Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N031-COM
Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established
with funds contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated October 24, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N031-COM
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 24, 1997, between ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE 
COMOROS (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) 
as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) 
established with funds contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to 
Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter dated April 26, 1997, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
and strengthen the development of its education sector (the Program), and declaring 
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and "Credit Account", 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement", "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account", 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
"15.
"Participating Country" means any country that meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as determined by 
the Administrator as of the date on which the Interim Fund Credit was approved 
pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and "Participating Countries" 
means, collectively, all such countries";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of 
the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
"Association" shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for 
a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time, 
the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit during the procurement or the execution 
of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate 
action 
satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, the Administrator may, by 
Page  3
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a person who is determined to be eligible for a 
Training Grant in terms of the eligibility criteria specified in the Procedures 
Manual, and for whose benefit a Training Grant as hereinafter defined is provided;
(b)
"Beneficiary Contract" means a contract referred to in paragraph 7 (f) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Convention" means a convention entered into under Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Convention;
(d)
"CNGEPE" means Centre National de Gestion et d’Exécution des Projets 
d’Education, the Borrower’s National Center for Implementation of Education Projects;
(e)
"Eligible Training Scheme Expenditures" means expenditures arising out of 
a Training Scheme as hereinafter defined, which are determined to be eligible for 
financing under a Training Grant in terms of criteria specified in the Procedures 
Manual;
(f)
"Franc Comorien" or "FC" means the currency of the Borrower;
(g)
"MOE" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
(h)
"OVT" means the Office of Vocational Training to be established by the 
Borrower and referred to in Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement and paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 thereto;
(i)
"Procedures Manual" means the Procedures Manual referred to in paragraph 
4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Procedures Manual;
(j)
"Project Account" means either or both of the accounts referred to in 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Manual;
(l)
"PMU" means Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to two letters of agreement, dated 
January 24, 1995 and January 8, 1997, respectively, addressed by the Association to 
the Borrower;
(n)
"Special Account" means either or both of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Training Grant" means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds 
of the Credit to a Beneficiary to finance a Training Scheme as hereinafter defined;
(p)
"Training Scheme" means a training scheme under Part B.2 (a) of the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million one hundred thousand 
Page  4
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to 
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Administrator 
shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a 
Beneficiary under a Training Grant to meet the reasonable cost of Eligible Training 
Scheme Expenditures, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain, in a commercial bank, and on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment, one special deposit account in Dollars 
(hereinafter referred to as Special Account A) for the purposes of Parts A and C of 
the Project, and another special deposit account in Dollars (hereinafter referred to 
as Special Account B) for the purposes of Part B of the Project. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or cancelled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2007 and ending 
May 1, 2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
Page  5
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. OVT is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under Part B of the 
Project and the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: 
(i)
shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project; and
(ii)
shall cause OVT to carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable OVT to carry out the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by 
OVT. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project, and shall cause OVT to carry out Part B 
of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
Page  6
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall 
conclude a convention with OVT (hereinafter referred to as the Convention), whereby it 
shall agree to transfer on a non-reimbursable basis to OVT an amount of the Interim 
Fund Credit not exceeding such amount as may be allocated from time to time to 
Categories (4) (b), (5) and (6) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, to be used generally for the purposes of Part B of the Project, and, in the 
case of the amount allocated to Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, to be used to establish a Vocational Training Fund, pursuant to 
Part B.2 (a) of the Project, to provide Training Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries to 
finance Training Schemes, on the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 7 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and on such other terms and conditions as shall be 
acceptable to the Administrator. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention, in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit; and, except as the Administrator 
shall otherwise  agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such 
Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05.  (a) Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank, and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, an account in Francs Comoriens 
(hereinafter referred to as Project Account A), to be operated and maintained by PMU, 
for purposes of Parts A and C of the Project, and another account in Francs Comoriens 
(hereinafter referred to as Project Account B), to be operated and maintained by OVT, 
for purposes of Part B of the Project, into which the Borrower shall deposit from time 
to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make an initial deposit of FC10 million into Project Account A, 
and FC3 million into Project Account B; and 
(ii)
thereafter in each semester deposit into each of the Project 
Accounts an amount equal to the amount of the initial deposit 
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, or such other 
amount as shall have been agreed between the Borrower and the 
Administrator. 
(c)
Funds deposited in the Project Accounts shall be applied solely for the 
purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the 
corresponding Parts of the Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account A, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  7
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause OVT to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of OVT.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause OVT to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements), 
including those for Special Account B, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, or 
three months after the end of each semester, as the case may be, 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause OVT:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound technical, administrative and financial practices, under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its equipment and other property, 
and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals 
Page  8
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative 
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association 
and the Administrator
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
OVT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations arising under or 
out of this Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that OVT will be able to perform its obligations arising 
under or out of this Agreement;
(d)
the statutes of OVT shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of OVT to 
perform any of its obligations arising under or out of this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of OVT, or for the suspension of 
the operations of OVT.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) and (e) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Project Implementation Manual and Procedures Manual have been duly 
approved by the Administrator, and adopted by the Borrower;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and 
accounting system, and a management information system to monitor performance 
indicators referred to in paragraph 4 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and 
selected auditors, pursuant to Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to audit 
the accounts of the Project in accordance with Article IV of this Agreement;
(c)
 OVT has been duly established, and the Convention signed and delivered 
on behalf of the Borrower and OVT;
(d)
the Project Accounts have been duly opened, and the amounts of the 
initial deposits deposited therein in accordance with Section 3.05 of this Agreement; 
and
(e)
the Project Coordinator and OVT Director, referred to in paragraphs 2 (b) 
and 3 (b), respectively, of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, shall have been duly 
recruited, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely, that the Convention has been 
Page  9
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and OVT, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and OVT in accordance with its terms. 
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date ten years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier.
Section 7.05.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the  
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances, du Budget et du Plan
B.P. 324
Moroni
Comores
Cable address: 
Telex:
245-MIEF-CAB K
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
By /s/ Mohamed Ali Soilihi 
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  1,660,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(2)
Equipment and
    720,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(3)
Purchase, production
    470,000
100% of foreign
and distribution of
expenditures and
textbooks and
95% of local
instructional
expenditures
materials
(4)
Consultants' services,
100%
training and audits:
(a) under Parts A
     220,000
and C of the Project
(b) under Part B of
     260,000
the Project
(5)
Training Grants
     290,000
100% of amounts of
Training Grants 
disbursed
(6)
Operating costs
90%
(a) under Parts A
     330,000
and C of the Project
(b) under Part B of
     260,000
the Project
(7)
Refunding of
     520,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
Page  11
(8)
Unallocated
     370,000
TOTAL
   5,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs  
incurred under the Project by PMU and OVT on account of (i) local contractual staff 
salaries, (ii) travel costs and allowances, (iii) maintenance of vehicles and 
equipment, (iv) banking charges, and (v) office rent, supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; or
(b)
in respect of a Training Grant, unless the Training Grant has been 
provided in accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to, in this Agreement and the Procedures Manual.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works 
and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, 
consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, 
Training Schemes under Beneficiary Contracts not exceeding $15,000 equivalent, 
operating costs and training, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the learning process at primary 
level through increased participation in quality education, and to establish an 
effective demand-driven training system to develop needed skills in the workplace.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvement of Primary Education
1.
(a)
Community Participation. Establishment of the legal framework for the 
creation of school committees to be responsible for schools construction and 
rehabilitation, as the case may be, maintenance of school facilities, collection and 
administration of user fees due in respect of texbooks, and budget administration.
(b)
Improved Infrastructure. Construction or rehabilitation of about 220 
classrooms located in the most under-privileged school districts of Ngazidja, Ndzouani 
and Mwali, and acquisition of furniture and equipment for such schools.
2.
(a)
Better Management Practices. Provision of technical advisory services, 
training and material support for the introduction of measures to rationalize the 
recruitment, selection and development of school heads, and for the development of 
basic management tools at the school level, including: (i) monthly timetables of 
school activities, (ii) attendance registers, (iii) student records, (iv) budget 
accounting procedures, (v) inventories of furniture, equipment and teaching-learning 
materials, (vi) notes of meetings, and (vii) sets of administrative circulars.
(b)
Teaching-Learning Materials. Acquisition of basic teaching-learning 
materials, and printing and photocopying equipment, development and implementation of 
training programs for the in-service training of teachers in the use of such 
materials, and training of local officials in the management of textbooks at the 
school level.
Page  12
(c)
Teaching-Learning Methods. Implementation of a program of teacher 
development activities designed to assist teachers to use a wide range of effective 
teaching-learning methods in classrooms, to prepare and conduct lessons, to manage 
time in the classrooms, to assign and mark homework, and to monitor pupils’ 
achievements.
(d)
Supervision Practices. Introduction of a contract mechanism for the 
effective delivery of a package of improved school inspection services, including: (i) 
two school inspection visits per year to each school, (ii) one annual performance 
assessment of school heads and teachers, (iii) guidance and leadership in the design 
of professional development activities, in close collaboration with school heads, with 
a view to linking such development activities to the curriculum and daily work of 
teachers, (iv) monitoring and evaluation of school-based training activities, and 
monitoring of feedback at school and classroom levels.
(e)
Learning Assessment and Education Information Systems. Implementation of 
measures to enhance institutional capacity in planning, monitoring, evaluating and 
informing decisions in key areas of learning assessment and effective use of public 
resources, including: (i) introduction of two national learning assessments at Grade 
6, (ii) implementation of a school map process to guide regional and local authorities 
in planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating investments and school 
operations, and (iii) production of annual performance monitoring reports.
Part B:
Improvement of Skilled Labor Training.
1.
Establishment of Vocational Training System. Establishment of the legal and 
institutional framework for the provision of vocational training, and strengthening of 
the capabilities of OVT through provision of technical advisory services, acquisition 
of materials and equipment, and rehabilitation of its physical facilities.
2.
(a)
Vocational Training Fund. Establishment of a Vocational Training Fund to 
provide grants to finance demand-driven training schemes responsive to the needs of 
the labor market, to be carried out by public and private institutions selected on a 
competitive basis and for the benefit of the formal and informal sectors in the 
territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Program Development and Instructor Training Unit. Provision of technical 
advisory services for the establishment of the Program Development and Instructor 
Training Unit of OVT, and the design of training modules, training of instructors in 
the delivery of such modules, and monitoring and evaluation of such training modules.
(c)
Institutional Development for Vocational Training Institutions. Provision 
of technical advisory services: (i) to carry out a study on the organization and 
functions of vocational training institutions, with a view to enhancing their 
performance, and enabling  them to participate in vocational training programs, 
according to a participatory approach with regard to vocational training; and (ii) to 
carry out a study on vocational training designed to increase the participation of 
employers in the training of their employees, assess the cost effectiveness of various 
ways of delivering training and recommend appropriate public financing mechanisms.
Part C:
Development of Effective Project Management
Rehabilitation of physical facilities of PMU, and provision of technical 
advisory services, and acquisition of equipment and materials required for the 
establishment of the PMU, development of management systems and procedures, production 
of reports, and monitoring and evaluation of the vocational training system referred 
to under Part B.1 of the Project, and follow-up of the Borrower’s education master 
plan.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Page  13
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the acquisition of equipment and 
vehicles shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, civil works 
under Parts B.1 and C, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $90,000 equivalent, and 
delivery of textbooks to schools under Part A (b), may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Reference and library books estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Civil works required for Part A.1 of the Project, up to an amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Administrator.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Civil works under Part A.1 estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an amount not to exceed $1,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
Page  14
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for Training Schemes follow-up and 
evaluation under Part B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for studies and training under Part A of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits under Parts A, B and C of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for studies and training under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services for studies and training under Parts A, B and C of the Project, which 
are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Administrator's prior agreement and subject to adequate justification, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
5.
Commercial Practices
Services to assist Beneficiaries in carrying out Training Schemes under Part B.2 
of the Project and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Administrator.
Page  15
6.
Individual Consultants
Services for studies and training under Parts A and B of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 but more than $50,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III:
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall designate the Centre National de Gestion et d’Exécution des 
Projets d’Education (CNGEPE) to be responsible, under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Administrator, for overall coordination of the Borrower’s strategy for the 
education sector and, as such, to provide overall policy and strategic guidance for 
the Project, and facilitate liaison between the Borrower, on the one hand, and the 
Administrator and other donor agencies involved in the education sector in the 
Borrower’s territory, on the other.
2.
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish a Project Management Unit (PMU), to be 
responsible for the coordination of the execution of Parts A and C of the Project, 
and, as such, to be responsible for: (i) coordination of procurement and disbursement 
activities, and preparation of annual and quarterly progress reports, audits under 
Article IV of this Agreement, and work plans and training programs, under Parts A and 
Page  16
C of the Project, (ii) supervision of contract negotiations pertaining to activities 
involving institutions and School Committees, (iii) coordination of activities 
requiring close collaboration with local authorities, and (iv) monitoring of the 
achievement of objectives of Parts A and C of the Project, and evaluation of the 
impact of actions and measures introduced on learning outcomes and student enrollment. 
(b)
The PMU shall consist of locally-recruited staff, whose qualifications 
and experience shall be acceptable to the Administrator, including: (i) a Project 
Coordinator, who shall be the head of the PMU, (ii) a financial manager, (iii) a 
procurement specialist, and (iv) one regional coordinator for each of the three 
islands comprised in the Borrower’s territory, to be responsible for planning, 
coordination, supervision and monitoring of activities of the Project.
3.
(a) 
The Borrower shall cause OVT to be responsible for the organization and 
management of vocational training, and the coordination of the execution of Part B of 
the Project, and, as such, to be responsible for coordination of procurement and 
disbursement activities, and preparation of annual and quarterly progress reports, 
audits under Article IV of this Agreement, and work plans and training programs, under 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
OVT shall be headed by a Director, having qualifications and experience 
acceptable to the Administrator, who shall report to a Board of Directors, comprising 
representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Education and Employment, as 
well as designated representatives of employers and employees, the Chamber of Commerce 
and village associations.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and transmit to the Administrator:
(i)
a Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Administrator, 
giving details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements, 
performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the 
Administrator for purposes of the Project, including model forms 
to be used for contracts to be concluded between PMU and the 
committees referred to under Part A.1 (a) of the Project, and for 
monitoring of progress achieved under the Project;
(ii)
a Procedures Manual, acceptable to the Administrator, giving 
details of all procedural arrangements for the preparation, 
approval and implementation of Training Schemes, including 
procedures for identification of Training Schemes and submission 
of requests for financing, criteria for the determination of 
eligible Beneficiaries and approval of Training Schemes, 
monitoring and evaluation processes, applicable procurement, 
disbursement and other implementation guidelines, and model forms 
of Beneficiary Contracts; and
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual and the Procedures Manual, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, 
if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Administrator, materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators referred to in 
paragraph 4 (a) (i) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with 
the Administrator and OVT, a joint annual review of the Project, during which they 
shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project 
and the performance by the Borrower and OVT of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement, including: 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower and OVT in the 
implementation of the Project, having regard to the performance 
indicators referred to in paragraphs 4 (a) (i) and 5 (a) of this 
Page  17
Schedule;
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year; 
(iii)
a review of the public expenditure program for the education 
sector, including the adequacy of budgetary support provided under 
the Project during the current year and proposed budgetary 
allocations for the forthcoming fiscal year; and
(iv)
the performance of Beneficiaries in the implementation of Training 
Schemes;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Administrator, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, of 
the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause OVT to take, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy 
any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or cause 
OVT to implement, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties 
in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 of each year, submit to the 
Administrator, for review and approval, proposed annual work plans and budget for the 
forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations and 
disbursement estimates, proposed procurement activities, and such other particulars as 
the Administrator may require.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Administrator, for review,
(i) 
not later than one month after the end of each quarter, quarterly 
progress reports on the status of the Project; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the Project.
7.
Further to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit provided for the establishment of the Vocational Training Fund under Part B.2 
(a) shall be subject to the following additional terms and conditions:
(a)
the amount so provided shall be used exclusively to provide Training 
Grants to finance Training Schemes, in accordance with criteria, and terms and 
conditions, set forth in the Procedures Manual;
(b)
applications for Training Grants in excess of $15,000, as well as the 
first three applications to be submitted to OVT for approval, irrespective of amounts 
involved, shall be submitted to the Administrator for prior review and approval;
(c)
the amount of each Training Grant shall be determined according to a 
cost-sharing formula, which shall be acceptable to the Administrator and specified in 
the Procedures Manual; provided, however, that: 
(i)
the proceeds of a Training Grant shall not be used to finance 
taxes or duties levied on or in respect of Eligible Training 
Scheme Expenditures, or any part thereof; 
(ii)
the amount of each Training Grant shall not exceed 90 percent of 
the cost of the Training Scheme; and
(iii)
except as the Administrator may otherwise agree, Training Grants 
provided in respect of a single Beneficiary shall not exceed: (a) 
a cumulative total of $50,000 equivalent; or (b) in the case of a 
single Training Scheme, an amount of $15,000 equivalent;  and
(d)
goods, services and civil works required for the purposes of financing 
Training Schemes shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Administrator, and set forth in the Procedures Manual;
(e)
for purposes of each Training Grant, OVT shall conclude a contract with 
the Beneficiary in the form of the model form provided in the Procedures Manual 
(hereinafter called Beneficiary Contract), setting forth the respective obligations of 
Page  18
the parties thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement 
procedures, the amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of the Training 
Scheme, details of cost recovery arrangements, if any, and the right of OVT to:
(i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Training Scheme with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, and managerial standards and practices, and to maintain 
adequate records;
(ii)
obtain all such information as the Administrator or the Borrower 
shall reasonably request relating to the implementation of the 
Training Scheme and the performance of the Beneficiary thereunder; 
and 
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of 
the proceeds of a Training Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary 
to perform its obligations under such contract.
8.
For purposes of civil works under the Project, the Borrower shall take adequate 
steps to ensure that such works shall be undertaken with due regard to the need for 
adequate safeguards for the protection of the environment, and that adequate 
provisions to that effect are included in the relevant works contracts.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A, 
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) (a) and (6) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in the case of Special account B, Categories (4) 
(b), 5 and (6) (b) set forth in the said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Training Grants, to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, and in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $350,000, 
in the case of Special Account A, and $150,000, in the case of Special Account B, to 
be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree:
(i)
the Authorized Allocation for Special Account A shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $175,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account allocated to the 
corresponding Categories specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph in respect of Special Account A, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
for Parts A and C of the Project, shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR1,000,000;
(ii)
the Authorized Allocation for Special account B shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $75,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account allocated to the 
corresponding Categories specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph in respect of Special Account B, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
for Part B of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR300,000.
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  19
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) and 4.02 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the corresponding Parts of the Project 
specified in respect of that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, 
Page  20
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in either of the Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
