Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22297
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-33410; SCL-45460)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$251.3 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH FISCAL REFORM & PUBLIC SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
06/21/2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs.1 = US$ 0.02134
US$ 1 = Rs.46.86
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
C&AG         Comptroller & Auditor General
DECRG        Development Research Group
GSDP         Gross State Domestic Profit
HIPCs        Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HPDE         High Priority Development Expenditures
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MTEF         Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
O&M          Operation and Maintenance
PRIs         Panchayat Raj Institutions
PSMS         Poverty and Social Impact Monitoring System
SMEs         Small and Medium-scale Enterprises
TTD          Trade Tax Department
UP           Uttar Pradesh
UPFRPSR      Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring
VAT          Value Added Tax
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Roberto Zagha
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Manuela Ferro and V.J. Ravishankar



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH FISCAL REFORM & PUBLIC SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  11
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                            26
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Framne Matrix                                 28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  34
Annex 8. Overview of Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Program             35
Annex 9. Reform Output/Process/Outcome Indicators - Fiscal Reforms                     40
Annex 10. Reforrn Output/Process/Outcome Indicators - Governance Reforms               42
Annex 11. Poverty and Social Impact Indicators: Table 1                                49
Annex 12. Poverty and Social Impact Indicators - Table 2                               54
Annex 13. Background and Task Team                                                     59
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P065471                                       Project Name: UTTAR PRADESH FISCAL
REFORM & PUBLIC SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
Team Leader: Manuela V. Ferro                             TL Unit. SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: UTTAR PRADESH FISCAL REFORM & PUBLIC LIC/TF Number: IDA-33410;
SECTOR RESTRUCTURING                                          SCL-45460
Country/Department. INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: BY - Other Public Sector Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/22/1999                               Effective. 05/23/2000         05/23/2000
Appraisal:  11/04/1999                                MTR:
Approval:  04/25/2000                               Closinig:  10/30/2000        10/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Govemment of India/Govemment of Uttar Pradesh; Government of India/Office
of the Chief Secretary and Departments of Finance; Government of
India/Planning; Government of India/Personnel and Administrative Reforms
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:     Edwin Lim                                  Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:      Roberto Zagha                              Roberto Zagha
Team Leader at ICR:   M. Ferro and V.J. Ravishankar             S. Fardoust and V.J. Ravishankar
ICR Primary Author:
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substanfial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background. Around 8 % of the world's poor live in Uttar Pradesh (UP). With around 160 million
inhabitants, UP is India's most populous state and one of the poorest. By the mid-1990s, while India's growth had
accelerated, economic and social development in UP was falling behind. Per capita income in UP, US$230 in
1997, was the third lowest amongst the country's 28 states, ahead only of the states of Bihar and Orissa and only
65% of India's average. In other (non-income) dimensions of poverty, such as literacy and infant mortality rates,
UP was also well behind most other Indian states, ranking second to fourth from last out of the 14 major states.
Uttar Pradesh plays an important role in Indian national politics and the state provides over 15 % of the
members of the national Parliament. UP is a politically unstable state, which over the past decade has been ruled
by short-lived, coalition governments (nine between 1988 and 1998). Some of the political instability is linked to
the deep social stratification of UP's population, and efforts on the part of various groups, particularly those from
lower social strata, to use political power to improve economic and social well-being.
World Bank Assistance Strategy to Uttar Pradesh. The Bank has assisted the State of UP with
technical and financial assistance since the mid- 1990s. Early dialogue focused mostly on the power sector.
Largely as a result of the state's political instability, the state govemment did not seek to deepen and broaden this
dialogue until the late 1 990s. After a decade of frequent changes in government, a coalition government led by the
BJP took office in late 1997. A core of reform-minded officials assumed key positions in the administration and
invited the Bank to collaborate in the formulation and implementation of economic reforms to enable UP to
extricate itself out of the mediocre performance of the past decade. The Bank recognized this as an opportunity to
support the turnaround of the state, with benefits not only for the people of UP, but potential demonstration effects
for all of India.
Support to reforming states was at the heart of the 1998 Bank's Country Assistance Strategy to India. The
Indian constitution gives the states considerable autonomy to define their development policies, including those
influencing education, health, power, agriculture and irrigation, water, road transport, and urban services. The
1999 Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report highlighted the need to devote substantial attention and
resources to Uttar Pradesh and to develop a multi-year, policy-based lending program, with the overarching goal of
reducing poverty. [World Bank, India: Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report, January 27, 1999.]
An innovative aspect of the Bank's involvement in UP was the development of a State Assistance Strategy
for Uttar Pradesh, which outlined the objectives and the content of the Bank's program of assistance to the state.
[World Bank, India: Uttar Pradesh State Assistance Strategy - Revitalizing Government to Reduce Poverty,
October 1999.] According to the strategy, Bank assistance would be based on four main principles: (i) support
should be large enough to have an impact on this poor, heavily populated state; (ii) the Bank would assist the
Govemment of Uttar Pradesh in developing, articulating, and implementing its own policies; (iii) Bank support
would be integrated: different lending and non-lending instruments would be used to develop an integrated and
cohesive package of assistance to the state; and (iv) Bank support would be sequenced, to take into account the
difficult initial conditions in UP and the possibility of delays in reform implementation. The design and
sequencing of lending instruments were selected to manage risks, while encouraging and supporting reforms in
UP.
Program and Loan/Credit Design: The UP reform program was based on collaborative, GoUP and
World Bank technical work. In 1998, the GoUP initiated a public debate with the issuance of a White Paper
highlighting the state's fiscal stress, potential debt trap and deteriorating economic performance. At the same
time, the Government approached the Bank for assistance in formulating and implementing an economic
restructuring program to lift itself out of the crisis. A World Bank economic report, India-Uttar Pradesh: From
Crisis to Renewed Growth, later published in Hindi by the GoUP, identified three factors as holding down growth
and poverty reduction in UP. First, inadequate infrastructure in general, but in particular shortages and
unreliability in power supply, affected investment and growth in agriculture and industry adversely. Second, due to
years of inadequate and ineffective spending on education and health, development of human resources lagged,
- 2 -



contributing to low living standards and lowering both productivity and incentives for private investment in the
state. Third, a decline in the quality of governance had raised transactions costs in the economy, and negatively
affected the business environment and the perception of businesses and external donors about investing in the
future of Uttar Pradesh. The report portrayed UP as being caught in a vicious circle, with low growth not only
holding living standards down, but also reducing GoUP's revenue yields, and the fiscal crisis preventing the state
from investing enough to provide the foundation for higher growth and improved social indicators. Governance
and fiscal reforms, complemented with reforms and investments in infrastructure (such as power) and the social
sectors, were identified as the core of the Government's reform program.
Key reforms in the power sector, including the necessary reform legislation and the unbundling of the
state power monopoly into generation, transmission and distribution companies, were a key trigger for the Bank's
strategy of assistance to UP. The GoUP passed the reform legislation and unbundled the State Electricity Board in
January 2000 and brought to an end a 1 -day strike by 88,000 power sector employees, without any concessions on
policy matters, thereby advancing in this important sector.
Both the 1998 Report and the loan/credit documentation rightly recognized that World Bank assistance to
UP was high-risk, but also high-return. The main risks emanate from low administrative capacity, political
instability, uncertainty surrounding the pace of reform in the power sector and resumption of economic growth.
The potential benefits include a potentially strong impact on poverty and on India's fiscal correction, both direct
and indirectly through the demonstration effect that success of reforms in UP would have on other states. The Uttar
Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring credit/loan was the first of a potential series of 3 to 4
adjustment operations aimed at supporting the GoUP's multi-year reform program to break out of this vicious
circle. This would provide some degree of assurance about the level of financial assistance the Bank could provide
to support the multi-year reform program. However, due to the absence of a track record and the uncertainties of
the political situation, policy actions within each phase were designed to be implemented before Board approval of
each operation. This approach created the conditions for a long-term engagement, while providing the Bank with
a very clear exit strategy.
Loan/Credit Objectives: The agenda of reforms and the goals supported by the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal
Reform and Public Sector Restructuring credit/loan are comprehensive and appropriate. The objective of the first
operation was to support the launch of a program of needed fiscal and governance reforms. It also supported the
establishment of a poverty and social monitoring system. The medium-term objectives of the reform program are
listed below in Table 1; the specific reform measures supported by the UPFRPSR credit/loan are listed in Annex 8
(Overview of Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Program, 1999-2004).
- 3 -



Table 1. Goals of the Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Program in Uttar Pradesh, 1999-2004
Reforn Areas                                             Stated 1999-2004 Program Goals
1 MDC& A&WS
Achieve Fiscal Sustiinability                           Achieve substanbal reducton in fiscal deficit and create sufficient fiscal space for
adequate levels of development outays and a gradual decline in the debt-to-GSDP
and interest-to-revenue rabos.
Improve Expenditure Management and Composibon of    Improved budget compliance and fiscal discipline; Improved poverty targetng and
Public Spending to enhance Development Impact            developmental impact of govemment spending; Expenditure composition linked to
policy priorities.
Increase in the rate of recovery of recurring cost of canal irrigafion - from less than
20% currently to 50% by 2003-04.
Reform Tax System to Improve Efficiency in Resource      Improved voluntary tax compliance; Reduced transactions costs for private business
Allocation and Enhance Tax payer Compliance              operating in UP; Increase in the State's Own Tax Revenue - from 5.4% GSDP in
1998-99 to 7.6% by 2003-04.
L GOLER#A"REF"S
Reform the Civil Service to Enhance Efficiency,          Substantial reducton in the number of departments towards international norms;
Effectveness and Productivity and Reduce Overhead        Significant improvement in the rato of front-line staff vis-a-vis support and
Costs                                                    administrative staff; Significant increase in the number of functions that are privatized
and/or commercialized; Improved staffing in key skill categores.
Implement Anti-Corruption and Deregulaton Strategies   Increased awareness and utilization of Lok Ayukta function by the public and
to Reduce Corruption and Maladministration, as well as   Vigilance Establishment by civil service; Radical reduction (more than 500%) in
Administrative Burden on the State                       average investigabon time; Improved sancton and convicton rate; Stakeholder
surveys indicate decreasing perceptions of corruption.
Implement Fiscal Decentralization to Enhance
Beneficiary and Stakeholder Participation and Income     Enhanced beneficiary & stakeholder participation in overseeing government
Accountability                                           performance; Improved quality of social services and infrastructure maintenance in
the rural areas; Increased public accountability.
Reform Public Enterprises and Privatize to Reduce        Reducton in fiscal drain due to public enterpnses; Release of assets to private
Scope of Govemment, Reduce Fiscal Burden and             owners; Reorientation of govemment role.
Improve Economic Performance
Modemize Financial Managenent & Control Architecture   Improved quality of financial information available to the public; Improved and bmely
and Enhance Accountability to Promote a more Honest,     information for financial management; Computerized performance recording and
Efficient and Answerable Govemment                       result-based management; Effectve legislabve scrutny over financial management
by the Execubve.
5Z PORIEYAADSXomL EVWW
Track progress at reducing poverty and improving living conditons using a range of
indicators; measure the impacts of key reform measures on poor, vulnerable, and
socially-excluded; based on this information, identify factors responsible for adverse
outcomes and design appropriate mitigabon measures, also improve impacts of
policies on the poor.
Over the medium term, the objectives of the fiscal reforms are to improve fiscal balances and to create
additional fiscal space for well-targeted public expenditures in priority programs, including quantitative and
qualitative improvement in social sector and infrastructure spending, and relieving infrastructure bottlenecks,
particularly power shortages and the road network, in order to accelerate economic growth and expand
employment opportunities. The public sector restructuring reforms are intended to improve the quality of service
delivery by reorienting the role of govemment, by reforming the civil service, by reducing corruption through
improved transparency, deregulation and strengthening of anti-corruption institutions, by closing down, reforming
or privatizing public enterprises, and by improving financial management and accountability. Information
collected through the Poverty and Social Monitoring System would aid in identifying the emerging outcomes in the
program that impact on the poor, and suggest areas for mid-course correction or intensified efforts.
The overall reform program was explicitly linked to poverty reduction and based on indicators proposed
by the Govemment of UP. The Poverty and Social Monitoring System was developed with three broad objectives:
- 4 -



(i) to measure progress at reducing poverty and improving living conditions over the course of the state's reform
period, with a particular focus on identifying any adverse impacts linked to reform initiatives; (ii) to support better
performnance in the delivery of basic services; and (iii) to keep the public informed regarding the progress and
outcomes of reform measures. Poverty and social impact indicators (see Annex 11) focus on consumption and
income measures, employment rates, health and education indicators, participation in government programs,
awareness of health programs and social rights, access to and quality of facilities and services. While supported by
the UPFRPSR Credit/Loan, the Poverty and Social Monitoring System was not designed to monitor the outcomes
of specific actions implemented under the loan. It was recognized that it is impossible to establish causality
between reforms and outcomes. Instead, the system would aid in the tracking of key indicators reflecting overall
progress in UP's development and would be anchored in local institutions.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
Not applicable
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No applicable
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of Bank assistance under the UPFRPSR Credit/Loan were achieved. Performance in the
three areas supported by the UPFRPSR Credit/Loan was satisfactory. All the agreed reform measures were
implemented prior to approval and disbursement of the operation, by design; the GoUP also has continued to
implement the reform measures in the second year, following disbursement of the credit/loan, as originally
envisaged in the multi-year program.. No reform measures explicitly supported by the operation were reversed. As
envisaged, the operation also has helped the GoUP launch a medium-term program of fiscal and governance
reforms While there have been shortcomings in program implementation since disbursement took place, these
have been relatively few and mostly in the nature of slower than desired pace of progress. [For a more detailed
review of component implementation, please see attached Aide Memoire of the ICR mission, as well as the Matrix
of Reform Output/Process/Outcome Indicators on Fiscal, Governance, and Poverty and Social Impact indicators
attached as 4nnex I.] There are indications that the UPFRPSR operation has also had a broader impact in the
form of helping the Government of India to strengthen rules-based mechanisms of resource transfers to encourage
improved fiscal management at the state level.
The fiscal and govemance reforms initiated in 1999-00 and supported by the UPFRPSR Credit/Loan have
led already to an improvement in the state's fiscal performance and first steps in reversing the situation of
deteriorating govemance have been taken. The trend of fiscal deterioration and widening budget deficits,
witnessed especially during 1996-99, has been arrested and begun to be reversed. Reforms were further advanced
in 2000-01. The fiscal deficit of GoUP has declined for two consecutive years, from a peak of 7.5% of GSDP in
1998-99 to an estimated 6.0% in 2000-01 [refers to the estimatedfiscal deficit of undivided UP in 2000-01, ie.,
including the newly created state of Uttaranchal, consisting of about 5% of the population and 6% of income of
the erstwhile Uttar Pradesh], i.e., achieving a correction of 1.5 percentage points over two years. [In order to
maintain consistency with the historical series and the ratios quoted in the Medium-Term Fiscal Framework of the
reform program, all ratios to GSDP in this ICR have been calculated with respect to the 1980-81 GSDP series,
and not the 1993-94-base GSDP series. ] The consolidated fiscal deficit (of the govemment and power utility
combined) is estimated to have declined by 1 percentage point of GSDP in the same period.
- 5 -



It is difficult to assess the specific impact of this operation on economic performance and poverty
reduction, as it was part of a wider reform agenda and supported only the first year of implementation of a
multi-year program. Economic growth has accelerated during 1999-00 and 2000-01, compared to the average
performance in the 1990s. However, causality between the measures supported by this operation and aggregate
economic performance cannot be argued. A large part of the growth acceleration is likely to be explained by
factors unrelated to the implementation of reforms, such as improved agricultural output thanks to good rainfall.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Fiscal Reforms. Substantial progress was achieved in this first stage of the multi-year program, as evidenced by
UP's improved fiscal outcomes in 1999/00 and estimates for 2000/01. According to audited accounts published by
the Comptroller & Auditor General (C&AG) of India for the year 1999-00, the majority of key fiscal indicators in
UP recorded significant improvement (Table 2). The targeted fiscal correction - a planned reduction in the overall
fiscal deficit by 0.5% of GSDP- was more than accomplished, with the overall deficit declining from 7.5% of
GSDP in 1998-99, to 6.4% of GSDP in 1999-00.
Part of the correction, however, was dictated by a financing shortfall that became known only towards the
end of the 1999-00 fiscal year and led to a larger-than-expected expenditure contraction. The GoUP Budget for
1999-00 was formulated assuming that the proceeds of the UPFRPSR Credit/Loan would reach UP in that fiscal
year (India's fiscal year starts April 1 and ends March 31); it later became clear that this was not a realistic
assumption, and indeed the proceeds of the operation reached UP only in June 2000; while GoI was expected to
make up for the temporary cash crunch with some compensatory short-term financing, such compensation fell
short of expectations as the fiscal year came to a close.
The quality of fiscal correction has been good during 1999-2001, both compared to other Indian states and
to UP's own past. Expenditure composition has started to improve, as envisaged under the operation. However,
deeper improvements in the composition and quality of public expenditures will take more than one year to
materialize and will require deeper public expenditure management reforms in UP, which were envisaged under
the multi-year program of reforms.
The ratio of Revenue Deficit to Revenue Receipts, an indicator currently being used by GoI to monitor the
fiscal performance of states, has declined steadily over the first 2 years of the reform program, from a peak level of
47% in 1998-99. It declined to 29% in 1999-00 and an estimated 17% in 2000-01. The Budget for 2001-02,
presented by the GoUP in March 2001, projects this ratio to decline further to 9% in the coming year.
-6 -



Table 2: UP Government Finances, 1995-2000101
Percentage of GSDP /a             1995-98    1998/99   1999/00   1999/00   2000/01    2000/01
Average               Target    Actual    Target   Estimated
Revenue                                 13.9      11.6       13.5      13.1       14.8      15.8
State's Own Revenue                     6.7       6.2        6.9       6.6       7.3        7.3
Tax                                    5.4       5.4        6.2       5.8       6.5        6.3
Non-Tax                                1.2       0.8       0.7        0.7       0.9        0.9
Central Resources                       7.2       5.5        6.6       6.5        7.5       8.5
Mandated Tax Share                     5.3       3.9        4.4       4.6       4.7        5.9
Grants                                 2.0       1.5       2.2        1.9       2.8        2.6
Expenditure and Net Lending             21.0      19.1       20.5      19.5      20.8       21.8
of wtich.
Interest                               3.3       4.0       4.2        4.1       4.2        4.9
Salares                                4.4       4.6        4.6       4.5       4.6        4.8
Pensions                               0.9       1.2        1.3       1.3       1.2        1.3
Major Non-Merit Subsidies (explicit)   2.9       1.4        1.2       1.5       1.0        1.5
High Priority O&M                      0.9       0.5       0.7        0.8       0.9        0.9
Capital Outlays                        1.2       1.4        1.4       1.6       1.7        1.8
Revenue Deficit                         -4.9      -5.4       -4.5      -4.1       -2.8      -3.0
Overall Fiscal Deficit                  -7.2      -7.5       -7.0      -6.4       -6.0      -6.0
Non - Power Deficit                     -6.4       -6.7      -6.0      -5.8      -4.6        -4.6
Memo Ites:
Debtstock                                        507.68   603.36    604.04    715.69       717.20
Debt Stock I GSDP                                 34.7%    37.3%     37.4%      40.3%       41.7%
GSDP Annual Real Growth /b                         3.3%     3.3%      5.7%       3.6%        4.7%
Interest / Revenue                                34.6%    30.8%     31.0%      28.2%       31.0%
Revenue Deficit / Revenue Receipts                46.7%    33.3%     31.2%      19.0%       18.9%
la The denominator has been adjusted downwards in 200001, to account for the creaton of Uttaranchal state in November 2000.
lb GSDP is 1980-81 base, exceptfor years 1999/00 and 2000/01 (1993-94 based series)
Sou're: Govemment of Uttar Pradesh.
There have also been significant improvements in budgetary and accounting practices in UP. As part of
the first phase of the program, the GoUP put an end to the practice of spending departments or project directors to
deposit unspent funds into "personal ledger accounts" at the end of the year, a practice that led to overstatement of
expenditures and deficit financing, and weakened expenditure management and control. The Government also
reclassified expenditure on operation and maintenance of roads and canal irrigation systems, to exclude payments
to "workcharged" employees, so that the true non-wage O&M could be monitored. Initial steps have been taken to
move towards regularly monitoring the consolidated deficit of the public sector, such as agreeing on a ceiling for
guarantees issued to state-owned enterprises for their borrowing from the market (with the exception of only
guarantees that may be required to support the financial restructuring of the power sector). Although the
Non-Power Deficit was monitored and targeted in the initial years of the program, due to the uncertainty
surrounding the fiscal costs of power sector restructuring, subsequent steps in the program envisaged monitoring
the Overall Deficit. In particular, the key medium-term targets were set in terms of reducing the overall fiscal
deficit, including budget support to power (see Annex 8, Overview of Fiscal Reform and Public Sector
Restructuring Program, 1999-2004).
Revenues. Revenue performance improved, although by less than targeted. As a result of the reforms
- 7 -



implemented in tax policy and administration, the state's tax-to-GSDP ratio, which had stagnated at 5.4% of
GSDP during 1996-99, increased to 5.8% in 1999-00. It increased further to an estimated 6.3% in 2000-0 1.
Overall, the tax revenues raised by the GoUP increased by about 15% in real terms in 1999-00, compared to an
average of 13.5% for all the major states. Sales tax revenue increased by 12% in real terms in 1999-00, and by
about 15% in the first 9 months of 2000-01.
The GoUP eliminated sales tax holidays and deferral schemes for new investment and introduced uniform
floor rates, in compliance with the agreement reached among all states and Gol in January 2000. Sales tax rates
have been further rationalized in UP during January 2001, reducing the total number of rates from 1 1 main and 6
special rates to 8 main and 4 special rates. The GoUP is implementing this program of rate rationalization in a
phased manner, based on advice from a professional tax policy consultant. While the pace of progress towards
reducing the number of rates to 5 (plus at most 2 special rates) has been slower than envisaged under the program,
progress has nevertheless been steady and in the right direction.
Administrative improvements in Trade Tax have been significant under this operation. A computerized
system for administering this tax has been tested for acceptance and is being piloted in 3 selected zones. The
annual turnover limit for self-assessment has been raised and as a result, 92% of the tax payers are now covered by
the scheme of self-assessment. Deterrence against tax evasion has been strengthened as a result of criminal
proceedings initiated by the Trade Tax Department (TTD) against fraudulent practices. The process and
intermediate output indicators (Annex 9) suggest that constant and consistent pressure against tax evasion has led
to increased compliance, especially among manufacturers within UP.
The rise in the tax ratio has thus been achieved through a combination of rate rationalization and
administrative improvements aimed at reducing evasion and improving compliance. However, while much of the
emphasis of administrative reforms has been focused so far on curtailing tax evasion by strengthening deterrence,
greater emphasis should be placed on lowering compliance costs and lowering the statutory tax burden. The fact
that significant increases in tax collections were sought in the short-run limited the scope for greater tax rate
rationalization and other reforms that, while likely to yield higher revenues in the medium run with a lesser
distortionary impact than current policies, risked yielding lower revenues in the short run.
There was one tax reform measure aimed at curbing under-valuation of goods brought into UP from
outside, initiated in 1999-00, whose implementation was held up in 2000-01. Following opposition from wholesale
traders in the state, on the grounds that this measure would increase the scope for taxpayer harassment, the GoUP
is now considering a modified plan and a phased implementation.
Expenditure. The main thrust of restructuring expenditure composition in 1999-00 and 2000-01 consisted
of (i) containment of salary bill and pensions; (ii) containment and reduction of subsidies; and (iii) enhancement
and protection against budget cuts of High Priority Development Expenditures (HPDE). While attempts to contain
salaries and pension payments and to protect HPDE have been generally satisfactory, with relatively minor
shortfalls, attempts to reduce subsidies have had only limited success. Transfers to the power sector were lower
than expected, mostly as a result of a slow down in the pace of reform in the sector.
Salary (of regular staff) and pension payments were contained at 5.8% of GSDP in 1999-00, at the same
level as the previous year and in line with the program target. However, the ratio rose to an estimated 6.1% in
2000-01, a slippage of 0.3 percentage point compared to the program target. This was the combined result of two
factors: (i) the impact of the separation of the state of Uttaranchal, including transitional costs and (ii) the impact
of accepting the demand of school teachers for enhancement in their pay package. The first factor was beyond the
state's control; even though a separate state was created in November 2000, the bulk of the salary bill continued to
be borne by the mother entity for almost the whole fiscal year due to delays in transferring staff to the new state.
The second factor was a slippage on the part of the GoUP, resulting from yielding to political pressures during a
year when the state was perceived to be relatively cash rich due to unexpectedly large transfers from Gol, resulting
from the award of the Eleventh Finance Commission.
Although some implicit subsidies have been reduced through higher user charge hikes, the attempt to cap
- 8 -



explicit budgetary subsidies to higher and secondary education (i.e. grants to govemment aided private institutions)
at their 1998-99 level has not been successful. One of the main reasons why the Finance Department could not
succeed in imposing a hard budget constraint on govemment aided privately managed educational institutions is
that such institutions are highly constrained in the fees that they can charge. However, available information is
insufficient to demonstrate that such caps would have been desirable. Whether to contain this subsidy and what
level to do so requires a better understanding of the education market, of potential fiscal and social impacts of
deregulation of the fee structure and of institutional issues in the sector.
In spite of the financing shortfall in 1999-00, the GoUP managed to protect a large part of the
expenditures on high priority social services (97% of target) and physical infrastructure (89%). [High priority
social sector spending refers to elementary education, health excluding medical education subsidy, anti-poverty
programs, devolution to rural local bodies and separation payments to workers in public enterprises that have
been closed. High priority infrastructure spending refers to capital outlays and non-wage O&M in roads and
irrigation.] This is an improvement in the funding of such programs relative to the past, when the impact of a
resource shortage fell disproportionately on many of these developmental components of the budget. The main
shortfall, as mentioned above, was on support to the power sector. A Special Audit of High Priority Development
Expenditures agreed upon as part of the UPFRPSR operation was carried out by the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India (C&AG) and delivered to the Bank on June 20, 2001.
The UPFRPSR Credit/Loan may have placed too strong an emphasis on the definition and requirement of
a special audit of High Priority Development Expenditures within the budget. This was due partly to the fact that
concems about UP's poor governance led to strong safeguards against financial and fiduciary misuse. [According
to the minutes of the Operations Committee review for this operation (held shortly after fiduciary problems
emerged on Bank operations in Russia), the Bank team was advised to strengthen fiduciary safeguards in the
UPFRPSR Credit/Loan.] However, these financial safeguards must be balanced against the need to strengthen
the state's own budgetary procedures. While the effort to protect and enhance HPDE enabled the GoUP to begin
improving its expenditure composition from the first year of the program, the level of detail adopted in specifying
these expenditures and auditing them contradicts efforts to develop an effective government budget system. It has
tended to create a "budget within a budget". Concems about transparency and audit/certification of specific subsets
of expenditure could be better addressed through improving the government's general financial reporting and
audit, rather than through a special audit conducted at the Bank's request. This issue arises also in Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries, which often also have poor budget processes. [International Monetary Fund and
International Development Association, Tracking of Poverth'-Reducing Public Spending in Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPCs), March 27, 2001.] In India, there is also the further complication that a "special audit" carries
the connotation of going after some specific misappropriation or corruption scandal.
Since 1999 the Department of Finance has continued to encourage fiscal responsibility and discipline in
the state govemment. The Finance Minister has personally attended a series of public consultations held in major
towns all over UP, to discuss ways to cut wasteful public spending and improve revenue performance. In the recent
Budget for 2001-02, presented to the UP Legislature on March 23, 2001, the Finance Minister has announced the
establishment of a Resource and Expenditure Commission to lead a comprehensive review and rationalization of
spending programs and to strengthen resource mobilization efforts.
Governance Reforms. Govemance reforms explicitly supported under the operation were satisfactorily
implemented. While governance reforms, by their very nature, take considerably longer than a year or two to bear
fruit, there are nevertheless a number of achievements that are creditable, especially given the initial conditions of
UP. The target of abolishing 10,000 vacant positions was met in 1999-00; subsequently, the GoUP went beyond
this target and a further 5,000 were abolished during the first half of 2000-01. The first phase of GoUP's public
enterprise reform and privatization policy has been implemented; 20 public enterprise units have been closed since
the program was initiated; about 11,000 employees have left with VRS packages. Transparency of information and
accessibility to official forms have improved significantly, with 16 major departments, 31 agencies and 17
educational institutions/universities hosting interactive websites where official forms can be downloaded and
complaints may be communicated online.
-9-



However, progress in program implementation (beyond the reforms supported under the UPFRPSR
loan/credit) has been slower than expected, partly as a result of weak implementation capacity and the ambitious
scope and pace of the governance agenda. No governance reform measures were reversed after approval of the
operation, and the GoUP has continued to implement reforms in 2000-01, partly with support from the Bank's
Technical Assistance operation to India. Certain aspects of govemance reforms, such as Civil Service Reform,
have only been initiated, and will need to be furthered if they are to bear fruit. There have been visible gains in (i)
public access to information and official forms through the Intemet and (ii) activation and strengthening of
accountability and anti-corruption institutions.
Progress in dealing with the problem of transfers has been limited. Although a consultative mechanism
was established and the annual Transfer Policy was placed on the web, as part of the program, premature transfers
remained high during 1999-00 and early 2000-01. The situation improved after September 2000. However, in the
absence of effective systemic safeguards, the danger remains that transfers may once again become problematic
with a change in political leadership.
By the very nature of the problem, it is difficult to say whether corruption has declined or not. However,
the GoUP has started stepping up publicly its fight against corruption. The number of corruption related cases in
which prosecution was approved increased to 375 during April-December 2000, compared to around 100 in the
same period of the previous year. There were 44 "trap" cases during the year 2000, involving 49 officials who
were caught red handed, for the first time in many years. The budget allocations for the Vigilance Establishment
and the Lok Ayukta (Ombudsman) has begun to increase. The role and functions of Lok Ayukta are being given
wide publicity. The GoUP has formally tabled pending reports of the Lok Ayukta in the State Assembly. Heads of
departments have been designated as Chief Vigilance Officers in an attempt to strengthen accountability for
corruption free services.
Attrition-based downsizing has resulted in a reported 2.5% reduction in the size of the civil service in UP.
However, the database on actual civil servants remains weak, so the reliability of quantitative measurements and
targets is limited; it is expected to become more reliable once payroll computerization and a civil service census
(expected within the coming year) are completed. Shortcomings in achieving targeted milestones under the
governance components of the multi-year program include: (i) delayed progress in conducting a reliable Civil
Service Census and inter-departmental functional review to achieve major rationalization in the number, size and
structure of departments; and (ii) delay in publicizing an Anti-Corruption Strategy that uses the results of the 3
surveys conducted in 1999-00 on public perceptions about corruption and service quality.
UP is the first Indian state to formally adopt a strategy for strengthening financial management and
accountability. It is ahead of most Indian states in treasury modernization, which lays the foundation for
modernization of the state's accounting and financial reporting. The treasury payment system has been
computerized; and most of the expenditure data is available in the system. The computerized payroll statements,
payment of salaries into employees' bank accounts directly by the Treasuries, and handling of all payroll-related
functions by the Treasury is expected to roll-out by June/July 2001. Progress on the public financial accountability
and management improvement program has been highly satisfactory in certain aspects, such as (i) adoption of
strategy, (ii) modemization of the treasury payments system and improved financial information for management,
(iii) strengthening legislative oversight (the Public Accounts Committee, which became dysfunctional during
1990-97, has been reactivated) and (iv) intemal audit. Progress has been slower than expected in the case of (a)
building implementation capacity in the Controller's Office (with a full-time Controller and qualified
finance/accounts professionals), (b) improving response to external audit and (c) preparing of departmental annual
reports.
Poverty & Social Impact Monitoring. As envisaged under the UPFRPSR operation, an independent
monitoring unit has been set up, originally under the Chief Secretary's office. Progress to date in further
implementing the UP PSMS has been good in some respects and slower than expected in others. There has been
progress in (i) strengthening of capacity of the Directorate of Economics and Statistics and (ii) implementing a
- 10 -



household survey, initiated by DES in 1999-00 and completed in 2000-01 - attached to the state-sample NSS 55th
round - being used to develop a baseline of key poverty and social indicators. Analysis of these data are currently
underway and a joint GoUPI World Bank report presenting and disseminating key findings is expected to be
produced shortly.
In other areas, however, progress has been slower than anticipated. Training, acquisition of equipment,
and hiring of specialized technical assistance has progressed more slowly than expected. The independent
monitoring capacity also has been transferred from the Chief Secretary's office to the Department of Planning,
which, while useful in terms of better linkages with the Directorate of Economics and Statistics (which is under
Planning), nonetheless makes coordination across government departments more difficult. Slower-than-envisaged
implementation has been due mostly to weak implementation capacity (also affected by frequent transfers of key
government officials) and difficulties in coordinating across different departments of government. In the future,
given that the baseline (1999-00) has been established, emphasis will need to be put on setting up additional
periodic surveys and district-level monitoring efforts to track changes in baseline indicators.
The UP poverty and social monitoring system was designed with a great deal of flexibility. The
presumption was that key decisions (e.g. on launching periodic monitoring surveys) would be finalized once the
previous step neared completion (e.g. completing and discussing a baseline survey). Given the magnitude of the
exercise involved in establishing the baseline, relatively less emphasis was placed on defining explicitly the
periodicity and subsequent data collection and dissemination activities. In retrospect, the specifics of the
monitoring system, in particular the periodicity, timetable, and institutional arrangements for the key data
collection and dissemination activities that form the structure of the system should have been agreed upon at the
outset.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Not applicable
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S.] Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not applicable
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Not applicable
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Ownership of the program by the political executive helped implementation of the reforms supported by
the operation . As evidence of political ownership of the reform program, the 5 key policy papers that underpin the
program were all approved by the Cabinet and tabled in the State Legislature in March 2000. Substantive fiscal
correction in the first year of the reform program, i.e., in 1999-00, as reflected in the official "revised estimates"
published in March 2000, provided additional evidence of govemment commitment to the reform program. Beyond
the specific reforms supported by the operation, however, the pace of implementation has been negatively affected
by changes in key personnel. For instance, a change at the top of the bureaucracy (necessitated by a promotion and
transfer to the Gol of the former Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary of Finance), about half way in the second
year of the program, had a significant negative impact on the pace of implementation of governance reforms. In
particular, the Governance Reform Task Force, that used to oversee the progress of all the different components of
the governance program, became temporarily inactive during the transition period, resulting in a certain loss of
- 11 -



momentum. This risk was anticipated in the design of the operation.
A second factor which affects overall program implementation is the nature and pace of progress with
power sector reforms. While the reforms envisaged as part of UP's fiscal and governance reform program have
succeeded in reducing the state govermment's budget deficit, slow progress with power sector reforms during
2000-01, which translates into higher quasi-fiscal pressures, has compromised some of the gains made in the
strictly fiscal area. Power sector reforrn in UP will be a long-haul endeavor, and as experience worldwide -- in
developing and developed countries alike -- demonstrates, the road ahead poses an enormous challenge, given the
very poor state of the sector, its size, the very strong trade-union movement, the low level of income of a majority
of electricity consumers, and the political economy of the sector in UP.
Finally, the separation of the hill districts into a separate state of Uttaranchal, with effect from November
2000, has necessitated the formulation of a revised Fiscal Framework for the reform program by the new state of
Uttar Pradesh minus Uttaranchal.
Linkages with other operations
The Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring credit/loan was a fundamental vehicle,
but not the only one, for World Bank support to UP (Table 3). A UP Power Sector Reform Project is assisting the
state to restructure the power sector. Recent assistance to UP includes five projects for US$700 million, one
Economic Report, and a forthcoming Poverty Assessment, which will highlight outstanding analytical issues and
guide the Bank in subsequent phases of our program of support. Investment projects under implementation include
the sectors of elementary education, primary and secondary health care, agriculture, forestry and rural drinking
water. Substantial financing for technical assistance is also being provided through the all-India Technical
Assistance for Economic Reforms Project, which is supporting governance and fiscal reforms in UP. Lending
volumes in future years will depend on the pace at which GoUP implements reforms as well as the successful
implementation of the projects being proposed.
Some important synergies have been achieved as a result of the Bank's comprehensive strategy of
assistance to UP through a diverse set of instruments. For instance, the publication of an overarching Policy Paper
on Civil Service Reforms has created an enabling environment to support the reform and re-engineering of
business processes in the Irrigation Department, as part of a program of reforms in the Water Sector.
- 12 -



Table 3: Related Bank Loans
Lo tei                                                         Purposs                                   Yeard        Sta
AWoval
UP Rural Water                   Deliver sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population and  1996   Ongoing
promote long-term sustainability of the rural water supply and sanitation
sector.
UP Forrsry                       Development of the forestry sector.                                      1997       Ongoing
UP DASP (Credit                  Increase agricultural producivity, to promote private sector development,  1998     Ongoing
UP DASP (Loan)                   and to improve rural infrastructure.                                     1998       Ongoing
UP Sodic Lands II                Increase agricultural productivity in ten disticts of Uttar Pradesh.     1998       Ongoing
UP Health Systems Development    Establish an appropriately managed Health Care System.                   2000       Ongoing
UP Power Sector Restructung      To support the initiation of the power sector reform process.            2000       Ongoing
mumP" _*b
Catarad Blindness Contro Project    Improve the Natonal Program for the Control of Blindness' (NPCB's) quality  1994  Ongoing
of service and expand its treatment capacity.
Coal Environ. & Social itgationMak   e coal production more environmentally and socialy sustainable.      1996       Ongoing
DPEP II                          Extend the District Primary Educaton Program (DPEP) into about 50 to 60  1996       Ongoing
new districts chosen from UP and the seven states already participatng in
the First Distict Pimary Educaton Project (DPEP I).
TA for States Roads              Reform provision, financing and maintenance of road infrastrucure.       1996       Ongoing
Tuberculosis Control             Revise strategy for Tuberculosis control with the goal d reducing mortaity,  1997   Ongoing
morbidity, and disability
Rural Women's Development        Strengthen processes that promote economic development of women and      1997       Ongding
create an environment for social change.
Women & Child Development        Improve the nutriton and health of pre-school-aged children and women, by  1998     Ongoing
increasing the quality, impact and costeffectveness of the Integrated Child
Development Services (ICDS) program
Watrshed Management Hils II      Improve productve potential.  five states, using evolving watershed      1999       Ongoing
treatment technologies and community partidpatory approaches.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
In spite of leadership changes (there have been two changes of Chief Ministers in UP since 1999), there
are encouraging signs that several of the reforms supported by the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reformn and Public Sector
Restructuring creditfloan will be sustained and in some areas furthered. GoUP has displayed a strong and
continued commitment to strengthen fiscal discipline and reduce the budget deficit. The Budget for 2001-02,
presented on March 22, 2001, suggests continued commitment to improve economic performance and fiscal health
of the state -- through concerted revenue enhancement efforts, institutional reforns and targeted investments in
major sectors, and improved expenditure management.
- 13-



However, medium-term sustainability of reforns is uncertain. Slow progress in power sector reforms, if
continued, could further increase actual and contingent liabilities on UP's budget. It could reverse the gains
achieved so far in fiscal consolidation. Progress in governance reforms in late 2000 and early 2001 has also been
slower than expected.
Sustainability of the reform process depends on greater political consensus and public support for the
program. The first major challenge to the sustainability of reforms in UP lies in achieving adequate progress in
structural reforms in key sectors that have a major impact on governance and fiscal performance, such as power
sector reforms. A second challenge is to communicate effectively to the public and muster support from those who
stand to gain from the success of reforms in UP. Such consensus and support are uncertain at the present time. It
should be noted, however, that this first operation provides a higher level of readiness to take up further reforms.
This is an achievement in itself, whose benefits will persist over a number of years in UP, with demonstration
effects for other states.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The project concept is consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy in India, viz.: to focus part of the Bank's resources on states that demonstrate willingness to
implement the reforms needed to improve economic performance and reduce poverty. It identified the window of
opportunity provided by reform minded administrations both at the national and state levels and encouraged a high
degree of leadership and participation by state officials and stakeholders in development of the reform package.
The Bank also correctly identified the need for fiscal and governance reforms, along with power sector reform, as
the twin backbones of its strategy of assistance to Uttar Pradesh. The choice of instrument, namely a one-tranche
adjustment operation with measures implemented upfront -within the context of the broader state assistance
strategy - was appropriate given the absence of a track record in UP and the uncertainties of the political situation.
This approach allowed the Bank to adjust the level and nature of support to the pace of reform in UP.
Recent research by the Bank's Development Research Group (DECRG) in collaboration with the
Confederation of Indian Industry suggests that the costs of doing business in UP are considerably higher than in
other states in India. These costs are likely to be relatively higher for small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs),
thus hampering their job creation potential and growth in the state. While the reform program needed to be
selective in choosing high priority areas for action, it was relatively weaker on this front and could have included
specific measures to improve the business environment and lower transactions costs for SMEs, for instance in
connection with the deregulation agenda.
Preparation and Appraisal: Satisfactory. The Bank's performance was satisfactory with respect to
operationalizing the technical aspects of the program and identifying a Matrix of Benchmarks/Policy Actions that
underpins the multi-year fiscal and governance reform program. The Bank team displayed flexibility in arriving at
a package of measures that was fully owned by the state government, while providing it with relevant cross-country
expertise.
However, the matrix of benchmarks and policy actions included an excessive number of measures, in
particular processing steps. Such a large number of measures or benchmarks, some of which of lesser importance,
led to the efforts of the reformers in the state as well as of Bank staff to get spread too thinly. A more strategic
design, with a greater focus on a smaller set of higher-payoff reform actions could allow for a more concentrated,
deeper dialogue on strategic reform areas. This is particularly important in the case of UP, where administrative
capacity is weak. Setting priorities (and sequencing) is difficult, especially when a rapid and visible turnaround is
desired, as was the case in UP. Still, realism about the govemment's implementation capacity -- both technical and
- 14 -



political -- requires that priorities be set. The measures that have had the most impact in bringing about the
desired outcomes include: (i) nominal rupee ceilings on the non-power fiscal deficit and on salary and pension
payments in the first year; (ii) protection of high-priority developmental expenditures; (iii) rationalization of sales
tax rates and tax holidays, (iv) amendment of the Motor Vehicles Tax Act to enable annual rate revisions, (v)
adoption and publication of Policy Paper on Civil Service Reform, (vi) establishment of a Divestment Commission
and an institutional framework for implementing the program of public enterprise reform and privatization and
(viii) adoption and publication of a Strategy Paper on strengthening Financial Management and Accountability.
7.2 Supervision:
Not applicable
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory based on the ratings for lending and outcomes.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory. Identifying the key constraints to growth and poverty reduction in UP, designing the
multi-year reform program, and implementing the first set of reforrns of this program required intense engagement
from the Government of UP, and support from the Government of India. Preparatory work involved extensive
collaboration from state government officials and academics in UP, starting with the 1998 GoUP White Paper and
the 1998 Economic Report produced in November 1998. Collaboration with the central government has developed
more recently, especially in the context of the UP Development Report being prepared by the Planning
Commission in New Delhi. Stronger support and leadership through example from the central government would
be needed to achieve significant progress in some areas, such as Civil Service Reform, where the states are served
by all-India cadres of senior bureaucrats.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Not applicable
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. All the key reform actions supported by the UPFRPSR CreditlLoan were implemented
prior to Board approval. While there have been delays in follow-up actions with respect to some of the actions,
there has been no reversal of policy.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Satisfactory based on the ratings for project preparation, implementation and outcomes.
8. Lessons Learned
*      Programmatic adjustment lending to selected states of India can be an effective instrument for
supportingfiscal reforms at the state level. Reforms will take several years to be effective and support
needs to be flexible enough to withstand the uncertainties of the political environment, but consistent
enough to build broad ownership for reforms. Support to the reform program can thus be modulated to the
nature and pace of reform implementation. The successful implementation of the UPFRPSR Credit/Loan
underscores the importance of setting the single tranche operation within a medium-term fiscal and reforn
framework.
*      When policy formulation and reform implementation capacity is weak, as in the case of UP, a
more strategic design can lead to a more focused but deeper dialogue. The UPFRPSR Credit/Loan
involved a very large number of measures and in particular processing steps. This may have been partly a
result of the perception that Uttar Pradesh had serious problems of economic management and to push as
many elements of reform as possible through the window of opportunity offered by the government's open
- 15 -



recognition of governance and fiscal crisis. However, as a result, dialogue in all reform fronts could not be
deepened and pursued equally and implementation of further institutional reforms, in particular in the
governance and poverty monitoring areas, slowed. Setting priorities (and sequencing) is difficult, especially
when a rapid and visible turnaround is desired. Still, realism about the government's implementation
capacity - both technical and political -- requires that priorities be set and that comprehensiveness in the
policy dialogue be accompanied with selectivity in actions supported by the operation.
*     Detailed listing and auditing of a subset of line items within the expenditure budget, identified as
High Priority Development Expenditures, tends to create a 'budget within a budget'. A better approach
would encourage reprioritization within the budget, in the context of an improved budget process, whilst
avoiding micro-management. While the effort to protect and enhance HPDE enabled GoUP to begin
improving its expenditure composition, the level of detail adopted in specifying these expenditures and
auditing them contradicts efforts to develop an effective government budget system. Since expenditure is
fungible, reprioritizing within the budget requires that the entire expenditure profile be analyzed and
accounted for. Concerns about transparency and audit/certification of specific subsets of expenditure could
be better addressed through improving the government's general financial reporting and audit, rather than
through a special audit conducted at the Bank's request.
=     In establishing an effective poverty and social monitoring system, emphasis should be placed
from the outset on: (i) institutionalizing a system ofperiodic collection and analysis of data; and (ii)
fostering demandfor the use of such data, both within and outside the government In UP, the poverty
and social monitoring system was designed with a great deal of flexibility and much of the effort in the
initial 18 months was focused on creating capacity and collecting, entering, and analyzing the first round of
household data. The presumption was that decisions regarding the use of the data and the periodicity of
monitoring would be taken once the baseline survey was completed. As a result, however, ownership and
interest in sustaining this system remains narrow, and circumscribed to a relatively narrow circle, centered
around the Planning Department (responsible for generating these data).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
-16 -



.-IN :..; xWA,c1 .ir I  rwvw Qrs," I I W"n
Aw~~~~~I        #ri  ^  rt   '  Ql-lr    IiA
*~~~~~~~~~AO *MY 3f11wititt
~~0~~~o* 1>    f tiaw
FMu )O1 I=2                                EATW   ~~p1JI
sit.
I    4gatod to .r   s       .b  v.m          . 
E~m     Miuiry o  '                t    f 1d  -$ 
I ,
lthoe via", of the Ooew    fbdatm  ki t emts '
hy?Qwinr.                              A X        ,';
A** NUu- LtmO)
The Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reforms and Public Sector Restructurins! (UPFRPSR)
Loan/Credit
- 17 -



Implementation Completion Report - Borrower's Perspective - Government of India
1.0   The Government of India's perspective on the UPFRPSR will be dealt with in two parts.
The first would refer to GOI's views on the general World Bank structure of such loans/credit.
The second will specifically refer to the UPFRPSR.
2.0   Assistance for Loan/Credit for Fiscal Reforms should not be a one off assistance. There
should be some commitment upfront to assistance over the medium term of course subject to the
state achieving key milestones set a priori. This would enable both the States and the Bank to
negotiate progress of actions in a more realistic time frame.
3.0   Normally, the Bank and the States agree upon a significant number of milestones in
different areas such as fiscal improvement through better tax compliance, expenditure
prioritization, civil service reforms like a transfer policy, etc. Yet out of the twenty or thrift
milestones, there is an urgent need to cull out one or at most two key milestones in each sector,
which are key-critical. For any subsequent tranched releases from the Bank, the attainment of
these milestones should be non-negotiable once the loan/credit is approved. Regardless of
whether the State concerned achieves all other milestones, subsequent disbursements must be a
function of these 4 or 5 critical milestones, alone.
4.0   The critical milestones mentioned above must directly impact upon the Fiscal betterment
of States on a sustainable basis. Mere policy papers however necessary cannot and should not
constitute a necessary and sufficient condition for loan/credit disbursement.
5.0   In the current context of States it is vitally necessary to integrate the Power Sector
Reforms within the general rubric of Fiscal Reforms. Also off budget borrowing of States should
be integrated in their debt profile. Power Sector loans/credit cannot be a stand-alone credit,
divorced from the general fiscal correction of the States and their need for budgetary support.
The cases of Andhra Pradesh Power Reforms Loan/credit, the Orissa Power Sector Reforms
Loan/credit, are examples in point.
6.0   The UPFRPSR does suffer from most of the general infirmities mentioned above. Though
the State has performed credibly in fiscal consolidation alone, a contrary picture emerges once the
Power Sector deficit is factored in. The bottom line is that the consolidated fiscal stance of the
State has worsened since the program loan. Secondly, many of the policy papers, such as those
on Civil Service Reforms have been long on promises and short on performance. A holistic view
needs to be taken as to what and how much the State of Uttar Pradesh has gained out of the
credit/loan.
[The original is on file]
- 18 -



pl:rK w 01   :SWU WePM   Bkwl  ' +.  EF-U1                       P. 2
, #                ~~~~No5 4t /72EAPI0 .
S.MNShulda IAS
~riatpai secretar                                       Ggot uttuft'aPh"
Ded; t- -4cJ
Please reftr to your letter dated May 7, 2001 in which you
deired a formal copy of evluation of the U.P. Fcl Refirm  &
Prli Sect Rstrctuing Project. In this conneion Secretary,
Extally Aided Project Depatment has already sent to you the
evaluation report trougb an e-mail on April 30, 2001  Hereby
sined a op  of the same is being sent to you for your kind
iformation and necessary action.
Speia  audit report of  igh Pioty Dentopown
Exenditre   E) from C&AG will be seot sortly to you
Eci. As above                       6l  WWI,
Sinmery yom
M. YV.Rvisha
Senior Economist. The World Bank
70, Lodi Estat,
Neow Delhi
Cc tw-  M. Adarsh Kishore, Additional Serty, DepttmanC t
of Ecowmic Affairs, Ministy of Finsnce. Govt. of India,
North block, New Delhi with all above eneules.
- 19-



EVALUATION OF GOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADESH ON
UP FISCAL REFORMS AND PUBLIC SECTOR
RESTRUCTURING LOAN
I.    The Government of Uttar Pradesh has formulated a comprehensive medium term strategy to
stabilize the financial position of the state and reverse the trend of declining econornic performance and
persistence of poverty. The comprehensive strategy includes govemance and civil service refonns, fiscal
policy reform, public enterprise reform, financial management reform, power sector restructuring, as well
as reforms in other key infrastructure sectors, such as Roads and Irrigation and social sectors such as
education and health. The aim of the comprehensive reform strategy is to achieve fiscal sustainability and
create an enabling environment for improved economic performance and more rapid poverty reduction, so
that over the medium term, Uttar Pradesh can reach the top half among Indian states in terms of physical,
social, and human indicators.
2.     Recognizing the needs for sustainability of recent improvements, the State Government has
decided to launch a medium-term fiscal reform strategy to achieve the following objectives: (a) to ensure a
decline in debt: GSDP and debt repayment : revenue ratios, so that these ratios are on a declining trend by
2004-05, (b) to improve the composition of public expenditure giving greater thrust to development
expenditure and (c) to reform taxation with a view to improving the efficiency of resource allocation. In
order to stabilize the level of its debt and debt service ratios over the medium-term, the Government of U.P
recognized the need to eliminate the primary deficit (the gap between revenue and non-interest expenditure)
and turn it into a surplus by 2003-04. The gross adjustment have so far been greater, because the state had
to meet the upfront cost of reforms (including the cost of restructuring power and other PEs) and increase
its spending on infrastructure and human resources, while at the same time reducing the deficit.
Fiscal Reforms
Fiscal correction
Long-Term Objectives: offiscal correction is to achieve fiscal sustainability over the
medium-term through growth oriented revenue and expenditure measures. The following
achievement has been made:
*     Cabinet Approval obtained and Policy Paper on Fiscal Reforms tabled in the State
Legislative Assembly in March,2000
+     Contingency Plan to manage potential revenue and financing shortfalls finalised in
January 2000 for 1999-2000. Contingency Plan for 2000-01 has also been finalesed in January
2001
*     Ceiling on Debt and Guarantees. in the fiscal deficit target for 1999-00 has been
overfulfilled.
+     Fiscal Deficit - in Rupees and as % GSDP- The gross fiscal deficit reduced from Rs.
116.31 bn (6.8% of GSDP) in 1998-99 to Rs 110.97 bn (5.9% of GSDP). The adjusted fiscal
deficit reduced from Rs. 109.60 bn (6.4% GSDP) to Rs. 108.73 bn (5.8% GSDP). The
- 20 -



non-power deficit in 1998-99 was Rs. 98.43 bn (5.7%GSDP) and in 1999-00 Rs. 97.85 bn (5.2%
GSDP).
*     Revenue Deficit - in Rs. and as % GSDP- Revenue deficit came down to Rs.72.52 bn
(3.9% GSDP) to Rs.86 .97 bn (5.1% GSDP).
*     Interest and Total Debt Servicing - as % Total State Revenue - Interest /Revenue is
31.4% compared to the fiscal framework target of 30.8%. Debt servicing /Revenue ratio is
40.1% against the targeted benchmark of 39.5%)
Interest as % Revenue Expenditure - The interest payments constituted 22.8% of the total
revenue expenditure during 1999-00 as against the target of 22.08%.
*     Fiscal Deficit - in Rupees and as % GSDP- The gross fiscal deficit reduced from Rs.
116.31 bn(6.8% of GSDP) in 1998-99 to Rs 110.97 bn (5.9% of GSDP). The adjusted fiscal
deficit reduced from Rs. 109.60 bn (6.4% GSDP) to Rs. 108.73 bn (5.8% GSDP). The
non-power deficit in 1998-99 was Rs. 98.43 bn (5.7%GSDP) and in 1999-00 Rs. 97.85 bn (5.2%
GSDP).
*     Revenue Deficit - in Rs. and as % GSDP- Revenue deficit came down to Rs.72.52 bn
(3.9% GSDP) to Rs.86 .97 bn (5.1% GSDP).
*     Interest and Total Debt Servicing - as % Total State Revenue - Interest /Revenue is
31.4% compared to the fiscal framework target of 30.8%. Debt servicing /Revenue ratio is
40.1% against the targeted benchmark of 39.5%)
Interest as % Revenue Expenditure - The interest payments constituted 22.8% of the total
revenue expenditure during 1999-00 as against the target of 22.08%.
Expenditure Measures
Long-Term Objectives is to improve expenditure management, efficiency ofpublic resource
allocation and the composition of public spending so as to enhance its developmental
impact. The following achievement has been made:.
*     High Priority Developmental Expenditure was enhanced from Rs 100 bn in 99-00, wherein social
sector was protected up to 97% and physical infrastructure up to 89%, to Rs 124 bn in 2000-01.
*     Strategy for Medium-Term Expenditure framework (MTEF) has been adopted
*     Computerization of treasury transactions in 2000-01 is completed
*     Pension & Provident Fund Reforms initiated in 2001-02.
*     Full computerization of budgeting, accounting and expenditure management by
*     2002-03
Revenue Measures
Long-Term Objectives is to enhance the state 's own revenue base, create a fair, simple and
high compliance tax system and improve cost recovery from publicly provided private and
semi-private goods and services. The following achievement has been made:
- 21 -



*     Reduction in the number of Trade Tax rates from 17 to 12 implemented.
*     Measures to strengthen anti-evasion efforts taken.
*     Survey for identification of potential taxpayers who are outside the tax net conducted.
*     Introduction of New Entry Tax extended on tobacco and non-levy sugar.
*     Phasing out of Tax Holidays.
*     Reorganization, modernization and computerization of Trade Tax Administration .
*     Increase in user charges for higher education and hospital care- Total revenue from user
charges increased from Rs. 717 crores in 1998-99 to Rs. 1033 crores in 1999-00. Revenue from user
charges in education increased from Rs. 101 crores to Rs. 138 over the same period.
+     Value of "recorded" goods imported by road and recorded on form 31 compared to previous period,
rose from Rs. 4545 crores in September 1999 to Rs. 4767 in September 2000, or by 4.9%. Cumulative
total value up to September 2000 was Rs. 26685 crores compared to Rs. 25120 crores up to September
1999, an increase of 6.2%.
*     Total monthly collections from Trade Tax, with and without petroleum products (Trade tax
collection, including Entry Tax was Rs. 345 crores excluding petrol/diesel, and Rs. 453 including
petrol/diesel, or increases of about 28% over the previous year. Total cumulative trade tax collected up to
September 2000 was Rs. Rs. 1905 crores, excluding petrol/diesel (increase of 20% over previous year) and
Rs. 2703 crores including petrol/diesel (increase of 22% over previous year).
*     Number of taxable dealers who file declarations - Number of 'registered' dealers increased by
3% from 190,398 in 1999-00 to 196024 in 2000-01.
Net Recoverable Arrears - in Rupees and as ratio of total taxes due (Net recoverable arrears
(provincial) were Rs. 1000 crores in August 2000.
*     Annual number of cases under appeal and value under dispute - In 1999-00, there were
115,780 appeals (60,586 past and 55,194 new appeals). There were 64,133 disputed appeals amounting to
Rs. 3324 crores. The number of pending appeals were 51,647 and amounted to Rs. 960 crores.
*     Proportion of staff in Trade Tax Department assigned to enforcement (In 1999-00, of a total of
1206 officers and 1419 employee in the Trade Tax Departments, 42% and 22% respectively were involved
in enforcement work.
*     Number of staff in Trade Tax Department using computers in daily work (During
July-September 2000-01, 17.0% of officers and 0.09% of employees were using computers compared to
0.5% and 3.03% over the previous quarter (April-June 20001-01).
*     Improved voluntary tax compliance
*     Reduced transactions costs for private business operating in UP
*     Increase in the State's Own Tax Revenue - from 5.4% GSDP in 1998-99 to 7.6% by 2003-04;
*     Increase in the rate of cost recovery from canal irrigation - from less than 20% currently to 50%
by 2003-04
The ground, as per the aforementioned indicators has been covered under difficult circumstances such as
bifurcation of the State and elections to rural/urban local bodies. Even though the power sector reforms will
eventually reduce the burden on the budget of the state, the present requirement of power sector reforms
constitutes a substantial portion of the fiscal deficit. There is an urgent need to ensure adequate assistance
to the state Government by the Government of India and the World bank, to enable the GoUP to support
the power sector restructuring. Too little or too late assistance will jeopardize the success of the reform
program.
The GoUP has decided to constitute a Resource and Expenditure Commission which will not only look into
- 22 -



the issues related to the whole gamut of resource raising but also expenditure reprioritization and
expenditure management. The Finance minister UP has announced this while presenting the budget for the
year 2001-02 The Commission will review schemes and programs and will recommend phasing out of
those schemes which have outlived their utility. In this context, the Commission will also advise the
government on developing and implementing a Medium term Expenditure framework.
We are well on our way to a fairer and simpler tax system. Our efforts at computerization are aimed at
introduction of VAT by 2004.
Governance Reform
In the area of civil service reform, the Government faces three critical challenges. It must enhance
productivity of the civil service and ensure that every employee is performing socially relevant tasks. At
the same time, affordability must be adhered to. Thirdly, it must enforce procedures for rewarding merit,
disciplining malfeasance and misconduct and strengthen accountability and performance quality. The fiscal
consequence of implementing the 5th pay commission's recommendation was only partially neutralized by
rightsizing by 1% in 99-00 and by another 1.6% in 2000-01. The abolition of approximately 15000 vacant
positions has impacted positively on the fiscal position. We will be in a better position to assess the exact
number once the treasury operations are fully computerized.
The introduction of a new work culture both at the managerial and the cutting edge level is proposed
through a full fledged functional review with the objective to rationalize and restructure departments. The
recommendations of the Deregulation conmmittee and similar such Committees have been reviewed by the
Core Group constituted in the Administrative Reforms Department. A Technical working Group will
supervise the Consultant appointed for collating and finalizing a set of recommendations from all the
aforementioned committees. We have received a measure of success in creating apex positions in the
Social sector and the Urban development sectors. Similar structures exists in the agriculture and Industrial
development sectors.
Training for all is the declared national policy and under this we have refurbished our training institutions.
Information Technology and computer skills have been given a priority.
Our transfer policy subserves the basic dictum of the best man in the right place. We will enhance
meritocracy by ensuring stable tenures.
Civil Service Reform
Policy planning cells established in the 53 Major departments and intra-departmental reviews initiated.
Approximately 38 functional reviews have been completed and submitted to relevant secretaries. The cells
are meeting every three months. We have done the following:
*     Technical working group has been established.
*      Phased rationalization of departments to begin from October, 2001 and be completed by
December, 2004. Number of departments rationalization will be carefully monitored to ensure
implementation does not slip.
+     Rationalization of organizational structure, business process, staffing, and products and services
for remaining departments, starting with PWD, Irrigation, Forestry, Health and Trade Tax to be completed
by December, 2002.
*     Significant increase in the number of functions that are privatized and/or commercialized consistent
- 23 -



with best practice in Indian states and elsewhere.
Ensure A Global Annual Reduction In Civil Service Size by at least 2% for Next Five
Years.
*     TOR for a TA proposal for reviewing civil service terms and conditions as part of functional
review and Human Resource Management have been finalized.
*     Approximately 15000 posts abolished to date in financial year 2000-01.
*     Exercise for identifying alternatives to the practice of compensatory/compassionate employment is
under process.
*     Size of civil service downsized by 1% during financial year 1999-2000 and estimated 1.6% for
financial year 2000-01.
*     Over 60 divisions abolished in PWD and Irrigation. Approximately 5000 staff awaiting transfer
for surplus labor pool in Departnent of Admiinistrative Reforms for redeployment.
*     Major reduction in casual and work charged employees by financial year 2004.
Improve Human Resource Management
+      Computerized human resource database being developed, so GoUP can immediately produce
accurate and timely information on the size and composition of the civil service.
*     Annual Transfer Policy published in May, 2000.
*     Activity being taken up in Functional Review and Human Resource Management to study Annual
Confidential Report (ACR) process to improve its effectiveness.
*     Government order to allocate 1% of annual departmental wage bill for training issued.
ANTI CORRUPTION AND DEREGULATION STRATEGY
The key objective of the Government is to reduce wastage of public resources and increase transparence
and accountability. The series of surveys were extremely useful as it provided an insight in to perceptions
of general public as well as governnent officials and businesses. This insight has been incorporated in our
anti corruption strategy which has been adopted by the Government. It will be publicized soon..
Deregulation and internal reviews by Policy Planning cells are now a regular feature in the departments.
Strengthening of key accountability institutions has commenced.
The introduction of Information technology to make Government totally accessible to the citizen is a major
thrust of the Government. Availability of vital information pertaining to departments and their function is
facilitated through websites. Tender documents and forms are available on line. All government
departments are accessible through a government portal and a grievance button is displayed prominently.
Deregulation
*     Deregulation committee established in October, 1999. Committee began functioning in January,
2000. It has held 49 meetings with departmental secretaries and 68 internal meetings.
*     Approximately 58 departments completed its internal review and submitted the report to
deregulation committee.
*     Deregulation committee submitted its first review and recommendations to Government in
November, 2000. The initial report makes 615 recommendations concerning the work of 40 departments.
*     Based on recommendation of the Deregulation committee Government is formulating a time bound
program to streamline and modernize the laws, rules and regulations.
- 24 -



Strengthening Key Accountability Institutions and Anti Corruption Bodies.
+     Surveys conducted to find out perception of general public, traders and civil servants towards
corruption.
*     Vigilance establishment budget for the year 2000-01 increased by 12.9% over the expenditure
1999-00, to ensure to proper funding and staffing for key accountability institutions to compare favorably
with per capita funding in other states.
*     The Lok Ayukta is empowered to recruit and appoint more junior staff (Class III and IV). Class I
and II are appointed only with the concurrence of the Lok Ayukta to have greater independents in
recruitment and transfer to staff in vigilance establishment and Lok Ayukta.
*     A proposal is being formulated that would allow 50% of the staff of the vigilance establishment to
be recruited by the Directorate of Vigilance.
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES REFORM
We are governed by the dictum that the State should withdraw from manufacturing or servicing in areas
where the private sector exists or is ready to move in. Towards this divestment and closure is one aspect
and privatization is the other. The Divestment Commission has made its recommendation and we are now
processing these in the Empowered Committee. Five enterprises have been closed. The Technical
assistance available under this program was used fruitfully to write the divestment procedure manual as
well as the guidelines for environment audit for closed units.
PE Reformn poliy has been approved.
Divestment Commission and Working Commrittee established.
-     The detailed procedure for sale and closure of PE's prepared.
-.    The transaction Manual on enviromnental matters being prepared.
Three public enterprises (UPSMDC, UPIL and UP Pashudhan Udyog Nigam Ltd.) have been
divested and closed.
* The Technical Secretariat, PICUP has committed that the environmental audit of phase -I
enterprises will be completed by 31 st March 2001.
*     The decision to refer remaining 14 enterprises to divestment commission will be taken shortly.
*     Divestment Commission has submitted recommendation of the following 10 PE's
i.    The Indian Turpentine & Rosin Co. Ltd.
2.    UP Bhumi Sudhar Nigam.
3.    UP (Purva) Ganga Beej evam Vikas Nigam
4.    UP (Pashchim) Ganga Beej evam Vikas Nigam
5.    UP (Ruhelkhand) Ganga Beej evam Vikas Nigam
6.    UP (Madhya) Ganga Beej evam Vikas Nigam
7.    UP Tarai Ganga Beej evam Vikas Nigam
8.    UP State Leather Development Corporation.
9.    UP Project and Tubewells Corporation
10.   UP Poltry and Live Stock Corporation.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
The State govenmuent has modernized and computerized its financial management and control architecture.
The Financial Controller is in place and is providing valuable inputs in developing strategy and policy
direction to strengthen internal audit functions. The Conference on Parliamentary Control of the Public
- 25 -



Purse has helped build a national consensus on this important aspect of Financial accountability. The
C&AG has completed special audits of the HPDE.
*     Strategy for Strengthening Financial Management and accountability is approved.
*     Controller of Accounts appointed.
*     Task Force has completed its work on recommendation on form content and presentation of
financial statements for public disclosure.
*     Feasibility study for accrual according and financial statements and the accounting system required
is under process.
*     Recruitment of consultant to study to modernization State Finance and Accounts cadre is
underway.
*     Timely response to observation in the C&AG audit reports.
*     Special audit of HPDE is under way.
POVERTY AND SOCIAL MONITORING
We share the vision of the President of the World Bank the underlying objective of all reform is that it
should reduce poverty. The benchmarking survey has been completed and we are awaiting the result of
the statistical investigator. We have positioned key officers to develop skills in analyzing the infonnation
to understand the impact of reforms on the poor and in making informed policy decisions.
Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Proiect
Given the magnitude and range of the fiscal, governance and sector reform being initiated and
contemplated by the Government, there is a clear need for Technical Assistance to assist with both
conceptualization and implementation of reform. Technical Assistance is an integral part of Reform
Program of Govt. of UP. The departments have already submitted a number of T.A. proposals covers the
following main areas: tax reform, expenditure management, audit and financial management, poverty
monitoring, public enterprise reform, civil service reform, deregulation, urban reform and restructuring of
the irrigation department.
- 26 -



D.O.No*N(27)vicw-UP1MCt
I. Baner ir                                     *u  wTitf
Join Secrcwy (PP. I)                             g    t
Tek 301411                                        w
Far 3011022                                WVOVNAAENT Of ND.A
4E                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIN.ST1Y OF F.NANC::S
_FPARTIVNT Or EXPENDflfUL
DW Jw. L'l
This has reference to iP Fiscsl a  Publi Sctor R Pstroaurin
CroditLan -inal laimemeation Copi  ion Repot
Subswt   to this Ministry's earlia e#U of 30h April, 201.
ctsu but beenude to rae  ft Power Sector defich in ftte Ste of
UP. t wil alp_, in the li  of dcussias wih World Bank Otlice
tt thd  Pwer Scto d*i wil. peaps  be bwu thn om   iniial
umeMuaniWhile the eact dianeet of the PoWr Seto de&k iS yCt
to eaxeW, te Consolided fP=W Deftic of the Ste appea  to hao-
swe $cave ;,ovmt. Howe,I a" qi*. t   nwks above
by eite    thb  the dot in respect of the Power Sctr rquis to be
o1eS-, pecilsy in he mata of ThD oses and th operang losses
ofdweUppowercorporstlo
In view of the abow advisedy, th comobdumad flicstaucc of
die Stw  has bswn magiul iwovunt. To ts end ou earlie
wisipoir of 30' Apail 20!. stand modiia. 'The othba gneavl rmoarks
r.atg a  tanwab  sot oproe  and o ome Indkatow stil emann
"MineD.   t4
Mr Edwin R. Lion,
County Diretor - India.
The Worki Bank.
70. Lo EBtafte
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    I Implementation   Development
Month/Ycar   Count             Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1999 -                6   Economist                             S               S
Oct. 1999                   2   Public Sector Specialist
2   Private Sector Dev. Specialist
3   Financial Mgmt. Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist
1   Legal
2   Reseach Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
Nov. 1999 -                  5   Economist                            S                S
March 2000                   1   Public Sector Specialist
2   Private Sector Dev. Specialist
3   Financial Mgmt. Specialist
I   Procurement Specialist
I   Legal
I   Research Analyst
Supervision
NA
ICR
January 2001 -               4    Economist
February 2001               2    Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist
I    Research Analyst
(b) Staff
j    Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               195.4                       660.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                (included                     (included
above)                       above)
Supervision                                NA                           NA
ICR                                       19.8                        58.00
Total                                    215.2                       718.00
Includes labor, travel and other costs.
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
?Sector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
ER Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Financial                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
X Institutional Development               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
M Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Not applicable
 Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
? Public sector managementH               0    O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
M? Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Not applicable
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            *HSOS Ou OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS   Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
1 Preparation                                        OHS Os   O U   O HU
Z Government implementation performance              O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
M Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-Memoire of the ICR Mission
- 34 -



Additional Annex 8.Ov erview of Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Program,
1999-2004
Overview of Fiscal Reform & Public Sector Restructuring Program In Uftar Pradesh, 1999-2004
Benchmarks/ Policy Actions
Supported under the UPFRPSR creditiloan
Objectives                              1999-00 (April-March)                                Outcomes
1. FISCAL REFORMS    Obtain Cabinet approval and table in the State's Legislative   Achieve substantial reduction in fiscal
Achia ve Fl'scsl       Assembly Policy Paper on Medium-Term Fiscal Reforms;  deficit and create sufficient fiscal space
SAc WveF?Irc1          with objective of reducing overall deficit from 7.5% of GSDP   for adequate levels of development
to 4% by 2003-04; Reduce non-power fiscal deficit from   outlays and a gradual decline in the debt-
Rs.99 billion (6.7% of GSDP) in 1998-99 to Rs.98 billion  to-GSDP and interest-to-revenue ratios.
(6.0%) in 1999-00; Adhere to agreed debt and guarantee
ceilings.
Improve  pae,di'tre    Protect High Priority Development Expenditures from     Improved budget compliance and fiscal
hAw amgsw.iutand       potential budget cuts; Contain Salary and Pension payments  discipline ; Improved poverty targeting
Composition of Public    to within Rs.101 billion in 1999-00; Abolish leave    and developmental impact of government
SPendingto enhnNCe     encashment facility; Ban new loans to public enterprises  spending; Expenditure composition linked
Development moact      except in power and for VRS; Freeze higher and secondary   to policy priorities.
education grants at their 1998-99 level; Obtain Cabinet  Increase in the rate of recovery of
approval of user charge hikes in irrigation, professional  recurring cost of canal irrigation - from
education and hospital care so as to cut implicit subsidies;    less than 20% currently to 50% by 2003-
Computerize treasury transactions; Prepare a strategy for  04.
developing a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
to be implemented with technical assistance.
Reform Taxr Sy.riw lo    Policy Paper on Govemance Reforms to be approved by  Improved voluntary tax compliance;
Improve Efficiency in  Cabinet and tabled in the State's Legislative Assembly;  Reduced transactions costs for private
Resource Allocation and                                                        business operating in UP; Increase in the
Enhance Taxpayer       Policy Paper on Civil Service Renewal (CSR) to be       State's Own Tax Revenue - from 5.4%
Compliance             approved by Cabinet and tabled in the State Assembly;   GSDP in 1998-99 to 7.6% by 2003-04.
Reduce the size of the civil service by at least 2% through
attrition and abolish about 10,000 unfilled and unnecessary
positions; Initiate a review of civil service terms and
conditions to identify changes that will allow for greater
flexibility in downsizing and redeployment; Publicize Annual
Transfer Policy and initiate monitoring of compliance; Begin
to implement a consultative mechanism to oversee
transfers.
IL. GOVERNANCE         Policy Paper on Governance Reforms to be approved by   Substantial reduction in the number of
REFOr=MS               Cabinet and tabled in the State's Legislative Assembly;  departments towards international norms;
Significant improvement in the ratio of
Reform the Clv#Servrs   Policy Paper on Civil Service Renewal (CSR) to be      front-line staff vis-A-vis support and
to Enhance Efficiency,  approved by Cabinet and tabled in the State Assembly;  administrative staff; Significant increase
Effective -ness 8end   Reduce the size of the civil service by at least 2% through  in the number of functions that are
Product-ivity and Reduce   attrition and abolish about 10,000 unfilled and unnecessary    privatized and/or commercialized;
Overhead Costs         positions; Initiate a review of civil service terms and                 .       .    X   .
conditions to identify changes that will allow for greater  Improved staffing n key skil categores.
flexibility in downsizing and redeployment; Publicize Annual
Transfer Policy and initiate monitoring of compliance; Begin
to implement a consultative mechanism to oversee
transfers.
ImplementAtA           Complete the first surveys of perceptions of public service  Increased awareness and utilization of
Cemnrt6bo aad          quality and corruption among households, business       Lok Ayukta function by the public and
DfrnI/sffeW Stfrategies   enterprises and civil servants; Establish a broad based  Vigilance Establishment by civil service;
to Re'uce Corruption and  Governance Reform Task Force including civil society  Radical reduction (more than 50%/6) in
maladministration, as wail
asAdmlnistrative Surden   representatives, for rationalizing and strengthening key  average investigation tme; Improved
on the State           accountability institutions; Publish Citizen Charters for 18  sanction and conviction rate;
departments with public interface; Cabinet approval of a  Stakeholder surveys indicate decreasing
code of access for documents of local governments, state  perceptions of corruption.
financial institutions, and development agencies; Establish
Deregulation Committee to review existing laws and
regulations and streamline and modernize them.
- 35 -



Benchmarkul Policy Actions
Supported under the UPFRPSR credit/loan
Objectives                             1999-00 (April-March)                               Outcomes
mpA/wwtFiscal         Transfer selected functional responsibilities to local bodies -   Enhanced beneficiary & stakeholder
Deceatralizaton to     Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs), including primary schools,  participation in overseeing government
fEid7c 8-6w1*         tube wells, health sub-centers, agriculture and rural  performance; Improved quality of social
sqdJ%#a*vA6r          development; Transfer staff of corresponding government  services and infrastructure maintenance
locamAccoai,tibI)    departments to local bodies; Transfer 11% of the state's  in the rural areas; Increased public
own tax revenue to local governments; Initiate short-term  accountability.
training programs; Prepare a Training Manual for all
functions in the PREs and empowered local bodies to recruit
new staff.
Reform PlOc           Obtain Cabinet approval of the Public Enterprise Reform  Reduction in fiscal drain due to PEs;
E&Avprisosand         and Privatization Policy Paper and related guidelines and  Release of assets to private owners;
Pniaize to Reduce     procedures, including sale, closure, labor and environmental  Reorientation of government role
ScoR,e OfGovemmeaet  issues, Establish Divestment Commission, a working
and lmprove Economic    Committee and designate PICUP as the technical
PerformaIce           secretariat; Complete closure and sale of Uttar Pradesh
Instruments Ltd. (UPIL) assets.
Modernize Fze&/I      Cabinet approval of the Strategy Paper on strengthening  Improved quality of financial information
hAGA wwitd Control   financial management and accountability; Appoint a      available to the public; Improved and
Architecture andEnhaence   Controller' to coordinate and provide leadership in  timely information for financial
Accounrabetonsto PEmote   modernizing the systems of Financial Management. GoUP  management; Computerized performance
andAnswerable         departments to respond to the audit observations of the C &   recording and result-based management;
Govemmenlt            AG for the year 1997-98 to facilitate review by the Public  Effective legislative scrutiny over financial
Accounts Committee; Establish Task Force, including    management by the Executive.
stakeholders from outside government, to recommend ways
of modernizing accountability including presentation and
frequency of government financial statements for public
disclosure; Request C &AG for conduct of special external
audits of procurement, and high priority expenditures; Ban
year end transfers to PLAs,
Ill. POVERTY AND      Finalize detailed implementation plan for the first 18 months   Track progress at reducing poverty and
SOCIAL                of the project; Set up independent monitoring unit in the  improving living conditions using a
DEVELOPMENT           Chief Secretary's Office.                              range of indicators; measure the impacts
of key reform measures on poor,
vulnerable, and socially-excluded; based
on this information, identify factors
responsible for adverse outcomes and
design appropriate mitigation measures,
also improve impacts of policies on the
poor.
- 36 -



Benchmarks/ Polcy Actions
2000-01                   2001-02to2003-04
ObJectives                      (April-March)              (Aprl 2001-March 2004)            Outcomes
1. FISCAL REFORMS    Reduce the non-power fiscal deficit    Reduce the overall fiscal  Achieve substantial reduction
A cliia ve Aftal  from Rs.98 billion (6.0% of GSDP) to   deficit to below 4% of GSDP  in fiscal deficit and create
AchieveAas            Rs 82 billion in 2000-01 (4.6% of  by 2003-04, reduce non-     sufficient fiscal space for
GSDP); Adhere to agreed debt and  power fiscal deficit to below  adequate levels of
guarantee ceilings.                3% and achieve primary      development outlays and a
surplus by then; Adhere to  gradual decline in the debt-to-
agreed debt and guarantee   GSDP and interest-to-revenue
ceilings in the period 2001-04.  ratios.
/mprove E*_Xft#       Enhance allocations for High-Priority   By March 2002: Full    Improved budget compliance
AAh WM'and            Developmental Expenditures and    implementation of MTEF;      and fiscal discipline;
Com,oos/on ofPub//c    implement plan to protect the same in  Begin implementation of  Improved poverty targeting
Spending to enhance   2000-01; Reduce salary bill of regular   Pension and Provident Fund    and developmental impact of
DevelopmentlImpact    government employees as            Reform; Conduct Public      government spending;
percentage of GSDP; Begin          Expenditure Review. Further    Expenditure composition
implementation of a Medium-Term   increases in user charges in    linked to policy priorities.
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) with  irrigation, higher &        Increase in the rate of
Technical Assistance for the budget    professional education &  recovery of recurnng cost of
for 2001 -02;Carry out a study of  specialized hospital services.   canal irrigation - from less
options for Pension and Provident  By March 2003: Achieve full   than 20% currently to 50% by
Fund Reform (with TA); Conduct    computerization of budgeting,   2003-04.
Public Expenditure Review.        accounfing and expenditure
management; Conduct Public
Expenditure Review.
Reform TarSysAwuto    Implement the decision to reduce the   By March 2002: I ntensify audit  Improved voluntary tax
ImpoDve EfficIencyi/  number of sales tax rates from 11 to    efforts, through well designed   compliance; Reduced
Resource A/local/on and   5 and reduce commodity        inspections; Complete the    transactions costs for private
Enhance Tax payer     classification to 200; Begin to   reorganization of Tax Dept.;    business operating in UP;
Comp//ance           implement a strategy of functional  Expand scanning and storage   Increase in the State's Own
reorganization of the Trade Tax   of registered conveyance     Tax Revenue - from 5.4%
Department; Implement extemal audit  deeds state wide; Implement    GSDP in 1998-99 to 7.6% by
of the Trade Tax Department on a  external audit of the Tax Dept.  2003-04.
sample basis by an external        By March 2003: Complete a
professional auditing firm; Make  comprehensive review of
officials of the trade tax department    business procedures;
subject to Vigilance supervision and    Implement extemal audit of
require all tax officers to make an  the Tax Dept.; Change from
annual declaration of their family  assessing 100% of periodic
assets; Institute formal monitoring of   and annual retums to modern
up to 2000 largest tax payers; Begin   self- assessment; Begin to
modernizing property valuation for  implement core computer
levying stamp duties; Begin to    application system.
develop a strategic plan for       By March 2004: Adopt a
introduction of VAT.              Value Added Tax system.
- 37 -



Benchmarksl Policy Actions
2000401                    2001-02 to 2003-04
Objectives                       (Apriil-March)             (April 2001-March 2004)            Outcomes
11. GOVERNANCE        Continue to reduce the size of civil  By March 2002: Continue    Substantial reduction in the
REFORMS               service by at least 2% a year; Freeze   implementation of        number of departments
all non-regular hiring and target  rationalization of government   towards international norms;
Reform the CA'Swvie   further reductions (by more than    departments based on GoUP    Significant improvement in the
to Enhance Efficiency,    attrition) in PWD and Irrigation  report on positions;.      ratio of front-line staff vis-A-vis
Effective-ness and    Departments; Carry out a phased                                  support and administrative
Produc-vIfy and Reduce  rationalization and consolidation of  2002-04: Ongoing annual  staff; Significant increase in
Overhead Costs        departments; Publicize Transfer     reduction in the size of civil    the number of functions that
Policy on an annual basis, including    service employment of at least  are privatized and/or
guidelines for transfer of senior and  2% per annum; Publish    commercialized; Improved
mid-level officers; Formulate and  annual report on progress in    staffing in key skill categories.
implement an altemative policy to  CSR; Conduct detailed
compensatory/ compassionate        monitoring of performance
employment; Develop set of         indicators of all departments
organizational performance         and publish them annually.
indicators; Conduct follow up civil
service census; Implement the      By March 2004: Complete
recommendations from the review of   phased rationalization of
Civil Service terms and conditions;  departments.
Begin implemenfing a human
resource development and training
plan.
/rn,maerenftAe        Conduct series of public workshops    By March 2002: Enact UP    Increased awareness and
ai7l4dUbAMY          on corruption survey's results;     Right to Information Act;    utilization of Lok Ayukta
taguhibu,S tfateg6'es   Develop and publish Anti-corruption    Implement the           function by the public and
to Reduce Conruption and  Strategy; Enhance budget allocation    recommendations of the  Vigilance Establishment by
Maladm,ist,afion, as wel  significantly above the level of  Governance Reform Task     civil service; Radical reduction
asAdminin/strafve     expenditure in 1999-0 on Vigilance    Force to strengthen        (more than 50%) in average
and the Lok Ayukta (ombudsman);    accountability institutions;  investigation time; Improved
Strengthen the staffing of Vigilance  Each Department to prepare    sanction and conviction rate;
and facilitate the Lok Ayukta     its own anti-corruption       Stakeholder surveys indicate
(Ombudsman) to fill all existing   strategy, including preventive    decreasing perceptions of
vacancies in investigative positions;    and curative measures;  corruption.
Submit Lok Ayukta reports from 1991   Expand Citizen's Charter to all
through 1998 to the Assembly;      departments that interface
Update the Conduct Rules for GoU P    with the public; Conduct
civil servants on the basis of     regular follow-up surveys
intemational best practice; Make   among employees,
Vigilance Directorate the appointing  businesses and households
authority for 50% of its staff; Obtain    and publish the results.
Cabinet approval of UP Right to    By Mamh 200  Corruption
Information Act for presentation to
Legislabive Assembly; Deregulation  Prevention Unit to assist all
Committee to conduct review and    departments in preparing and
submit recommendation to GoUP for   implementing anti-corruption
implementation,                    strategies and streamlining
implementation.          ~~business processes.
2001-04: Publish annual
reports for Lok Ayukta and
Vigilance Commission;
Conduct regular follow-up
surveys of perception of
corruption; Complete
implementation of the
deregulaton program.
-38a-



Benchmarksl Policy Actions
2000-01                   2001-02 to 2003-04
Objedives                       (ApriilMarch)            (April 2001-March 2004              Outcomes
h4p*MtFFlsca/         Begin implementation of           Initiate sample surveys of   Enhanced beneficiary &
0cen&a&abon to        comprehensive training and capacity   public perception and    stakeholder participation in
5ZU"B*vA*7            building in the PRIs; Inibiate     satisfaction with the       overseeing govemment
AWSA*4kVbW            strengthening of accounts and audit   functioning and quality of  performance; Improved
AhAc&ft&ffd           of local body finances; Conduct a  services provided by the PRIs;  quality of social services and
detailed evaluation of the         Scale up the comprehensive    infrastructure maintenance in
effectiveness of decentralized    training program for PRI     the rural areas; Increased
management of state tubewells.    functionares; Implement      public accountability.
corrective measures for
tubewell management;
Publish the results of the first
annual audit of PRI finances.
RefomP,6*             Complete the divestment or closure    By March 2002: Divestment    Reduction in fiscal drain due
Eide.rls.and          of 20 units of public enterprises  or closure of at least eight  to PEs; Release of assets to
Phah&ze to Reduce     selected for the first phase including    PEs by March 2002.   private owners; Reorientation
Scope of Govemrnent   11 Sugar Mills, and 5 Textile Mills.  By March 2003:           of government role.
Reduce rsca/Bulden                                       DivestmentVclosure of at least
Palrobmanco                                              8 additional PEs by the
Working Committee
By March 2004: Divestment
or closure of remaining PEs
by the Working Committee.
Modem0 'zeM4A=&       Appoint an 'Internal Auditor' and  Complete conversion of      Improved quality of financial
Akw     e,&  Control   inibate the process of modernization    treasuries into IPAOs;  information available to the
Arcdecfture ernd ETh'/7c8  of the internal audit function; Enhance  Implement computerized  public; Improved and timely
Accountab/htv to Promote  the State's treasury function by  performance recording and  information for financial
endAns"werable        beginning to convert the treasury  reporting systems for more  management; Computerized
Govemment             offices into Integrated Pay and   result-based management;     performance recording and
Accounts Offices (IPAO); Require all  Implement the            result-based management;
departments to publish an Annual  recommendations of the       Effective legislative scrutiny
Report outlining their objectives,  feasibility study for      over financial management by
activities, costs and actual      introduction of an appropriate  the Executve.
achievements; Implement the       form of accrual accounting;
recommendations of the task force on  Implement the
the goveMment's financial         recommendations of the study
statements for public disclosure;  on modernization of the
Implement the rules for ensuring  existing State Finance and
timely response from offices to the  Accounts cadre; Consolidate
observa-tions in the C &AG audit  the internal audit function,
reports. Implement the agreed     modemize the intemal audit
special external audits by C & AG;  practices, and address the
Conduct a feasibility study for   skills mix required for a
introducing an appropriate form of  modern internal audit function.
accrual accounting.
Ill. POVERTY AND      Collect, enter, and tabulate data  Collect information on poverty   Track progress at reducing
SOCIAL                collected for the state sample of the    indicators on an annual basis;   poverty and improving living
DEVELOPMENT           NSS 55t round; Develop sample      Use new information to      conditions using a range of
frame and listing for community and    assess impact of reforms on    indicators; measure the
household monitoring system;      the poor and socially        impacts of key reform
Develop and implement a community   disadvantaged groups;      measures on poor, vulnerable,
monitoring system; Implement      Publish periodic reports on  and socially-excluded; based
second round of data collection by  progress at reducing poverty,   on this information, identfy
ESD; Publish and make available to   impact of reforms.        factors responsible for
the public the results from NSS 55Fh                           adverse outcomes and design
round and poverty module.                                      approprate mitgation
measures, also improve
impacts of policies on the
I_________________________________________________________       poor.
- 39 -



Additional Annex 9.Re form Output/Process/Outcome Indicators - Fiscal Reforms
Item                                                         Indicators
1.   Fiscal Correction   Output Indicators
I .   Cabinet Approval and tabling in the Assembly of Policy Paper on Fiscal Reforms. [Done on March 2 7, 2000]
2.   Finalization of Contingency Plan to manage potential revenue and financing shortfalls. [Done for 1999-00 by
January 2000; andfor 2000-01 by January 2001]
Long-Term Objectives:     3.   Ceiling on Debt and Guarantees. [Debt ceiling was implicit in thefiscal deficit targetfor 1999-00, which has
been overfulfilled. Guarantees - The guarantee given by the GoUP during 1999-2000 and outstanding guarantees at
the year end, were within the agreedprogram targetsI
Outcome Indicators (to be monitored annually)
To achievefiscal         4.   Fiscal Deficit - in Rupees and as % GSDP. [Overallfiscal deficit (adjusted) declinedfrom Rs. 109.6 billion
sustainability over the   (7.5% GSDP) in 1998-99 to Ps. 103.6 billion (6.4%) in 1999-00, 0. 6percentage point below the agreedprogram target;
medium-term through growth non-power deficit was reducedfrom Rs. 98.5 billion (6. 7%) to Rs. 93.5 billion (5.8%.), Rs. 4 billion lower than the agreed
oriented revenue and      benchmark.]
expenditure measures      5.   Revenue Deficit - in Rs. and as % GSDP. (Revenue deficit declinedfrom Rs. 83 billion in 1998-99 (5.6% GSDP)
to Rs.67.2 billion (4.2% of GSDP) in 1999-00]
6.   End-of-year Outstanding Debt and Guarantees - in Rs. and as % Revenue Expenditure. [Outstanding debt
was Rs 604 billion (3 7.4% of GSDP) on March 31, 2000, compared to the target ofRs 603.4 billion (37.3%); outstanding
guarantees were 2.7% of GSDP]
7.   Interest and Total Debt Servicing - in Rs. and as % Total State Revenue [Interest rosefrom Rs. 58.8 billion in
1998-99 to Rs. 65.5 billion in 1999-00; in proportion to total revenue, interest declinedfrom 34.6% to 31.4% while total
debt servicing declinedfrom 41.3% to 40.1%]
8.   Fiscal stress ratio: Interest as % Revenue Expenditure. [Interest as a percentage of Revenue Expenditure
remained at 23.6% in 1999-00, same as in the previous year; Revenue Deficit as a ratio of Revenue Receipts declined
from 45.6% to 28.9%]
2.   Expenditure          Output Indicators
Measures                  1.    Finalzation of High Priority Development Expenditures to be protected each year. [The targetfor HPDE was
enhancedfrom Rs. 100 billion in 1999-00 to Rs. 124 billion in 2000-01.A Government Order issued on July 5, 2000,
directed the departments and treasuries to give priority to the items in the HPDE list]
2.   Preparation of Strategy for Medium-Term Expenditure framework (MTEF) in 1999-00 [Strategy under
Long-Term Objectives:     discussion; Workshop by Bank experts held on December 6, 2000]
3.   Complete computerization of treasury transactions in 2000-01.
[Treasury payment systemfully computerized; Computerizedpayroll system expected to be in place by July 2001]
4.   Implementation of MTEF, beginning with 2001-02 Budget preparation .
To improve expenditure   [Decided to establish a Resource & Expenditure Commission to oversee development of MTEF beginning with 2002-03
management, efficiency of   budget preparation]
public resource allocation    5.   Pension & Provident Fund Reforms initiated in 2001-02. [Background Study has been initiated]
and the composition of    6.   Full computerization of budgeting, accounting and expenditure management by 2002-03
public spending so as to  Process Indicators (to be monitored each year)
enhance its developmental   7.   High Priority Development Expenditures during first 6 months of fiscal year, in Rupees and as ratio of
impact                    annual target [Data awaited]
8.   Expenditure on Salary and Pensions during the first 6 months of 2000-01. [Salary expenditure during
April-Sept 2000, at Rs 40.7 billion, was 50% ofthe annual target; and at Rs 12.2 billion, pension was 57% ofthe annual
target]
9.   Expenditure on Explicit Subsidies (Grants-in-Aid) during first 6 months of fiscal year, in Rupees and as ratio
of annual target. [Data awaited]
10. Net Additional Expenditure approved in Supplementary Demands during the year. [Net additional
expenditure approved in the Supplementary Demand in October 2000 was Rs. 17.4 billion or 4.7% ofthe original
expenditure budget]
Outcome Indicators
11. Improved budget compliance and fiscal discipline. [Deficit reduction target achieved in 1999-00; financing
shortfall was managed without any signifi cant cut in developmental expenditures]
12.  Priority to maintenance of existing assets over creation of new assets, and to completion of ongoing projects
over new starts [Hasformedpart of the guidelines contained in the Budget Call Circular since 1999-00]
13.  Satisfactory Performance in protecting and enhancing High Priority Developmental Expenditures. [About
93% ofthe targeted level of High Priority Development Expenditure wasprotected in 1999-00.]
14.  Reduction in the share of salary and pension payments in total expenditure. [Salaries declinedfrom 24% of
total expenditure and net lending in 1998-99 to 23% in 1999-00. Pensions rosefrom 6% to 7% in the same period]
15.  Reduction in the share of explicit subsidies in total expenditure [Total grants-in-aid declined from 28.6% of total
expenditure in 1998-99to 26.4% in 1999-00]
16. Increased expenditure flexibility [Share of salaries, pensions and interest payments in total expenditure declined
from 51.4% in 1998-99 to 49.8% in 1999-00]
17.  Increase in the share of capital outlays and non-wage O&M [Capital outlays increasedfrom 1.4% of GSDP in
1998-99 to 1.5% in 1999-00]
-40 -



3.   Revenue Measures    Output Indicators
I .   Reduction in the number of Trade Tax rates. [Subsequent to the introduction of uniformfloor rates in January
2000, the number of rates werefurther reduced to 8 main and 4 special rates in Jan 2001, from 11 main and 6 special
rates;further rationalization under consideration, based on consultant report of Dr. Govinda Rao]
Long-Term Objectives:     2.   Amendment of Trade Tax Act to strengthen anti-evasion efforts. [Amendment enacted in March 2000;
implementation being initiated in a phased manner starting in March 2001]
3.   Identification of potential taxpayers who are outside the tax net [Survey conducted in 1999-00 showed that
15% of those surveyed needed to be registered but were not]
TO enhance the state's own   4.   External Audit of Trade Tax Department [Following an objection by the Law Department of the State to the
revenue base, create afair,   violation ofprivacy rights of businesses, internal audit has been strengthened instead of external audit]
simple and high compliance  5.   Introduction of New Taxes (Entry Tax) [Entry Tax introduced in November 1999. Cabinet gave clearancefor
tax system and improve cost  tax on crude oil, machines and spare parts and natural gas in December 1999. Extended to include tobacco and
recoveryfrom publicly     non-levy sugar in 2000-01]
provided private and       6.   Phasing out of Tax Holidays [Accomplished effectivefrom February 2000]
semi-private goods and    7.   Reorganization, modernization and computerization of Trade Tax Administration [Computerization piloted;
services                  Functional reorganization ongoing with technical assistance]
8.   Increase in user charges for irrigation, higher education and hospital care [Total revenuefrom user charges
increasedfrom Rs. 7.2 billion in 1998-99 to Rs. 10.3 billion in 1999-00. Revenuefrom user charges in education
increasedfrom Rs. 1.01 bin to Rs. 1.38 bin over the sameperiod]
Process Indicators (to be monitored monthlvl/uarterlvlannuallv)
9.   Percentage rise in tax collected from manufacturers within UP, adjusted for inflation [Registered an increase
of about 75% in real terms, during thefirst 3 quarters of2000-01, compared to the same period of the previous year]
10.  Percentage rise in tax collected from non-manufacturing dealers, adjusted for infin [Data awaited]
11.  Value of "recorded" goods imported (i.e. from outside UP) through railway /post offices compared to previous period
12.  Value of "recorded" goods imported by road and recorded on form 31 compared to previous period [There
was an increase ofabout 7% during thefirst 3 quarters of2000-0l. Compared to the same period of the previous year]
13. Total monthly collections from Trade Tax, with and without petroleum products [Trade tax collected during
April 2000-January 2001, excludingfrom petrol/diesel, was Rs. 32.68 billion (increase of2O.6% over previous year in
nominal terms); including petrol/diesel it was Rs. 45.72 billion (increase of 19.6% over previous year]
14.  Number oftaxable dealers who file declarations [Number of 'registered' dealers increased by 3ofrom 190,398
in 1999-00 to 196024 in 2000-01]
15.  Half-yearly collections from the 1000 dealers with the largest turnover [The total tax recovered during
April-September 2000 was 76% higher than during the same period of the previous year]
16.  Net Recoverable Arrears - in Rupees and as ratio of total taxes due [Net recoverable arrears (provincial) were
Rs. 964 crores in August 2000]
17.  Annualnumber ofcases under appeal and value under dispute [In 1999-00, there were 115,780appeals
(60,586past and 55,194 new appeals). There were 64,133 disputed appeals amounting to Rs. 33.24 billion. The number
ofpending appeals were 51,647 and amounted to Rs. 9.6 billion]
18.  Proportion of staff in Trade Tax Department assigned to enforcement [In 1999-00, ofatotal of 1206 officers
and 1419 employee in the Trade Tax Departments, 42% and 22% respectively were involved in enforcement work]
19.  Number of staffin Trade Tax Department using computers in dailywork[During July-September 2000-01,
17% of officers and 0.1% of employees were usingcomputers compared to 0.5% and 3% over the previousquarter, i.e.,
April-June 2000-01]
Outcome Indicators
21. Improved voluntary tax compliance
22.  Reduced transactions costs for pfivate business operating in UP
23.  Increase in the State's Own Tax Revenue - from 5.4% GSDP in 1998-99 to 7.6% by 2003-04;
24.  Increase in the rate of cost recovery from canal irrigation - from less than 20% currently to 50% by 2003-04
- 41 -



Additional Annex 10.Re form Output/Process/Outcome Indicators - Governance Reforms
Item                                                            Indicators
1.      Establish Polcy and         Process/Output Indicators
Institutional Frame-work for        1.         Approval ofPolicy Papers on Governance and Civil Service Renewal [Done. Papers were
Major Govern-ment Reform            app  vedbyCabinet and tabledin theAssembly in March 200.]
Program                             2.         Cabinet Committee to provide overall guidance and direction for reform effort [Cabinet
Long-Term Objective:                Committee on EconomicAffairs headed by the Chief Minister has been given responsibilityfor this effort.]
3.        Governance and CSR Core Group, headed by the Chief Secretary [CSR Core Group
To ensure successful reforms by     Headed by Chief Secretary functioning actively]
creating appropriate policyand      4.         Publication of Departmental annual reports [Performance budget being published and
institutionalarrangementsfor        presented in the Assembly].
providing guidance and oversight
I. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
I.      Review and Rationalize      Process/Output Indicators
All Departments                     I.         Establish Policy Planning Celis and complete intra-departmental functional reviews
[Policy Planning Cells established in 53 major departments and intra-departmental reviews initiated. The
Long-Termn Objectives:              cells are meeting every three months on average. Approximately 38functional reviews have been
completed and submitted to relevant secretaries]
To enhance efficiency,              2.         Establsh Technical Working Group to the CSR Core Group and complete
effec-tiveness andproductivity by   inter-departmental functional reviews [Technical Working Group yet to be established, due to delays in
rationalizing, realigning and       procuring appropriate technical assistance for implementation.]
reengineering departments and       3.         Integrate reviews into a comprehensive report for rationalization (with TA), which is
reenginering deprtmentsapproved by Cabinet [Yet to be done]
To eliminate functions andi tasks   4.         Phased rationalization of departments to begin on I October 2001 and be completed by
December 31, 2004. Number of departments rationalzed to be carefully monitored to e;.sure
that are no longer needed or bring  implementation does not slip [Clustering of related departments along sectoral lines has begun]
little value added so that the      5.         Develop and implement appropnate organizational performnance indicators for all Departments
government can con-centrate upon    by December 31, 2004
high priority areas                 Outcome Indicators
To save overhead costs by           6.         Substantial reduction in the number of departments towards intemational norms, with significant
reduc-ing administrative and        savings in overhead and administrative costs
supportfunctions and involving      7.         Ratiosialization of organizational structure, business processes, staffing, and products and
more staff in front-line tasks of   services for remaining departments, starting with PWD, Irrigation, Forestry, Health and Tax and
service delivery                    Trade, by December 31,2002 [Signif cant progress has been made in Forestry. Detailed plans are
currently being made in Health, PWD and Irrigation. Exercise on functional reorganization is ongoing in
To enhance effectiveness by        the Trade Tax Department.]
increasingly shifting focus from    8.         Significant improvement in the ratio of front-line staff vis-a-vis support and administrative staff
compliance to outputs and           for all departments consistent with best practice in Indian states and elsewhere.
outcomes                            9.         Significant increase in the number of functions that are privatized and/or
commercialized consistent with best practice in Indian states and elsewhere [Selective progress to date
in some departments, such as PWD.]
-42 -



2.     Ensure a Global Annual      ProcessOutsst Indicators
Reduction in av2 l Service Size    I         Initiate a review of civil service terms and conditions in comparison with global and
by at Least 2% for Next Five       Indian best practice to identify opffons for greater flexibility in downsizing and redeployment and
Years                            implement study recommendations [Yet to be done]
2.        Abolish unfilled positions identified as redundant [Approximately 15,000 posts, or 1. 7%O,
Lo.g-Ter-m Objectives:  have been abolished to date, since the program began in 1999-00]
Long-Term ObJectives:              3.          Identify alternatives to the practice of compensatory/compassionate employment [
e        .afforda-bilty  Alternatives under consideration]
ofsrhe civil service               Outcome Indicators
4.        Global reduction in civil service size of at least 2% annually [Size ofcivil service
Improve productivity by            reportedly declined by 1% during FY 1999/2000 and an estimated 1.6% in FY2000/01. More reliable
re-deploying staff to more         data on personnel in place are expected once the computerizedpayroll is infunctional, i.e., by July 2001]
valu-able tasks                    5.        Number of position establishments abolished or redeployed annually by department, with
substantial savings in staffing and wage bill in key departments (Le. PWD, Health, Irrigation and
Alow for greater managerial       Forestry), consistent with findings of institutional reviews [Over 60 divisions abolished in PWD and
flexibility by expanding optionsfor  Irrigation; however, excess staffstill remain. Approximately 5,000 staff awaiting transfer to surplus labor
redeployment and re-trenchment    pool in Department ofAdministrative Reformsfor redeployment.]
6.        Major reduction (i.e. greater than 50%) in casual and work charged employees by FY 2004
End "entitlement mentality"
regardingjobs in the public sector
-43 -



3.                                   Process/Output Indicators
1.         Computerized human resource database established and regularly updated, so GoUP can
Improve Human Resource              immediately produce accurate and timely information on the size and composition of the civil service.
Management                           [Ongoing].
Long-Tern Objectives.                2.         Annual Transfer Policy to be finalized and guidelines publicized; consultative mechanism
adopted to oversee transfers for all classes and cadres; and departmental budgets for transfers
To ensure access to accurate,       desegregated and strictly monitored. [Annual Transfer Policypublished in May 2000. Frequency of
timely information regarding the     transfers continued to be a major concern until September 2000, although there has been some
size and composition ofthe civil    improvement in recent months. Effectiveness of consultative mechanism to oversee transfers is doubtful.]
service                              3.         Class I and 1I positions classified for rational and judicious placement [Requirement for
thepost and officers background are kept in view while makingplacements]
To improve productivity by4.                GoUP to study Annual Confidential Report (ACR) process to improve its effectiveness as
To improve productivitye by          a tool for human resource management and implement recommendations. fImplemented in the
stafferansfers and postings and      Forestry Department, U.P. Jal Nigam, Irrigation Department Under considerationfor secretariat / Head
allowing public sector managers      ofDepartment]
andb disctretionagins 5.         GoUP allocates 1% of annual departmental wage bill for training aggregate and by
greaterfreedom and discretion In     department [A Government Order to this effect has been issued. Expenditure on training rosefrom Rs 3.2
managing their staff                 crore in 1999-00 to an estimated Rs. 11.7 crore in 2000-01]
To enhance meritocracyby6.       Department of Personnel arid Appointments to publish regular annsual report on size and
To enhance meritocracy by           composition of the senior civil service, demographic profile, average tenure in office, annual screening
strengthening the process of         procedures, and number of staff reprimanded for corruption and maladminisitration; other departments to also
performance monitoring and           do the same for senior officials in their annual reports
evaluation                           7.         Departments certify that screening is performed on an annual basis [Done.]
Outcome Indicators
To improve the quality and skills
mix ofthe workforce by improving     8.         Average tenure increases for Class I and 11 officers
human resource development           9.        Improved utilization of ACR process in transfers and promotions
10.        Significant increase in the numbers of staff given early retirement through screening
11.       Improved staffing in key skill categories (i.e. water resource management, traffic management
rural nursing)
12.       Numbers of staff rewarded for good performance and reprimanded for non-performnance
13.       Expenditure on training and number of staff trained by department; number of staff with
multi-task skills
- 44 -



II. DEREGULATION AND ANTICORRUPTION
1.     Deregulation                Process/Output Indicators
Long-Term Objectives:              1.         Establish Deregulation Committee [Committee established on October 28, 1999 and began
functioning on January 13, 2000. It has held 49 meetings with Departmental Secretaries and 68 internal
To reduce the administrative       meetings.]
burden on the state, facilitate    2.         Each department complete its internal review and submit theem to the Deregulation
private sector growth, and          Committee for consideration by I July 2000 [Approximately 58 departmentsformed Deregulation
enhance equity and access among    Committees and submitted reports.]
impoverished groups                3.         Deregulation Committee to submit its first review and recommendations to GoUP by 1
October 2000 [Reportpublished on November 5, 2000. The initial report made 615 recommendations
To radically simplify regula-tions  concerning the workof4Odepartments. The quality ofthese recommendations is variable. The
to ensure they are readily         Committee's tenure was recently extended by six months, with theprospect offurther extensions as
understood, unambiguous in their   needed.]
application, andstraightforward    4.         Based on these recommendations, GoUP to formulate a time-bound program to
to implement                       streamline and modernize the laws, rules and regulations applicable in UP and inifate the
implementation of such a program [Underprogress; yet to be completed]
To make the rule-making process
more transparent                   Outcome Indicators
5.        Substantial reduction and modemization in the number of state acts, rules and regulations/orders
currently being administered by the departments, in line with best ptactice among Indian states
6.        Enhance transparency and stakeholder partcipation in the regutatory process by engaging
business and civil society in the work of the Deregulation Committee
-45 -



2.                                 Process/Output Indicators
.Accountabity       1.        Regular stakeholder surveys to monitor performance [Initial three surveys conducted of
Strengthen Key ACouption           generalpublic, traders and civil servants towards corruption. Further surveys are plannedfor some key
Bnis  a                            departments.]
BodIes                            2.         Increase in funding and staffing for key accountability institutions to compare favorably
Long-Term Objectives:              with per capita funding in other Indian states [Increases occurring in a phased manner in line with
agency absorptive capacity. Vigilance Establishment budgetforyear FY2000-01 has increased by 12.9%
Ta reduce corrup-tion and          over expenditure in FY 1999-00, albeitfrom a very low base.]
mal-administrahion by              3.         Vigilance Establishment and Lok Ayukta to have greater independence in recruitment
maren-adninirainsm by              and transfer of staff, and improvement in the ratio of front-line staff to administrative staff to
strengthening mecha-nisms for      compare favorably with other Indian states [The Lok Ayukta is empowered to recruit and appoint more
detecting, investigat-ing and      juniorstaff while seniorstaffare appointed only with the concurrence ofthe LokAyukta.J
sanctioning improper behavior,     4.         Task Force report on mandate, staffing, budget, organizational structure, business processes,
while ensuring these nst tuti ons  regulations and guidelines and performance indicators completed and integrated into broader GoUP
operate within an appropriate      anticoruption strategy, along with surveys, stakeholder workshops, and anticorruption strategies for key
accountabilityframework            departments with significant revenue, expenditure or regulatory responsibilities
5.        Publication of survey results, along with GoUP anticorruption strategy, by 31 October
To combat corruption pro-actively  2000, with implementation to begin immediately [ To bepublished]
by strengtheningpreventive         6.         Update and disseminate Conduct Rules for GoUP civil servants not subject to All India rules on
measures in central and line       the basis of international best practice
departments                        7.         Regular submission of annual Lok Ayukta reports to the Assembly [GoUP hasformally
tabledpending reportsfrom 1990 to 1994 in the State Assembly. Remaining reports to be tabled in the
budget session in early 2001.]
S.        Corruption Prevention Unit established and actively working with core and depatrnental
3.      Develop and Isplement      agencies to reduce opportunities for corruption (by March 2003)
Anticorruption Strategies          Outcome Indicators
9.        Increased awareness and utilization of Lok Ayukta function by the public and of Vigilance
Long-Term Objectives:              Establshment by civil service [Role andfunctions of Lok Ayukta are being given widepublicity.
Additionalfunds sanctionedfor the LokAyuktafor thispurpose. A websitefor the Vigilance Department
To create an integrated,flexi-ble  has been set up. Role andfunctions of the Vigilance establishment and other anti-corruption bodies are
and responsive ant-icorruption     publicized through the website.]
strategy based upon solid          t0.        Reduction in average investigation times and adjudication times for administrative and criminal
empirical evidence and regular     cases
stakeholderfeedback                11.        Increased number of investigations and reduction in case backlogs [Number of corruption
related cases in which prosecution was approved was 3 75 during April-December 2000, compared to
To effectively implement the       around 100 in the same period ofthe previous year.]
strategy, with particular atten-tion  12.     Improved sanction and conviction rate [There were 44 "trap" cases during the year 2000,
tofosteringsuccessful              involving 49 ofxicials who were caught red handed]
anticorruption efforts at the      13.        Successful prosecution of a few "high profile' cases [A senior lASofficer was recently
departmental level                 compulsorily retiredfrom servicefor corruption.]
14.       Number of concrete examples where regulatory reform, processes reengineering and other
preventive measures have significantly reduced corruption.
15.       Stakeholder surveys indicate increasing public satisfaction with anticonuption effort and
decreasing perceptions of corruption, particularly in departments with substantial revenue and expenditure
responsibilities or regulatory functions.
-46 -



4.     Undertake Actions to        Process/Output Indicators
Make Government More Open
and Responsive To Citizen Needs    1.         Citizen's Charters with clear specification of service standards and remedial measures
prepared and widely publicized for all departments with major public interface. [Citizen charters have
been issuedfor several departments; they need to be widely publicized and steps need to be taken to
Long-Term Objective:               ensure effective implementation of charters (redesigning business procedures providing managerial
flexibility, sensitizing employees to the new standards, and instituting userfeedback mechanisms)]
To improve government              2.         Cabinet approval of a code of access for government documents based upon United
per-formance, accountability and    Kingdom practice and draft UP Right to Information Act. [Go UP has approved a code of accessfor
responsiveness by improving the    government documents but it is very restrictive and applied to only three departments sofar.]
public's access to informa-tion    3.         Each department to publish a brochure outlining their organ-izational structure, mission
and engaging civil society in      and objectives, staffing profile, annual budget, services, compendium of relevant govemnment orders
providing informedfeedback on       and contact points for further information by I March 2000 [ This information is available in Annual
the quality of government services  reports websites and official directories].
4.         Each department to review and redesign public grievance redress system and publicize
relevant procedures. [ Government oders already exists. Grievances are being monitored by the
Directorate of Lok Shikayats (Public grievances) ]
5.        Number of departmental web pages and accessibility of GoUP forms ontheInternet. [At
least 16 major departments have created their respective web pages; the Transport Department has 30
forms available to be downloaded, including the applicationform for a driver's license Major initiative
taken by Information Technology Department to develop a single U.P. Govt. Website.]
Outcome Indicators
6.        Survey data indicates increased awareness on the part of the public (and particularly the poor)
regarding the quality of services they can expect and utilization of grievance procedures
7.        Survey data for officials indicates increased awareness and concern about transparency and the
public's right of access to information
8.        Enhanced information flow regarding service standards and quality measured through by web
page use and surveys ofNGOs and civil society
111. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM AND PRIVATIZATION
Outut Indicators
Long-Term Objectives:
I.        Cabinet approval of the PE Reform Policy (Done; Policy tabled in the Assembly in March
Government to withdrawfrom the     2000]
provision of goods and services    2.         Cabinet approval of procedures for implementation [Drafts of the overall transactions
that can be provided more          manual and of the environmental guidelines having been produced during February 2001]
efTiciently by the private sector,  3.        Divestment/closure of PEs selected for the first phase, by March 2001 [Done; 20 units,
through divestment or closure of   including 1/ sugar mills and S textile mills, have been closed; the assets of two enterprises have been
those public enterprises that either  sold]
compete with the private sector or  4.        Number of units divested or closed on an annual basis [See point 31
are commercial in nature
Process Indicators
5.        Value of assets sold each year [Value of assets sold from Ist Phase enterprises is Rs 50
crores]
6.        Number of employees retrenched/retired in each year [About  11 000 workers have
departed with VRS packages in thefirst phase of the program]
7.        Number of enterprises remaining under public ownership at the end of each year iThere
will be 4 7 remaining under public ownership by the end of March 2001]
8.        Fiscal savings from closure/privatization ITo be calculated]
Outcome Indicators
9.        Substantial fiscal savings
10.       Improved economic efficiency
IV. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
- 47 -



Outnut Indicators
Long-Term Objectives.
1.        Cabinet approval of Strategy for Strengthening Financial Managenent and
Greater availability of information  Accountability [Done in March 2000; Next step is to prepare a more detailed implementation plan]
concerning thefinances of the      2.        Task Force to recommend the form, content and presentation of finandal statements for
State amongst the general public   public disclosure [Task Force has almost completed its work on theformat of the half-yearlyfinancial
and media, leading to increased    statements and the accounting system required tofacilitate preparation of these statements; finalization of
transparency                       Report is pending]
3.        Feasbility Study for accrual accounting financial statements and the accountng system
Enhanced accountability of the     required to facilitate preparation of these statements. [Recruitment of consultants is underway]
Executive to the Legislature       4.        Study to modernize State Finance and Accounts Cadre. [Recruitment of consultants is
underway]
Integrated computerizedfinancial   S.        Timely Respone to observations In the C&AG audit reports. [Progress is slow.
management system that would       Government has set a 90-day rulefor responding to CAG reports. However, responses to 550 out of 583
facilitate results-based           "paras" in the CAG's Reportfor 1998-99 (tabled on May 17, 2000) are pending, and to 158 Out of 587 7
management                        paras " in the CAG 's reportfor 1997-98 are pending]
Process Indicators
Modern internal auditfunction      6.        Time taken between C&AG audit queries and departmental responses [Data on time taken
which provides continuous          to respond is not available, eitherfor responses to 'Drafi Paras' orfor response to thefinal CAG Report]
oversight over the activities of the  7.     Deviations between Budget Etimates, Revised Estimatu and Audited Accounts figures of
State                              revenue and expenditure, by major categories.
Outcome Indicators I Too early to measure outcome indicators since the process is only starting noa4
Reconstituted and better trained
finance and accounts cadre         8.         Improved quality of financial infomnation available to the public
capable ofproviding efficient      9.        Improved and timely information for financial management
financial management services.     10.        Computerized performance recording and result-based management
-48 -



Additional Annex 11.Pover ty and Social Impact Indicators: Table 1
Item                                             Indicators
1. Establish a system to   Process/Output Indicators
monitor and evaluate the  1.    Set up monitoring units in the Chief Secretary's Office and the Department of
impacts of the overall    Planning
reform program on the    2.    Agree on initial set of quantitative poverty monitoring indicators, viz.
poor and other socially
disadvantaged groups.    Consumption and Income
1.    GSDP growth (Agriculture, Manufacturing, Industry, Services, Total)
Long Term Objectives:    Source and Periodicity: UP Directorate of Economics and Statistics ( DES), Annual
To maximize impacts of    state series.
reform-led growth on the   Current Baseline Estimates: Here and below see "Poverty and Social Impact Indicators
poor;                    --Table2."
To identify emerging     2.    Per-capita monthly expenditures (Food items, Education, Health, Other, Total)
adverse impacts of
specific reform measures   Source and Periodicity: Quinquennial NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey, central and
and design appropriate    state samples. Every five years. Most recent estimates, 1999-00
mitigation measures;     3.    Poverty: Headcount, Poverty-gap, FGTP2 measure (i.e. severity of poverty)
To support better
informed policy making    Source and Periodicitv: Quinquennial NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey central and
and program design       state samples. Every five years. Most recent estimates, 1993-94 (Proposed: annual
To inform the pubic at   poverty estimates forecast based on trends in key determinates of poverty - levels and
large about the success or  structure of growth, development spending, inflation)
otherwise of the reform
piogram.
Emplovment and Wages
4.    Wages (Agriculture, Non-Agriculture) and (proposed) prices
Source and Periodicit : UP DES, monthly monitoring at block and district level.
5.    Employment Status (Employed, Under-employed, Unemployed, Out of Labor
force, )
Source and Periodicitv: UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal, sampling,
periodicity and design to be discussed and finalized with GOUP after release of baseline
report and internal discussions. To be supplemented by multiple sources such as
Quinquennial NSS Consumer Expenditure Survey, Employment/Unemployment
module(every 5 years) and Population Census of India (every 10 years). Most recent
estimates, 1999-00 (forthcoming)
- 49 -



Health
6.    Percentage of children that have been immunized (Boys, Girls, Overall)
Source and Periodicit : UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. To be
supplemented by administrative data from the relevant line departments and
cross-checked against National Famnily Health Survey (NFHS), NSSO special purpose
surveys state and central samples, and Department of Health data. Most recent
estimates, 1999-00 (forthcoming)
7.     Infant Mortality Rate (Boys, Girls, Overall)
Source and Periodicity: UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. (Note that
PSMS module uses a different method to estimate IMRs and CMRs) Alternative
estimates provided by the Sample Registration System (SRS) on annual basis.
Cross-checked against National Family Health Survey (NFHS-2), repeated every five
years. Most recent estimates, 1999-00 (forthcoming). NFHS-2 in 1998-99.
Education
8.    Literacy (Men, Women, SC/ST, Overall)
Source and Periodicitv: UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. To be
supplemented by administrative data from the Department of Education, and
cross-checked against National Family Health Survey (NFHS-2), NSSO Quinquennial
and special purpose surveys, state and central samples. Most recent estimates, 1999-00
(forthcoming), also Feb, 2001 - India Population Census.
9.  Enrollment rates for children aged 5-14 years (Boys, Girls, SC/ST, Overall)
Source and Periodicitv: UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. To be
supplemented by administrative data from the Department of Education, and
cross-checked against National Family Health Survey (NFHS-2), NSSO special purpose
surveys, state and central samples. Most recent estimates, 1999-00, forthcoming.
10.  Drop-out rates for children aged 5-14years (Boys, Girls, SC/ST, Overall)
Source and Periodicity: Administrative data from the UP Education Department,
annual. Most recent estimates, tbd
11.  Completion rates for children, primary, secondary, (Boys, Girls, SC/ST, Overall)
Source and Periodicitv: UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. To be
supplemented by administrative data from the Department of Education, and
cross-checked against National Family Health Survey (NFHS-2), NSSO special purpose
surveys state and central samples. Most recent estimates, 1999-00, forthcoming.
Housing Conditions
12.  Percentage of households living in slum areas
Source and Periodicit : SUDA administrative data, periodicity not known
13.  Percentage of households having latrine facilities in their house
- 50 -



Source and Periodicit : UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55"
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. Current
estimates, 1999-00, forthcoming.
14. Distribution of households according to source of drinking water
As in 13
15. Percentage of households living in electrified dwellings
As in 13
Participation in Government Proerams
16.  Percentage of persons benefitingfrom employment/welfare schemes (public
works, TPDS, Other government anti-poverty programs, IRDP, etc.)
Source and Periodicity: UP DES, baseline set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55"
round, follow-up through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. Current
estimates, 1999-00, forthcoming.
17.  Health (percentage ofpregnant women registeredfor prenatal care during last
one year and Percentage of deliveries attended by Doctor/Trained Nurse/Dai during
last one year)
As in 16
18. Education (Percentage of children enrolled in non-formal or alternative
schooling programs and Percentage of 0-5 year-olds attending ICDS anganwadis)
As in 16
Awareness of Health Proerams and Social Rights
19. Percentage of households aware of thefollowing: Immunization of children,
vaccination ofpregnant women, Iodized salts, Use of ORT, Contraceptives, Minimum
wage act, Child Labor Prevention act, Dowry prohibition act, Prevention of Atrocities
against SC/ST, Child marriage prevention act.
As in 16
Access to Facilities/Services
Distance to nearestfacility/service (within village, upto 2 km, 2-5 km, 5-10 kin, 10+ km)
Metalled Road, Other roads, Railway station, Bus stop, Police station, Post office,
Telegraph road, PCO, Block headquarter, Bank, Regular market, Rural weekly market,
Fair price shop, Junior basic school, Senior basic school, High school /Higher
secondary school, Non-formal education center, Total literacy center, Veterinary
hospital / stockman center, Hospital /dispensary, Maternity center, Anganwadi center,
Cinema, Library, Sales point of agricultural inputs, TRYSEM training center, Perennial
source of drinking water, Cooperative society
Source and Periodicity: administrative data from the relevant line departments,
proposed as a part of the UP Human Development Initiative, data base development.
Periodicity to be determined, likely ever 2-3 years.
- 51 -



Ouality of Services
For health: availability of medical staff in government facilities, availability of
essential medicines For education, teacher qualifications and training, teacher
attendance, hours of classroom instruction, availability of textbooks and other supplies,
etc. For water and sanitation, number and location of tubewells and other drinking
water sources, quality of water, number of months water available for specific wells,
quantity of water available during dry seasons.
Source and Periodicity: data on perceptions about quality of selected services are to be
collected by UP DES through light/priority survey agreed in project proposal. The
baseline has been set by Poverty Module, state-sample 55" round, sampling, periodicity
and design of the follow-up surveys is to be discussed and finalized with GOUP after
release of baseline report and intemal discussions. These data is to be augmented by
quantitative indicators from administrative data from the relevant line departments. It
is proposed to collect more extensive and disaggregated indicators, including indicators
of access, quality, and satisfaction through facility surveys and as a part of district
monitoring system.
3.    Undertake a five-year program of data collection, including
(i)         baseline poverty monitoring surveys
Progress, Immediate Next Steps. A baseline household survey, gathering information
on most of the agreed monitoring indicators, was undertaken in conjunction with the
state-sample of the NSS 55" round (Schedule 99, Poverty Module). The focus of the
module was on outcome measures linked to service delivery and special programs for
the poor, as well as a limited amount of information on user views and satisfaction.
These data are now being tabulated and discussed with counterparts in GOUP. A joint
GOUP/WB baseline report is under preparation, which draws on these data,
administrative data, and other sources in establishing a project baseline.
(ii)        annual special purpose surveys (e.g. indicators of service delivery at the
local level).
Progress. Immediate Next Steps. It was agreed at the outset of the project that regular,
periodic monitoring surveys would be implemented once the baseline was established.
Further, modalities would be agreed based on capacity of DES, agreed sources of
information, and agreed periodicity. Discussions are being initiated with DES/Planning
on the coverage, sample design, and periodicity of regular monitoring surveys. It is
unlikely that these will be combined with the ongoing NSS state sample, both for
reasons of geographic coverage and desired disaggregation as well as breadth of
information needed. It is desirable that the first of these surveys be launched in January,
2002, two years after the mid-point of the baseline survey and well enough into the
reform initiative that there may be evidence of real improvements (e.g. in delivery of key
services). Note that no new survey work should be undertaken until the national and
state sample frames are redone based on the 2001 Population Census (hopefully by Jan,
2002).
(ii)        community-based monitoring in high profile districts.
- 52 -



Progress, Immediate Next StePs. Following on earlier discussions, a draft proposal has
been prepared with close links to performance monitoring and the governance
component of the program. This will be discussed and agreements reached shortly
(planned June, 2001) on initial actions required for implementing a pilot program.
There are still outstanding questions regarding the role of DES and line departments
within GOUP, and the advisability of involving local research organizations or NGOs in
providing an audit function on administrative data. Note that one of the key objectives
of the district level work is to improve the quality and accessibility of the vast amount of
information collected by various implementing departments at the block and district
level.
(iv)       monitoring of regionally disaggregated intermediate indicators (e.g.
prices, wages)
Progress. Immediate Next Steps. Price and wage data are collected on a monthly basis.
Work is underway to develop a database system to make these data more readily
available as well as reporting formats.
( v)        participatory studies, monitoring of qualitative outcome
indicators.
Progress. Immediate Next Steps. These will be discussed after building stronger
analytic and monitoring capacity in the Planning Department, and getting the
fundamentals of the statistical system better in place.
4.   Institute regular reporting process, undertake policy and program analysis to
inform decision making, particularly linked to reforms
Baseline data and first report under preparation. Further plans to be discussed and
agreed over next 4-6 months.
5.    Disseminate reports widely to public at large as well as a range of stakeholders,
undertake information workshops, other dissemination exercises.
GoUP held informal workshop to discuss draft UP Poverty Assessment and UP PSMS
in October. 2000. which was attended by a number of non-government individuals,
including staff from several well-known research institutes. Planning follow on
meetings when UP Poverty Assessment is released, also to disseminate findings of
baseline monitoring report. Further dissemination efforts to be discussed, including
broader dissemination on information at the local level.
Outcome Indicators
1.    Reductions in poverty levels, including measurable improvements in backward
districts.
2.   Improvements in living conditions for vulnerable groups, especially socially
excluded or marginalized groups.
- 53 -



Additional Annex 12.Pove rty and Social Impact Indicators - Table 2 (current baseline
estimates)
POVER7YAND SOCIAL IMPACT/ND/CATORS- Table 2(cunrentbaseline estfmates}
Geographicl                                    Reporting
social group            Data Sources           Periodicity                Current baseline estimateslsource
disaggregation            .
Consum,ofon and lncome Annual growth rate
State         UP DES, Annual state series   Annually    Gross State Domnestic product:
1997-98 0.1%; 1998-99 -6.9%; 1999-00 5.7%;
Agriculture and Allied Services:
1997-98 -4.4%; 1998-99 2.7%;  1999-00 5.7%;
Industry:      1997-98 -0.2%; 1998-99 14.3%; 1999-00 5.4%;
Services:      1997-98  4.8%; 1998-99 6.5%; 1999-00 5.9%.
Source: UP DES, at 1993-94,pnces
Per-capita monthly expenditure
State, Urban/Rural,   Quinquennial NSS Consumer    Every 5    1999-00: Rs./person/month (30 day reference period)
NSS Regions;      Expenditure Survey, central     years     Total expenditures    466.7 (100%)
Poor - non-poor,    and state samples.                      Total food          268.0 (57.4%)
SCIST - majority                                             Cereals              98.0 (21.0%)
Education            10.5 (2.2%)
Medical             38.6 (8.3%)
Soarce: 55 Round NSSO, central sample.
Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Poverty: Headcount, Poverty-ap, FGT P2 measure (seventy of poverty)
State, Urban/Rural,   Quinquennial NSS Consumer    Every 5    Current Baseline Estimates not available, pending resolution of intemal
NSS regions;     Expenditure Survey, central     years     discussion on comparability of NSS 55t round with previous rounds of
SC/ST majority    and state samples.                         the NSS. (see UP poverty assessment for fuller details)
Forecasting model in
intervening years
Employment and wages: Wages (agdculture, non-agricultuim) and (proposed) prices
State, Urban/Rural,    UP DES, monthly monitoring at   . Monthly    See below *
District            block and district level.
- 54 -



Geographic/                                     Reporting
Social group            Data Sources            Perlodicity               Current baseline estimatesfsource
disaggregation  j
Employmerit Status (Note that different defln/mons are used byLO and NSSO)
State,            Baseline set by UP DES             To be      Indicator reflecting ILO definition is being processed based on 55t1
Urban/Rural, NSS   administered Poverty Module,    finalized,    state sample.
Regions;          state-sample 55t round, follow-    anticipate 12-
Poor - non-poor;    up through light/priority survey  18 months    1999-00: Employment status according to principal usual status
SC/ST - majority   agreed in project proposal,                 (primary and subsidiary activities), number of persons per 1000
sampling and design to be                    pplto    SOdfnto
discussed and finalized with                 populaton - NSSO definition
GOUP after release of baseline               Note that this measure is different from employmentratewhich is
report and internal discussions.             calculated as a ratio of working individual over those who work or
Quinquennial NSS Consumer        5 years    looking for work, among the working-age population- ILO definition
Expenditure Survey-                          Rural                       Urban
Employment/Unemployment                      Men      Women  All         Men      Women  All
module, central and state                    481      201       345      490      94       304
samples.                                     Source. 55h Round NSSO, centra/sample.
10 years    Data is forthcoming
Populaton Census of India
hbealf. Pementage of children that have been immunized
State,            Baseline set by UP DES            To be       Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Urban/Rural;      administered Poverty Module,     finalized,
NSS Regions;      state-sample 55ih round, follow-    anticipate 12-
Poor - non-poor;    up through light/priority survey  18 months
SC/STr- n         agreed in project proposal,
SC/ST - majority;   sampling and design to be
Boys - girls      discussed and finalized with
GOUP after release of baseline
report and internal discussions.
Data is forthcoming
Administrative data
5 years    1998-99, 12-23 months age group: 29.5% had no vaccinations
Sample survey of households                                                21.2% had all vaccinations
such as National Family Health                Source. :Wation7aFamndv Hea//h Sun'ey(H'FhS-2) Inhemat/enal
Survey (NFHS-2)                              Institute for Population Stud/es, Measure DHS, ORC Macro
- 55 -



GeographicW                                       Reporling
social group              Data Sources           Pe{ dic   i                   Cunent baseline estimatesesource
.disaggregationI
Infant Mortality
State, Urban/Rural;    Sample Registration System,     Annual    1998:85 death per 1000 live births
NSS Regions;         Office of the Registrar General              Source: Office of the Registtrar General
Poor - non-poor;     (ORG)
SC/ST - majority;                                      5 years    1998- 1999: Number of death per 1,000 live birth, 0-4 years preceding
Boys - g irls        Sample survey of households                  tesre  ovll           1
such as National Family Health              the survey -overall   116
Survey (NFHS-2)                             Source: NationatlFamily Heal/th Survey(NFHS-2) international lnstAtule for
Population Studies, Measure DHS ORC Macro
Education. Literacy
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES                          To be      Data from 55t round state sample is being processed
NSS Regions;                                          finalized,
Poor - non-poor;                                     12-18 mos
SC/ST - majority;
Boys --girls         Sample survey of households
such as National Family Health   5 years    1998-99: Men - 71.8%  Women - 62.7%
Survey (NFHS)                                Source: National Family Health Survey(NFHS-2) Intemational Institute for
Population Studies Measure D/HS ORCMacro
Population Census of India       10 years   Feb, 2001: Men -70.9%   Women -51.2%   AI-61.1%
Source. Census of India 2001
Enrollment rates for children aged 5-14 years
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES                          To be      Data from 55t state sample is being processed
NSS Regions;                                          finalized,
Districts;                                           12-18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SCIST - majority;
Boys - girls         Administrative data               Annual
Data is forthcoming
Population Census of India       10 years
t________________                                   I _           Data is forthcoming
Drop-out ates for children aged 5-14 years
State, Urban/Rural,    Department of Education,        Annual    Data is forthcoming
Region, District;    Administrative Data
Boys - girls
Completion rates for children, primary, secondary
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES                          To be      Data from 55th state sample is being processed
NSS Regions;                                          Finalized,
Poor - non-poor;                                     12-18 mos
SC/ST - majority;
Boys - girls         Administrative data, Department
of Education                     Annual
.________________  __________________________   __________    Data   is  forthcom ing
- 56 -



Geographicl                                      Reporting
social group             Data Sources           Perodicity            Current baseline estimatesisource
disaggregration
Housing Condiffions: Percentage of households living in slum areas
State                SUDA data base                   Annual      Data is forthcoming
Percentage of households having latrine facilities in their house
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES, District Monitoring    To be       Data from 55t state sample is being processed
NSS Regions;                                       finalized, 12-
Selected distr.                                       18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majority
Distribution of households according to the source of drinking water
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES, District Monitoring    To be       Data from 55th state sample is being processed
NSS Regions;                                       finalized, 12-
Selected distr.;                                     18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majority
Percentage of households living in electrified dwellings
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES, District Monitoring    To be       Data from 55th state sample is being processed
NSS Regions;                                       finalized, 12-
Selected distr.                                       18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SCIST - majority
Paticlpation in government program&:Access to Anti-poverty programs and schemes (percentage of persons
Benefiting from employment/welfare schemes such as public works, TPDS, IRDP)
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES, District Monitoring    To be       Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Selected distr.                                    finalized, 12-
Poor - non-poor;                                      18 mos
SC/ST - majority
- 57 -



Geographic                                  Reporting
Social group         Data Sources           Periodicity                  Current baseline estimates/source
disaggregation                                              l
Health (percentage of pregnant women registered for prenatal care during last one year and
Percentage of deliveries attended by Doctor/Trained Nurse/Dal during last one year)
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES               To be finalized, 12-   Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Selected distr.                                  18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majodty                                               I
Education (Percentage of children enrolled in non-formal or altemative schooling programs
and Percentage of 0-5 year-olds attending ICOS anganwadis
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES               To be finalized, 12-   Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Selected distr.                                  18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majority;
Boys - girls
Awareness of heal/fh rograms andsocaa//7ghts: Percentage of households aware of the following:
Immunization of children, vaccination of pregnant women, Iodized salts, Use of ORT, Contraceptives,
Minimum wage act, etc.
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES                To be determined    Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Selected distr.
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majority
Access to faclllties/sen',ces.' Distance to nearest fcility/service, Metalled Road, Other roads, Railway station,
Bus stop, Police Station, Post office, Telegraph road, etc.
State, Urban/Rural;    Administrative data       Annual         Data is forthcoming
Selected distr.
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majority
Qualily ofservices: For health: availability of medical staff in govemment facilities, etc., For education: teacher
qualifications and training, etc. For water and sanitation: number and location of tubewells.
State, Urban/Rural;    UP DES               To be finalized, 12-   Data from 55th state sample is being processed
Selected distr.                                  18 mos
Poor - non-poor;
SC/ST - majority   =
Other Indicators, comments, etc.
Wherever feasible indicators will be collected through integrated household-survey instruments so as to permit disaggregation by important
Groups of interest, such as by gender, poor/non-poor, backward regions, socially disadvantaged groups, etc. Other important performance
monitoring indicators such as school learning achievement and behavioral outcomes, process indicators such as whether test-books and other
material reach schools in time, teacher attendance and regularity, etc., supplementing quantitative data with qualitative assessments, etc to also
be eventually incorporated into the monitoring system once capacity within GOUP/DES improves.
*Current Baseline Estimates: 1993-94-1998-99, 1999-00 pending
Real Agr. Wage Index (1993=100)  93-94   94-95   95-96   96-97   97-98   98-99                Actual Wages (Rs. 1993-94)
UnskilledAverage                 100.0   96.9    99.2    96.6    108,7   109.6   31.0
Himalyan                         100.0   95.6    99.8    96.9    103.9   104.7   39.1
Western                          100.0   95.1    95.4    91.8    105.5   105.1   36.9
Central                          100.0   97.4    103.3   100.0   109.1   110.7   25.8
Eastem                           100.0   98.0    100.1   99.6    113.2   113.2   27.2
Southem                          100.0   100.2   105.1   95.9    101.5   114.9   28.4
- 58 -



Additional Annex 13.Ba ckground and Task Team
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public
Sector Restructuring (UPFRPSR) Credit/Loan, for an amount equivalent to US$251 million.  The
operation was approved by the World Bank in April 2000 and disbursed to the Government of India (Gol)
in May 2000. The proceeds of the loan/credit were received by the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GoUP)
in June, 2000.
The UP Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Credit/Loan supported the launch of
multi-year fiscal and governance reforms by the Government of Uttar Pradesh, to turn around a situation of
econornic stagnation and slow progress in reducing massive poverty in the state. The operation was part of
an overall program of assistance to the state of Uttar Pradesh. The one-tranche operation was approved on
the basis of up-front actions taken by the GoUP during 1999-00 (April-March), the first year of a
medium-term fiscal and governance refonn program.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Manuela Ferro and V. J. Ravishankar (SASPR, Senior
Economists and co-Task Leaders), under the guidance of Edgardo Favaro (SASPR, Lead Economist).
Team members included Sanjay Pradhan, Farah Zahir, Robert Beschel, Valerie Kozel, Vikram Chand,
Rajni Khanna, Jillian Tullett, Vinod Ghosh (SASPR), Clive Harris (SASFP), Vinod Sahgal (OEDCM),
and T. K. Balakrishnan (SASRD). Useful comments were received from Manuel Penalver (SARVP),
Salvatore Schiavo-Campo, Edward Mountfield, Mark Sundberg, Elena Glinskaya, Lili Liu (SASPR),
Mohinder Gulati, Sameer Shukla, and Kari Nyman (SASEG), and Shahrokh Fardoust (DECVP). The ICR
was reviewed by Roberto Zagha (Sector Director), Edwin Lim (Country Director), Joelle Chassard
(Country Coordinator) and Christopher Hoban (Operations Advisor).
Preparation of the ICR began in November 2000. An ICR Mission visited New Delhi and
Lucknow during January 29-February 16, 2001 and the Aide Memoire of the ICR Mission is attached as
part of the supporting documentation. A matrix of Reform Output/Process/Outcome Indicators is attached
as Annexes 9, 10, 11 and 12.
This ICR is based on the Government of UP's audited accounts for 1999-00, which have become
recently available. The ICR also looks forward beyond the specific program supported by the operation,
and analyzes the "revised estimates" presented by the GoUP for 2000-01. In the area of governance, the
ICR reviews the follow-up actions and initial outputs/outcomes, based on information available for the first
3 quarters of 2000-01, the second year of the reform program.
The borrower (Government of India) and implementing agency (Government of Uttar Pradesh) contributed
to the preparation of the ICR with their own evaluations of the operation.
- 59 -



