Report No. PID8711
Project Name                     India-Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and (@)
Public Sector Restructuring Loan/Credit
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID                       INPE65471
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Beneficiaries                    State of Uttar Pradesh
Implementing Agency              GOVERNMENT OF UTTAR PRADESH (GoUP)
Mr. Sushil Chandra Tripathi, Principal Secretary,
Finance Department, Government of U.P.,
Council House, Lucknow
Phone 91-522-238062; Fax 91-522238918
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 29, 2000 (update)
Appraisal Mission                November 11-18, 1999
Projected Board Date             April 25, 2000 (tentative)
1.      Country and Sector Background
Notwithstanding a decade of relatively rapid economic growth in India
following the sweeping economic reforms implemented in response to the
balance of payments crisis of 1991, the pace of reforms has slowed down in
recent years. Although the economic performance remains favorable, there are
rising concerns about the increases in the overall fiscal deficit, mainly due
to a deterioration of the budgetary situation in many of the states, and
about the overall persistence of the incidence of poverty. The latter is
partly explained by increasingly differentiated economic growth rates among
the 14 major states of India and the fact that states with the largest
concentration of poor, such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, are also the states
with the poorest infrastructure and social indicators and where growth has
been slowest.
State of Uttar Pradesh
With a population of 160 million, Uttar Pradesh (UP) is India's largest
state, accounting for 9 percent of India's land and 17 percent of its
population. If UP were a country, it would be the world's seventh largest in
terms of population. It is the largest producer of foodgrains and oilseeds
in India and produces about half of India's sugarcane, with agriculture
accounting for 40 percent of the state's gross state domestic product (GSDP)
and 75 percent of its total employment.
Despite its rich natural and human resources, UP's per capita income is third
lowest among India's states (ahead only of Orissa and Bihar), and its
position relative to other states has been sliding. There has been little
progress at reducing poverty since the late 1980s, and an estimated 41
percent of the population are below the poverty line. Notwithstanding its



potential, economic growth has decelerated in the UP since 1991, even as
growth accelerated in other parts of India. In 1950, UP's level of per-
capita income was almost equal to the all-India average. Since then, the
per-capita of UP has declined to only 65t of that of India. The gap between
UP and the rest of India widened substantially in the 1990s as annual growth
in per-capita income slowed down to less than 1 percent in UP. The downturn
in the state's overall rate of economic growth in the 1990s, primarily a
result of serious power shortages as well as lower agricultural productivity
and under-development of human capital, appears to be the most important
factor behind UP's poor progress in reducing poverty in recent years.
UP is currently facing a fiscal crisis of unprecedented proportions. The
state is now caught in a vicious circle, with low growth not only holding
living standards down but also reducing revenue yields, and the fiscal crisis
prevents the state from investing enough to provide the foundations for
economic growth and improve social indicators. Frequent government changes
over the past decade have led to a rapid deterioration in the quality of
governance. Poor governance has resulted in a narrowing of the tax base (a 25
percent decline in the number of taxpayers between 1993 and 1997), and
unsustainable growth in the government's wage bill and subsidies. High and
growing deficits for more than a decade, together with the slow pace of
economic growth, have resulted in an unsustainable level of indebtedness.
Debt service has increased its claim on total state revenues from 13 percent
in 1985-86 to more than 39 percent in 1998-99. Salaries, pensions, and
interest payments absorbed more than three-fourth of total revenues in 1998-
99. The overall fiscal deficit rose to a new peak of 7.7 percent of GSDP in
1998-99, among the highest across India. A decline in the quantity and
quality of public outlays in physical and social infrastructure, both in new
asset creation and in operation and maintenance, is one of the most visible
consequences of the state's fiscal crisis. Reversing these trends requires
dramatic improvements in UP's economic policy framework, restoring trust in
its public institutions, and restoring its fiscal capacity to invest in high-
priority development programs in basic infrastructure and social services.
Uttar Pradesh's Response to Crisis
As the first step in its response to the crisis, the Government of Uttar
Pradesh (GoUP) decided to inform the public of the magnitude of the problem.
It issued a White Paper on the state's finances in March 1998. Following
this, the GoUP requested the Bank to conduct an in-depth economic and fiscal
assessment, which was carried out in close collaboration with the state
officials. This report laid the basis for an intensive policy dialogue that
helped define GoUP's strategy for fundamental economic reforms in the state.
Over the last twelve months, GoUP has embarked on a set of reforms to restore
fiscal sustainability and initiated reforms in the key sectors of the
economy.
2.      Objectives
The Government of Uttar Pradesh has responded to its economic and fiscal
crisis by introducing multi-year reforms to restore fiscal sustainability,
improve governance, and accelerate economic growth. Fiscal and governance
reforms will bring about the enabling environment for implementation of the
state's multi-sector reform and investment programs in the education, health,
irrigation, power, road, and urban sectors. The key objective of the proposed
- 2 -



operation is not only to create additional fiscal space over the medium term
for well-targeted public investments but also to "crowd in" private
investments by changing the negative perception of investors and donors about
Uttar Pradesh. The proposed operation is an integral part of the Bank's
assistance strategy for UP, which encompasses a broad program of lending and
non-lending assistance aimed at turning around the state's deteriorating
economic and developmental performance.
3.      Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Focus on reforming states is at the heart of the India Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The last CAS Report documented the substantial progress
being made in the implementation of this strategy. Increasingly, the Bank's
limited financial and technical resources are being directed towards a small
number of reforming states. The proposed operation has been structured as
the first adjustment loan in a series of loans to support growth-oriented
fiscal adjustment and structural reforms, with a focus on governance. It is
justified on the basis of the state's need for financial assistance to
proceed with a growth-oriented stabilization and structural reform program.
The state-level reforms will contribute to the overall macroeconomic
stability in India and complement the reforms initiated by the central
government. In this context, external financial and technical assistance,
which can be targeted at individual states, can significantly strengthen the
incentives for reforms and complement the efforts by the Government of India.
Budgetary Support
The fiscal projections under GoUP's medium-term fiscal framework indicate
that the state will face a significant financing gap in the early years of
the proposed comprehensive reform program. Increased spending on
infrastructure, social sectors and non-wage operation and maintenance (O&M)
will be required to improve the quality of services provided before such
costs can be recovered through increased user charges. Increased budgetary
outlays will also be initially required to finance the restructuring of the
power sector while the fiscal gains from privatizing the sector are likely to
materialize over a number of years. Reform of public enterprises will entail
up-front costs of retrenchment and retraining of workers.
Enabling Environment for Sectoral Investments
The fiscal and governance reform framework will ensure that the Government's
proposed investments are feasible from a fiscal perspective and benefit from
greater technical and financial efficiency. In turn, the wider government
reform program, which the Bank's overall assistance is supporting, provides
UP with a unique opportunity to escape from stagnation and start reducing
poverty again. The predicted increase in growth and improvement in government
services are anticipated to be highly pro-poor.
4.      Description
The Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Loan/Credit
(UPFRPSR), which is the first sub-national adjustment loan in India, will
support GoUP's efforts in initiating multi-year reforms that are designed to
stabilize the fiscal situation, improve governance, and foster an enabling
environment for structural reforms and sectoral investments over the medium
- 3-



term. The UPFRPSR is a single-tranche loan, the first in a series of loans
that may follow depending on GoUP's success in implementing reforms, as well
as downstream lending in the power, water and irrigation, health, education
roads and urban sectors. The loan will strengthen the long-term process of
reorienting government towards its core functions and reducing its role in
the economy, improving civil service efficiency and strengthening fiscal
management and financial accountability.
The proposed operation would support GoUP as it implements a comprehensive
set of reforms in the following areas: (i) public expenditure management,
(ii) tax policy and administration, (iii) civil service, (iv) anti-
corruption, deregulation, and decentralization to local bodies, (v) public
enterprise and privatization, and (vi) financial management and
accountability. The proposed loan would be disbursed to the Government of
India, with immediate transfer of the local counterpart funds to GoUP
according to on-lending terms agreed with the Bank.
5.      Financing
Total                            US$251.3 million
IBRD                             US$126.3 million
IDA                              SDR 93.3 million (US$125 million equivalent)
6.      Implementation Arrangements
A Governance and Civil Service Reform Core Group, headed by the Chief
Secretary, and a Reform Implementation Task Force, headed by the Principal
Secretary, Finance, would spearhead and monitor the implementation of
governance and fiscal reforms, respectively. Technical working groups would
be created under each of these steering groups, as well as a Tax Reform
Working Group reporting to the Principal Secretary of Tax and Registration.
These working groups would be staffed with personnel dedicated to the
implementation of reforms, and would induct and work closely with
professional consultants, who would be hired under various Technical
Assistance components that would be financed by the Bank under a parallel
Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform, which will be open to all
levels of government in India, with UP expected to be one of the major
beneficiaries.
7.      Sustainability
In the absence of the proposed fiscal and structural reform, per capita
growth in UP will continue to stagnate, further widening the gap in living
conditions between the state and the rest of India. For the poor, the risks
of taking no action far outweigh the risks associated with the reforms. With
the wide-ranging reform program, the state authorities are convinced that UP
can improve the quality of its public services, stabilize its debt and begin
to reduce its debt servicing ratio over the next several years. More
importantly, the reforms can also significantly raise per capita growth rate
in the state from about 1 per cent now to 3 percent or higher over the medium
term and make a significant dent on poverty and the quality of life of the
population. Given the size of UP and its relatively poor economic performance
senior officials in the central and state governments expect that a
turnaround in UP would also have a measurable positive impact on the
- 4 -



performance of the Indian economy. An acceleration of real per-capita income
growth in UP would make a significant contribution to reducing poverty in
India.
The states have an increasingly important role in the ongoing process of
economic reforms and fiscal correction in India. They account for about 40
percent of the consolidated public sector deficit and for more than 50
percent of public spending in infrastructure and social services. Successful
economic reforms and fiscal correction in UP would contribute to the overall
fiscal correction in the country and are likely to have a strong
demonstration effect upon other states. The projected fiscal correction
would enable GoUP to revamp its development efforts, including sustaining
further Bank-assisted investments and other priority expenditures in
infrastructure and the social sectors, by enabling it to ensure the required
counterpart funding during the project period, as well as to adequately
finance operation and maintenance expenses once such projects are completed.
The recognition of the serious fiscal and governance issues faced by the
state on the part of civil service, the major political parties and the
public at large, together with a strong support from the Government of India
for the state's reform initiatives, is likely to lead to sustained reform
efforts provided that serious political instability does not return.
8.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations
The proposed operation is the first subnational adjustment loan to India.
However, a different type of lending instrument (a hybrid) is being utilized
in Andhra Pradesh (AP), which was the first state to benefit from the Bank's
state-focused lending in support of fiscal adjustment. The Andhra Pradesh
Economic Restructuring Project (APERP), for which a $543.2 million package
was approved by the Board in June 1998, is a multi-sectoral project that
provides resources to AP for health, education, nutrition, irrigation, roads
and public enterprise reform while supporting reforms intended to redirect
spending towards priority areas and introduce a value added taxation system.
The project is a package of sector investment loans and credits within a
medium-term fiscal framework. While the APERP approach is innovative and is
proving effective in Andhra Pradesh, it may not be appropriate for UP for two
important reasons. First, given the high level of indebtedness and immediate
cash-flow problems in UP, assistance through investment lending alone (which
itself would require additional resources for counterpart funding) will not
be feasible. Second, an AP-type operation is a complex operation involving a
number of sector components being implemented simultaneously and therefore
presupposes strong administrative capacity throughout the state, which is not
assured in UP in the initial years of the reform program.
9.      Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)
In addition to the conventional monitoring and evaluation associated with
each individual project under preparation for UP, the GoUP and the Bank
intend to monitor the impact of the Government's overall reform program.
While the project-specific monitoring will of course vary depending on the
nature of the project (from fiscal monitoring to health surveys), the program
monitoring will focus on the core objective of the overall program - poverty
reduction.
-5-



The benefits of growth are likely to accrue over the medium to long term. In
the short run, while many segments of society will benefit from reform-led
changes, some may suffer from adverse impacts of certain measures. It is a
matter of concern, both to the GoUP and to the Bank, to maximize and
capitalize on medium-and longer-term gains while ensuring that the poor and
vulnerable sections are protected. However, rather than devoting extensive
resources to anticipating reform-induced impacts, a carefully designed
monitoring system is being developed to track actual changes in outcomes
(e.g., incomes, poverty levels, mortality and morbidity), in key intermediate
variables (e.g., quality of services, provision of basic infrastructure) and
inputs (e.g., spending on priority sectors) that are likely to impact on
living conditions. Monitoring efforts will be directed to backward regions
of the state and focus intensively on groups considered most at risk.
10.     Environment Aspects
Given the nature of the reform components of the proposed operation, there
are no major environmental issues identified under this loan/credit. In fact
the environmental impact of overall governance and fiscal reform programs
will be indirect but generally positive. However, there are certain
environmental issues relating to the proposed divestment or closure of public
enterprises (PEs) and privatization component of the operation: (i) potential
environmental liabilities associated with past pollution; and (ii)
environmental compliance by each PE. In this context, the proposed operation
envisages that at the time of privatization or closure of each PE, an
environmental audit should be carried out to assess the current environmental
compliance and liabilities of the PE. In the case of privatization, the
audit will result in actions recommended to bring each PE into compliance.
In the case of PE closures (as opposed to divestitures), any environmental
liabilities will be the responsibility of GoUP. In order to address the
above issues, GoUP is inviting consultancy offers to assist it in developing
transaction guidelines on environmental matters to ensure that the divestment
and closure process will be environmentally sound.
11.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Shahrokh Fardoust & V. J. Ravishankar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9342
Fax:        (202) 522-3408
70 Lodi Estate
New Delhi 110 003
Telephone: (91) 11 461 9491
- 6 -



Fax:        (91) 11 461 9393
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
- 7 -



