Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3341 IN
LOAN NUMBER 4546 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public
 Sector Restructuring Program)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated May 16, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3341 IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4546 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 2000, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and 
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Uttar Pradesh), acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS (A) the Association and the Bank have received from India (the Borrower) 
a letter dated March 22, 2000, attaching a letter from Uttar Pradesh describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the 
fiscal framework and public institutions of Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring Uttar Pradesh’s commitment to the execution of the Program and the 
Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association and the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
Uttar Pradesh has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in the Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and 
the Bank and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the 
Page  2
Association and the Bank;
(C)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety three million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR93,300,000) on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar 
Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(D)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India and the Bank, 
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an aggregate principal amount of 
one hundred twenty-six million two hundred seventy thousand dollars ($126,270,000) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(E)
the Program will be carried out by Uttar Pradesh with the Borrower’s 
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Uttar 
Pradesh the local currency equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the 
Development Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan 
Agreement.
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, in the Loan Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Loan 
Agreement) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Program and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and 
efficiency, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Program.
Section 2.02. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall from time to time, at the request of the 
Association and the Bank, and with the participation of the Borrower, exchange views 
with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of the Program, the 
actions specified in the Schedule to this Agreement, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit and the Loan.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Association, the Bank and the Borrower for their review and comment a report on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association and 
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association, the Bank and the 
Borrower of any condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the 
Loan, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, Uttar Pradesh shall exchange views with the Association and the Bank on 
Page  3
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program, incuding any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. For the purpose of assisting in the implementation and monitoring 
of the Program, Uttar Pradesh shall maintain the Governance and CSR Core Group, the 
Reform Implementation Task Force, and the Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Cell with 
adequate powers, functions, structures, staff and resources satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank.
Section 2.04. Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, including the impact of implementation of the program on the poor 
in accordance with the PSMS;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than six months after the 
Closing Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Section 2.05. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall use the amounts transferred to it by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 
2.02 (c) of the Loan Agreement in support of the Program. Uttar Pradesh undertakes 
that any of such amounts shall not be used to finance expenditures under a contract in 
respect of which the Association or the Bank determines that corrupt or fraudulent 
practices were engaged in by representatives of Uttar Pradesh during the procurement 
or execution of such contract, without Uttar Pradesh having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association and the Bank to remedy the 
situation.
(b)
If the Association or the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
such amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent 
with paragraph (a) above, Uttar Pradesh shall promptly upon request from the 
Association or the Bank as the case may be, refund such amount to the Association or 
the Bank through the Borrower. Amounts refunded to the Association or the Bank upon 
such request shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case 
may be, for cancellation.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound financial management and accounting practices the 
High Priority Development Expenditures of its relevant departments or agencies. 
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
audited for Fiscal Year 1999-2000 in accordance with 
terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, 
and appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
Page  4
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of such Fiscal Year, 
the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the 
Association and the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as 
the Association and the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
conditions; and
(b)
Upon the Association’s and the Bank’s request, Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the said records, accounts and financial statements audited 
in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association 
and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than four months after the date of the 
Association’s and the Bank’s 
request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association and the Bank 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof as the 
Association and the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
Section 3.03. Uttar Pradesh shall, no later than thirty (30) days after the 
disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to the Borrower, provide to 
the Association and the Bank respectively an audit report by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association and the Bank showing the date and the amount of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan transferred by the Borrower to Uttar Pradesh 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.02 (c) 
of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association, the 
Bank and Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  5
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
For the Bank:
International Bank of 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary
          Government of Uttar Pradesh
          Lucknow 226001 UP, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Uttar 
Pradesh, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of Uttar Pradesh to consult with, and furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to Uttar Pradesh shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by 
the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
Page  6
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in 
the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By /s/ S. C. Tripathi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Policy Papers
1.
Uttar Pradesh has obtained Cabinet approval to implement policies, strategies 
and actions for carrying out a medium-term program of fiscal and governance reforms 
set out in the following documents, and has tabled these documents in the Legislative 
Assembly of the State:
(a)
A Policy Paper on Fiscal Reforms aimed at achieving sustainability over 
the medium-term through growth-oriented fiscal adjustment, by reducing its fiscal 
deficit to no more than four percent (4%) of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) 
by Fiscal Year 2003-04, its non-power fiscal deficit (fiscal deficit net of support 
for the power sector restructuring) to no more than three percent (3%) by achieving a 
primary (fiscal deficit net of interest payments) surplus by such date.
(b)
Policy papers on Governance Reform, Civil Service Reform, Public 
Enterprise Reform and Privatization, and Financial Management and Accountability 
Strategy.
Fiscal Policy
2.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated the implementation of a medium term fiscal 
framework, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, with the objectives of, inter 
alia, reducing in Fiscal Year 1999-00 the non-power fiscal deficit to no more than Rs 
98 billion or 6 percent of the GSDP, from 6.7 percent in the previous year; capping 
debt and guarantees at no more than 38 percent and three percent (3%) of GSDP 
respectively; and containing salary and pension payments to within Rs. 101 billion.
Public Expenditure Policy
3.
Uttar Pradesh has:
(a)
Restricted new recruitment to downsize the civil service by at least two 
percent (2%) through attrition.
Page  7
(b)
Taken measures to reduce the fiscal impact of the Fifth Pay Commission 
pay increases, including abolishing staff entitlement to encash outstanding leave.
(c)
Imposed a freeze on higher and secondary education grants at their 
1998-99 level and approved an increase in user charges in canal irrigation, 
professional education and hospital care.
(d)
Imposed a ban on new credits to public enterprises, with the exception of 
power and for payments under voluntary retirement schemes.
(e)
Prepared a strategy for developing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework.
(f)
Finalized the components of high-priority developmental expenditures to 
be protected in Fiscal Year 1999-00, and issued orders to all treasuries to ensure 
that these components get priority in clearance of bills.
Tax Reform
4.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated the implementation of a program of tax policy and 
administration reforms, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, and has taken, 
inter alia, the following actions:
(a)
Implemented floor rates for sales tax per agreement with the Government 
of India, and obtained approval of its cabinet to reduce the number of trade tax rates 
to no more than five and to simplify the system by reducing the number of commodity 
classification.
(b)
Abolished tax holidays and deferrals for new investments.
(c)
Obtained Cabinet approval of amendments to the Trade Tax Act to tighten 
enforcement, amended the Motor Vehicles Tax Act to simplify rate revisions, and 
introduced an entry tax on selected commodities.
Civil Service Reform
5.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated the implementation of a program of civil service 
Reform, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, and has taken, inter alia, the 
following actions:
(a)
Published its Annual Transfer Policy on the web and initiated monitoring 
of compliance.
(b)
Created and staffed a Technical Working Group under the Governance and 
CSR Core Group to conduct intra and inter departmental functional reviews; and 
initiated a review of civil service terms and conditions. 
(c)
Abolished about 10,000 vacant positions identified as redundant.
(d)
Initiated implementation of a consultative mechanism for overseeing 
transfers of civil servants. Anti-Corruption Strategy
6.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated the implementation of an anti-corruption strategy, 
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, and has taken, inter alia, the following 
actions:
(a)
Conducted independent surveys on the perception of business, households 
and civil servants on the incidence and magnitude of corruption in key departments. 
(b)
Published Citizen Charters for 18 departments specifying service 
standards and remedial measures.
(c)
Established a broad based Governance Reform Task Force for rationalizing 
and strengthening key accountability institutions.
(d)
Established a Deregulation Committee to begin to streamline and modernize 
the regulatory framework. 
Page  8
(e)
Approved a code of access for documents of local government, financial 
institutions and development agencies.
Decentralizations
7.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated a program of decentralization and has taken, inter 
alia, the following actions:
(a)
Transferred responsibility, assets and control over staff and funds (4% 
of the state’s own net tax revenue) of selected departments to lowest tier of rural 
local bodies – including elementary education, reproductive health and drinking water 
supply.
(b)
Redefined accountability relations between the executive and elected 
local bodies at the district level; published training manual and initiated training 
for local government representatives; and empowered local bodies to recruit new staff 
under terms and conditions to be determined by them.
Public Enterprise Reform
8.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated the implementation of a program of public enterprise 
reform and privatization, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank, and has taken, 
inter alia, the following actions:
(a)
Established a Divestment Commission and an institutional framework for 
implementing the program.
(b)
Obtained Cabinet approval of the scope of the first implementation phase 
of the program (involving about twenty units and about 19,000 workers) as well as the 
guidelines and implementation procedures, including sale, closure, treatment of labor, 
and environmental issues.
(c)
Completed the closure and sale of assets of one public enterprise.
Financial Management and Accountability
9.
Uttar Pradesh has initiated the implementation of a program of reform to 
strengthen the system of financial management and accountability, satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, and has taken, inter alia, the following actions:
(a)
Established a broad based Task Force to recommend improvements to 
financial management, including a mechanism for public disclosure of government 
financial statements.
(b)
Appointed a Controller, and initiated consultations with the Comptroller 
and Auditor General (C&AG) of India for modernizing the financial management and 
control system.
(c)
Requested the C&AG for the conduct of special audits of procurement, and 
of high priority development expenditures under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank.
Implementation Arrangements
10.
Uttar Pradesh has established structures and indicators satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, for the purpose of implementing and monitoring the progress 
of the Reform Program, including its impact on the poor.
