Page  1
CONFORMED COPY                      
CREDIT NUMBER 3341 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring Program)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 16, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3341 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 2000, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 
22, 2000, attaching a letter from Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh) describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal 
framework and public institutions of Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring Uttar Pradesh’s commitment to the execution of the Program and the 
Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association in support 
of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
Uttar Pradesh has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in the Schedule to the Project Agreement (the Project Agreement) to the 
satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Association;
(C)
the Program will be carried out by Uttar Pradesh with the assistance of 
the Borrower, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the local 
currencies equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement available to Uttar Pradesh, as set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance in support of the Program, 
and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal 
amount of one hundred twenty-six million two hundred and seventy thousand dollars 
($126,270,000); and
(E)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in one tranche as hereinafter provided, and to Uttar Pradesh as provided in the 
Project Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”;
(b)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 
2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of 
these General Conditions”;
 
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Credit.”;
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07; and
(h)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the 
word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the 
Page  3
said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
‘Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and of Uttar Pradesh 
beginning on April 1 of a calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following 
calendar year;
(c)
“Governance and CSR Core Group” means the group established by Uttar 
Pradesh to monitor the implementation of the civil service reform program and the 
anti-corruption strategy of Uttar Pradesh;
(d)
“High Priority Development Expenditures” means expenditures for high 
priority items to be maintained by Uttar Pradesh in Fiscal Year 1999-2000, and set out 
in a list provided by Uttar Pradesh to the Association and the Bank;
(e)
“Poverty Monitoring and Evaluation Cell” means the cell established by 
Uttar Pradesh in order to manage the PSMS data base, undertake policy analyses, and 
prepare research reports;
(f)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(g)
“PSMS” means the Poverty and Social Impact Monitoring System established 
by Uttar Pradesh to monitor the impact of the implementation of the Program on the 
poor;
(h)
“Reform Implementation Task Force” means the task force established by 
Uttar Pradesh for monitoring the implementation of reforms in the areas of expenditure 
and fiscal management, modernization of accounting, and strengthening of internal 
audit;
(i)
“Rupees” and “Rs” mean the currency of the Borrower; and
(j)
“Uttar Pradesh” means the State of Uttar Pradesh of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety-three million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR93,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in support of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
Page  4
(c)
The Borrower shall, promptly after the deposit of the proceeds of the 
Credit into the Deposit Account, transfer to Uttar Pradesh an amount in Rupees 
equivalent to the amount deposited in the Deposit Account as of the day of such 
deposit.
(d)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
(i) 
deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of 
said payment; 
or
(ii)
if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall 
be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 30, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: 
(i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) 
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and 
at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the 
Borrower; and
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of 
that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2010 and ending April 15, 2035.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2020 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
Page  5
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify 
the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its support to Uttar Pradesh’s 
commitment to the objectives of the Program and, to this end, without any limitation 
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit 
Agreement, shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Uttar Pradesh to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) 
The Borrower shall participate with the Association and Uttar Pradesh in 
the exchange of views referred to in Section 2.02(a) of the Project Agreement on the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement, the performance of Uttar Pradesh’s obligations under the 
Project Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall inform the Association on any action taken after the disbursement 
of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified in 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement, and shall facilitate exchange of views to 
address the situation.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
Page  6
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out by Uttar Pradesh.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled other than those related to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh and is legally binding upon Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi
953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Page  7
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ R. S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse 
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
Page  8
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or Uttar Pradesh or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower or Uttar Pradesh having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
