Page  1
China                
E294 Vol. 2
 
 
 
 
 
Sustainable Coastal Resources Development Project 
(Loan 4322) 
 
 
 
Project Restructuring 
 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment 
 
 
12 March 2004 
 
 
Foreign Economic Cooperation Center 
Ministry of Agriculture 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China 
 
Page  2
 
 2
Table of Contents 
 
 
1. 
Consolidated Environmental Evaluation Report 
 
2. 
Tangshan, Hebei Province 
a. 
Tangshang Fishery Supervision and Inspection Center 
b.  Construction Project of Shoal Shellfish Seedlings Aquaculture [Clam and jellyfish 
hatchery] 
 
3. 
Penglai, Yantai, Shandong Province 
a. 
Penglai Coastal Belt Administration Center 
b.  Penglai Jinglu Fishery Company, Ltd. [High value fish processing] 
c. 
Penglai Beiguo Town Industry Comprehensive Effluent Treatment Project 
d.  Penglai Chaoshui Chaoshui Town Comprehensive Effluent Treatment Project 
 
4. 
Xiangshan, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province 
a. 
Xiangshan County Coastal Belt Administration Center 
b.  Construction Items of establishing Jiushan Islands Ocean Ecologic Conservation 
Zone 
c. 
Ningbo Chaoxiang Marine Life Product Company. Ltd. [Marine algae processing] 
d.  Xiangshan Huayi Seafood Co. Ltd. [Seafood processing] 
e. 
Ningbo Feiri MarineIndustrial Co., Ltd. [Seafood Processing] 
f. 
Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Company, Ltd. [Seafood Processing 
g.  Xiangshan Fishing Trade and Development Co., Ltd. [Seafood wholesale market] 
h.  Shipu Seafood Industrial Park [Planned waste treatment facility not financed by the 
project and will serve all components in Shipu area] 
 
5. Fangchenggang, 
Guangxi 
Autonomous 
Region 
a. 
Coastal Fishery Resources and Environmental Monitoring Management Center 
b.  Jiaye Aquaculture Synthetically Exploiture Ltd. [Marine fish hatchery] 
i.  Annex 1.  Monitoring Report of Environmental Monitoring Station of 
Fangchenggang for Fish Hatchery 
c. 
Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Co., Ltd. [Marine fish cage culture] 
d.  Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Co., Ltd. [Seafood freezing] 
 
 
 
Page  3
 
 3
CONSOLIDATED REPORT ON ENVIRONMENT EVALUATION 
 
CHINA COASTAL RESOURCE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 
PROJECT 
(NEW SUB-PROJECTS) 
 
The China Coastal Resource Sustainable Development Project (CHA-4322 ) became effective 
in December, 1998. The project was originally spread in the coastal provinces including Liaoning, 
Shandong, Jiangsu and Fujian and its Xiamen Municipality. During MTR in 2002, some endusers 
applied for a cut of their borrowing from the Bank, including U.S.$ 13 million from Fujian, U.S.$ 
7.69 million from Jiangsu and US$ 5.84 million to be reallocated in Shandong, totaling at US$ 
26.53 million. With consensus among MOF, MOA and the Bank, it has been agreed that the 
withdrawn borrowing will be reallocated to new borrowers for the same purpose of the project, 
with emphasis on coastal zone management and aquatic product processing while taking into 
consideration small sized aquiculture. In accordance with the SAR and legal agreement of the 
project, the Bank has mobilized specialists to conduct the pre-appraisal and appraisal together with 
local experts on the newly proposed sub-projects in Zhejiang, Guangxi, Hebei and Shandong in the 
respect of socio-eco environment, processing, institutional strengthening and finance. Now all the 
newly proposed sub-projects have finished their financial guarantee, feasibility study and 
environment evaluation. 
A.  Briefing on new sub-project area 
1. Xiangshan County, Zhejiang Province 
Xiangshan County is located at the center of China’s east coast with a land territory of 1,175 
square Kms and a coastal area of 5,335 square Kms. Its total population is 534,000. The county 
has a coastal line of 800 Kms. and 600 islands. Major produces from the sea include 
Hexagram’s Lagocephalus, hairtails, butterfish and cuttlefish, while aquiculture largely raises 
shrimps, oysters, kelp, laver and razor clam. The county is one of China’ important fishery 
producers. The volcanic rocks of the Jurassic system dominate Land formation in this county. 
Pines, shrubs, bushes and grasses cover mountains and hills. The county has a mild and humid 
climate due to the sub-tropical monsoon influence, with 4 distinct seasons and plenty rainfall. 
Natural calamities include frost and typhoon. Due to over-catching by the increasing number 
of fishing boats, the coastal fishery resources are diminishing sharply in recent years. The 
governments have thus encouraged the fishermen to resettle at the coast for aquiculture and 
aquatic processing since 1998. Since 2000, the governments have allocated earmarked funds to 
support the resettlement program every year. To supplement the government effort, the Bank 
has agreed that the county participates the China Costal Resource Sustainable Development 
Page  4
 
 4
Project. It is expected that such participation will create 1,200 job opportunities with 80 % for 
women. 
  The proposed sub-projects, namely, the aquatic processing projects and the aquatic 
wholesale market are to be located in the industrial development zone of Shipu Town. 
According to the government rule for sewage discharging, each individual aquatic processing 
plant and wholesale enterprise has built up its independent sewage treatment facility. The 
development zone is now building a new sewage treatment plant. It is expected to complete 
the civil construction by July and to be put into operation by the end of October this year. 
The newly built plant has a daily capacity of 5,000 tons. The total cost of RMB.9.95 million 
yuan is entirely borne by the local government Shipu Town is a large fishing port. The town 
is 36 Km.s away from the county seat. It has a population of 70,000, of whom 40,000 are 
engaged in fishery production. Of its annual gross output value of RMB. 3.3 billion yuan, the 
fishery accounts for 1.2 billion yuan. It is also important in terms of trading and fishing boat 
visit by Taiwan. The town has passenger boats linking with Shanghai, Ningbo and Wenzhou. 
Its development zone has good access to transportation, communication, post and 
telecommunication, power and water supply, sewage piping network and living quarter 
communities. The town has an annual averaged rainfall of 1,392 mm, sunshine of 2,025 
hours, frost-free period of 296 days, with the relative humidity of 80% and wind velocity of 
5.5 m/sec.. Typhoon is the most dangerous calamity. However, the risk of the town by 
typhoon is effectively relieved due to the windbreak effect of its 600 islands. 
1.1 Coastal Zone Management Center 
This sub-project is aimed at the coastal ecologic protection. By completion of the project, 
it is possible to detect the changes of the coastal fishery resources at the East China Sea with the 
county itself in particular, for the purpose of fishing programming and protection and 
management of the fishery resources. It is also possible to monitor and evaluate the nearby 
inshore and offshore ecologic environment quality, for the purpose of marine environment 
protection. In addition, emergence of fish diseases will also be monitored to help aquatic 
product quality and safety control. The training program will also help enhancement of the 
research and management capability of the staff and participation into environment protection 
by both the local government and people. 
The center is to be built at the county seat proper with a total area of 8,907 square m.s, of 
which the building space accounts for 4,906 m2. The main building is a 6-stored structure. The 
floor space will be allocated to the marine environment advisory section, aquatic disease control 
center, aquatic quality testing center, environment protection training center, supervision center 
for marine environment protection communication network, and laboratories. The center is also 
to be equipped with a patrol and inspection boat. The project is to be implemented by the 
Marine and Fishery Bureau of the County Government at the cost of the county government. 
1.2 Marine Ecologic Natural Reserve at the Jiushan Island 
This sub-project is aimed at protection of the marine ecologic environment. Jiushan Island 
is formed by 76 reefs with a total area of 7.3 square Km.s, with the main island of 4 square 
Km.s. Very few people is living there. Thanks to the warm current from Taiwan and the coastal 
water systems, the marine area around the island has abundant feeding organisms. Thus it 
becomes a favorable ground for many marine living beings. The survey reveals that within the 
Page  5
 
 5
reserve of the island there exist 54 species of fishes, 25 species of shellfishes and 7 species of 
mollusca. In addition, there also exist a great number of precious species of plants, flowers, tea 
trees and medicinal herbs and 8 species of birds within the national and provincial protection 
category. To protect from destruction by human activities, it is of urgent need to establish the 
proposed reserve. Within the reserve area, it is planned to foster 2 publicity boards, 20 floating 
posters, 20 warning boards and an observatory platform with fencing. A small dock is to be built 
for the patrol boat. A management station is also to be built with necessary communication and 
warning equipment. The project is to be implemented by the Marine and Fishery Bureau of the 
County Government at the cost of the county government. 
1.3 Huayi Aquatic Food Processing Co. Ltd 
The company, founded in 1996, has gone through HACCP accreditation and has an AA 
creditability. Its annual sales in 2002 was RMB. 100 million with an export value of US$ 11 
million. The proposed aquatic processing plant is to be built in the industrial development zone 
set by the county government at the side of the county seat proper. The project covers a total 
area of 20,000 square m.s with a building space of 13,991 square m.s ( of which the cold storage 
accounts for 5,200 square m.s, processing workshop for 2,500 square m.s, pre-treatment 
workshop for 2,000 square m.s, and office building including laboratories and storage for 4,291 
square m.s.), Within the project campus, 2,500 square m.s of green coverage will be set. Its 
annual capacity is 1,930 tons, of which 1,560 tons will be exported to overseas market ( 
including 800 tons of perch slides, 400 tons of perch pieces, 200 tons of fried perch and 80 tons 
of dried perch) and 370 tons be sold at domestic market. Due to the diminishing of the marine 
fishery resources, more and more fishermen have shifted from fishing to cage aquiculture. The 
current production from aquiculture has reached to 90,000 tons, which provide adequate supply 
of raw fishes for processing.  
1.4 Feiri Aquatic Industrial Co. Ltd 
       The company was founded in 1996 and mainly engaged in aquatic food processing for export 
to Japan, South Korea, U.S., Europe and Southeast Asia. The company has 2 processing plants 
with 11 processing workshops covering a total floor space of 8,200 square m.s. Its annual 
production is 5,500 tons with an export value of US$ 7.5 million. The proposed project is to 
occupy an area of 39,960 square m.s in the industrial development zone, of which the building 
space accounts for 14,900 square m.s and the green coverage accounts for 11,988 square m.s. Of 
the building space, the processing workshops account for 5,000 square m.s, cold storage for 2,000 
square m.s, office building with laboratories for 3,000 square m.s, dormitories and canteen for 
2,000 square m.s, boiler room for 300 m.s, machine and switch rooms for 800 m.s, warehouses for 
1,000 m.s and sewage treatment for 800 m.s. Its annual capacity is expected to be 1,396 tons, of 
which 1,150 tons is exported to overseas markets and 246 tons sold at domestic market 
1.5 Xianglong Aquatic Food Co. Ltd 
The company was founded in 1997 and mainly engaged in aquatic food processing for 
export to Japan, South Korea, U.S., Europe and Southeast Asia. The proposed project is planed to 
build a floor space of 10,972 square m.s in the industrial development zone, of which the 
processing workshops and auxiliary facilities account for 9,332 square m.s and the cold storage for 
1,640 square m.s. The green coverage of 2000 square m.s and roads of 3,237 square m.s will be 
Page  6
 
 6
built. The project is designed to have an annual capacity of processing 980 tons of fishes and 620 
tons of headless shrimps. 
   1.6 
Chaoxing Marine Bio-product Co. Ltd 
        The company is located at Shipu Town. The proposed project is to be built in the industrial 
development zone of the town to produce kelp meal, iodine reinforced soy sauce and kelp fillet, 
with the cultured kelp as the raw materials. The annual production includes 3,000 tons of kelp 
meal, 1,000 tons of iodine-reinforced soy sauce and 2,000 tons of kelp fillet. The project is to build 
a floor space of 12,541 square m.s ( of which processing workshops accounts for 5,280 square m.s, 
cold storage for 5,412 square m.s, office building with laboratories for 960 square m.s, and 
dormitories for 889 square m.s), a green coverage of 11,954 square m.s and roads of 8055 square 
m.s. Xiangshan County has 330,000 hectares of shallow beaches with a depth of less than 20 m.s 
which favor aquiculture with kelp in particular. The county has a history of kelp culture for more 
than 30 years and the local people are quite good at it. With financial support by the Bank, the 
project is able to absorb a great number of fishermen who are willing to withdraw from fishing to 
aquiculture.  
1.7 Zhejiang Aquatic Shopping Center ( Wholesale Market ) 
Xiangshan County now has a total aquiculture area of 16,000 hectares, which produce about 
90,000 to 100,000 tons at a value of RMB. 1.1 billion yuan per annum. More than 50 varieties of 
products are yielded from aquiculture including laver, hexagrammos lagocelphalus, perch, crabs, 
eel, grouper and tilapia. 6 culture bases have been established by cage culture, pond culture with 
marine water and laver culture. Some 20,000 people are engaged in aquiculture. Trading volume 
by wholesale in 2002 amounted to 290,000 tons at a value of RMB. 1.3 billion yuan. The proposed 
wholesale market is to be built in the Taiwan Oriented Trading Zone at Shipu Town. The market 
will occupy 92,000 square m.s with a building space of 42,5000 square m.s ( including the general 
trading hall of 7,000 square m.s, the open type trading hall of 10,5000 square m.s, the living and 
perishable product trading zone of 11,000 square m.s, negotiation rooms of 7,000 square m.s, 
parking ground of 2,000 square m.s, 4 trading wharves with a capacity of 1,000 tons each, and 7 
boats). The newly proposed market is able to hold 60 boats for simultaneous trading. The project is 
a complex for trading, boat holding, cold storage, logistics and commercial exchanges. Its annual  
turnover is designed to be 46,000 tons at a value of RMB.911 million yuan. In addition, the project 
has an ice making capacity of 30,000 tons per annum. 
2.
 Penglai Municipality of Shandong Province 
  Shandong is one of the original provinces that participated the project at the very beginning. At 
the SAR stage, the sub-project in this province was designated to be located in Weihai 
Municipality. Due to some reasons, the provincial Department of Finance, Department of Marine 
and Fisheries and Commission of Planning have subsequently decided to enlend the Bank loan to 
Penglai Municipality instead. 
   The municipality has 34 fishery villages with more than 50,000 permanent fishery workers. It 
has cultured 20,000 hectares of shallow sea and 333 hectares around the reefs. Aquiculture under 
confinement reaches to 60,000 square m.s. The municipality has 1,500 fishing boats with more 
than 80,000 h.p. in total, of which the majority are small boats which are just able for inshore 
fishing. The Penglai Fishing Harbor is a large harbor in North China where fishing boats from 
South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Southeast Asia are often seen. Penglai is also an 
Page  7
 
 7
important trading zone with South Korea and Taiwan. Due to over fishing, the municipality is also 
facing the problem of diminishing fishery resources which need to be protected. Moreover, 
contamination by the industrial, agricultural and domestic sources needs to be controlled; the 
monitoring and evaluation system needs to be established; and training and education of protection 
on marine resources and eco-environment need to be strengthened.  
 2.1 
Coastal Zone Management Center 
Marine resource diminishing by over fishing and human destructive activities has drawn 
serious attention of the municipal government. In order to develop and utilize the fishery resources 
in a rational way, and provide an effective protection on the marine resources and environment to 
ensure the sustainable development of fishery industry, it is decided to set up a management center 
for resource protection and environment monitoring with the Band fund. The coastal zone 
management center has the main tasks as to carry out monitoring , survey and evaluation on 
coastal fishery resources; to make plans and programs for fishing and aquiculture in a scientific 
way; and to conduct training and education on resource and environment protection in a planned 
way. The project is to be built close to the fishing harbor at Beigou Town, about 7 Km.s away 
from or 5 minutes drive to the city proper. The center is to have a floor space of 2,900 square m.s 
and a garage of 600 square m.s. The building will be divided into the exhibition hall for protection 
on marine living beings, laboratories, monitoring rooms, offices and training classrooms. The 
center will be equipped with marine water testing instruments and communication facilities. 
Potential pollutants include domestic sewage, solid refuses and discharged water from laboratories. 
  2.2 
Jinglu Fishery Co. Ltd 
The company is the largest aquatic processing enterprise in the municipality. It has gone 
through HACCP accreditation. At present, 90 % of its products are exported to South Korea, 
Taiwan, Japan, Europe and U.S.. The proposed project is to build 9,504 square m.s, of which 4,500 
square m.s for processing workshops, 1,734 square m.s for cold storage, 1,110 square m.s for 
sewage treatment and 2,160 square m.s for warehouse. The project is to process 1,500 tons of 
aquatic products per annum, of which flavoring shells account for 1,000 tons and oyster for 500 
tons. 
   2.3 
Sewage Treatment Plant at Beigou Town
 
The plant is about 10 Km.s from Penglai city, located at Beigou which administrate 80 
villages with a total population of 60,000 and a total territory of 190 square Km.s. The proposed 
project is a small sewage treatment plant with an annual capacity of 10,000 tons. The town does 
not have a sewage treatment plant yet although it has 200 medium and small sized enterprises at 
the side close to the Penglai city proper. Expanding of aquiculture results in an increasing number 
of processing plants. Businessmen from Japan and South Korea import the finished products from 
the cultured raw materials which are largely processed by small sized plants, who, in order to 
make remarkable profits, always build the processing facilities without sewage treatment. It has 
become aware that pollution has affected the environment, the tourist attraction and the 
aquiculture. The Penglai Municipal Government has made up its mind to control pollution by the 
processing industry. It is then decided to build a sewage treatment plant for the proposed project 
and the adjacent processing plants with the Bank fund. More sewage plants will be set up 
following this example. The plant, with an annual capacity of 10,000 tons, is to occupy 9,900 
square m.s and have a green coverage of 3,500 square m.s.  
Page  8
 
 8
   2.4 
Sewage Treatment Plant at Chaoshui Town 
        Chaoshui Town administrates 53 villages with a total population of 32,000, a total territory of 
90 square Km.s and a coastal line of 17 Km.s. Situation of aquatic processing and sewage 
treatment is similar with Beigou Town. The town is 32 Km.s from Penglai city. It has 120 medium 
and small sized enterprises dominated by aquatic processing. The proposed project is a small 
sewage treatment plant with an annual capacity of 10,000 tons. The plant is to occupy 20,000 
square m.s and have 3,500 square m.s of green coverage. 
3.
 Fangchenggang Municipality of Guangxi
 
   Fangchenggang Municipality is located at China’s southwest coastal end. It is facing the North 
Bay and neighbors with Vietnam. Its total population is 780,000 and total territory of 6,181 square 
Km.s with a city proper of 17 square Km.s. Guangxi is a large agricultural producer and its 
southern part is particularly important for sugar cane, fruit trees and paddy rice. The North Bay is a 
traditional fishing ground. Due to the signing of the fishing agreement between Chinese and 
Vietnamese governments, the Chinese fishermen have to retreat from a part of the bay where they 
used to fish. To offset the affection on the fishermen’s livelihood, the Chinese government has set 
up a resettlement program for those fishermen who are to shift from fishing to aquiculture. The 
proposed sub-projects are a part of the mentioned efforts. MOA and local government will provide 
financial support to the participating fishermen. 
  3.1
 Coastal Zone Management Center 
The center is aimed at protection on marine resources and environment. Fangchenggang 
has a coastal line of 584 Km.s, which need to be monitored and protected. The government has 
decided to set up a center to monitor the coastal resources, protect the environment and control the 
fish diseases with the Bank fund. The project is to be implemented by the municipal government 
with joint participation of the fishery bureau and the marine administration that are both involved 
in marine resource monitoring and environment protection. The center is to be built at the newly 
established city proper with a total area of 6,000 square m.s including 2,000 square m.s of green 
coverage. The main building will be used for fish disease control center, marine planning section, 
offices and technical training rooms.  
  3.2 
Yuanyi Aquatic Product Processing Plant 
No existing processing plant conforms to HACCP or European standards. The proposed 
project aims at the largest processing plant with HACCP standard in the municipality. The plant is 
to be built in the municipal industrial and economic development zone. It is to occupy 30,000 
square m.s with a green coverage of 4,200 square m.s. It has an annual processing capacity of 
6,500 tons and an ice making capacity of 9,000 tons. The project is to employ more than 200 
fishermen retired from banned fishing. At the busy season, the total employment will exceed 1,000 
workers. 80 % of the job opportunities will be offered to women due to the labor-intensive nature 
of the process. Guangxi is the ethnic concentration region although Fangchenggang has few ethnic 
groups. The proposed project has made the plan to employ ethnic people of the Zhuang Nationality 
in first priority. Part of the processed products will be exported to Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan 
and Southeast Asia but the majority is to be supplied to the domestic markets such as Guizhou, 
Guangzhou, Nanning and Shanghai. The plant management believes there is no much difference 
between export and domestic sales in terms of profitability and market access.  
  3.3 
Marine Fish Hatchery 
Page  9
 
 9
The hatchery is to be built at Qisha Town, about 31 Km.s away from Fangchenggang city 
proper. It is surrounded by the sea at 3 sides, with a total area of 167,000 square m.s including a 
green coverage of 3,000 square m.s. The hatchery is to produce quality figurines including 
800,000 heads of groupers and 7.7 million heads of snappers per annum. Qisha is the second 
largest fishing harbor in Guangxi. Its annual trading turnover amounts to 170,000 tons. Aquatic 
trading and processing forms the pillar of the local economy. Qisha harbor has close linkage with 
Vietnamese fishing boats. About 60% of the fishing boats trading in the harbor is from Vietnam 
while a few is from Taiwan and Indonesia.                  
   3.4 
Marine Cage Culture
 
         Fangchenggang is facing at the North Bay. With few industrial operations, the natural 
environment is well preserved. At present, there is no deep marine cage culture yet. The proposed 
project is to be located at the coastal side of Tiantangpo Township by building 20 cages to be laid 
at the depth of 10 –15 m.s. Each cage has a diameter of 13 – 15 m.s with a depth of 6 – 8 m.s. The 
site has the sub-tropical marine water features with an annual averaged temperature of 20 degrees 
centigrade. Tide current is of the normal whole day type with a fluctuation of 2.2 m.s. Water 
quality is in conformity of Grade I of the National Standard. 
4. 
Tangshan Municipality of Hebei Province 
Tangshan Municipality, located at the northern part of the Bohai Sea, is Hebei’s important 
fishery producer. It has a coastal line of 210 Km.s. Tangshan is also an important port for shipment 
of coal, iron and steel. In tradition, Tangshan is an important shells supplier to South Korea and 
Japan. In recent years, Tangshan has become the pioneer in culture of shrimps combined with 
jellyfish. 
  4.1 
Shells Hatchery   
The proposed project is to be built in Ruannan County, about 30 Km.s from the Tangshan 
city proper. The county located at the northern part of the Bohai Sea is an important fishery 
producer of Hebei Province. It has highways linking with both Beijing and Tianjing. With a 
coastal line of 80 Km.s, the county administrates 21 fishing villages with a total population of 
50,000 including a total labor force of 15,000 to operate more than 1,000 fishing boats. The county 
is a traditional shells producer and exporter. The hatchery is to be built at the coastal beaches about 
3 Km.s away from the Bohai Sea. 
   4.2 
Coastal Zone Management Center   
        T
he center is to be built in Kaiping District of the municipality, which administrates 6 
townships with a total population of 260,000 including 120,000 engaged in agriculture. Along the 
210 Km.s coastal line, there exist operations of shipbuilding, iron and steel making, chemical 
industry, coal shipment and tourism. The municipal marine and fishery bureau has done a great 
deal on marine environment protection and executes quite rigid and strict rule when endorsing use 
of marine waters. However, following the regional economic development, much more serious 
attention must be paid to the protection on marine environment and coastal resources. 
B. 
Environmental Impact by the Sub-Projects and Measures for Alleviation 
1.  Xiangshan County of Zhejiang Province 
1.1 Coastal Zone Management Center
        
Of the total cost of RMB. 23.946 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 
1.79 million and cost for environment protection for 300,000 yuan. The project may cause slight 
Page  10
 
 10
affection on environment. Potential pollutants include 1) sewage water: domestic sewage and 
water discharged by the laboratories; 2) waste air: displacement by the laboratories; 3) noises: 
from air conditioning and standby power generator; 4) solid refuses: domestic garbage from 
offices; 5) petrol oil and refuses from the patrol and inspection boat; and 6) dust and noises during 
construction of the civil works. 
   Measures to be undertaken: Sewage water is to be filtered through grids, go through anaerobic 
treatment and sedimentation before release to the sewage treatment plant of the industrial 
development zone; Waste air is to be displaced through higher discharging pipes; Noise is to be 
prevented by setting noise making machines like power generators in isolated housing farther 
away from living quarters; solid refuses are to be handled by sanitation departments in an unified 
way; Waste fuel, water and solid refuses of the patrol inspection boats are to be handled by 
sanitation departments when returning back to the harbor after the mission; Dust and noise during 
construction of civil works are to be alleviated by ground watering, coverage of dust making 
sources and prohibition on working operations in late evenings. 
1.2 Marine Ecologic Natural Reserve on Jiushan Island 
Of total cost of RMB. 6.03 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 414,000. 
The project itself does not cause negative affection on environment since it requires very few 
people stationing on the island. The small observatory station and dock may produce some 
domestic garbage and solid refuse when human activities exist. Aseptic tank is to be built to collect 
sewage water. Solid refuse is to be wrapped and shipped back for unified disposal by sanitation 
departments. Waste fuel, water and solid refuse by the patrol boat are also to be collected and 
shipped back for unified disposal by the sanitation departments. For design and construction of the 
small observatory station and dock, adequate attention is to be paid to proper conservation of the 
surrounding environment.  
1.3 Huayi Aquatic Food Processing Co. Ltd 
Among total cost of RMB.33.994 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 1.024 million 
and cost on environment protection for RMB.820,000 yuan. Potential pollutants include: 1) Waste air, mainly 
smoke from processing; 2) Waste water from processing, washing and rinsing and domestic sewage; 3) Solid 
refuses such as fish heads and bones; 4) noises from refrigerators, generators and machines working in various 
workshops; and 5) dust and noise during construction of civil works. 
   Measures to be undertaken: An independent waste water treatment facility is to be installed. Waste water 
discharged from processing and domestic sewage are to be treated through filtration, anaerobic treatment and 
sedimentation before release to the unified treatment plant; Solid refuses are to be collected for fish meal 
production; Mud fro sedimentation is to be dried for brick making; Refrigerating agent (liquid ammonia ) and 
fuel oil are to be stored and handled in accordance with the national rules on use, transportation and storage of 
dangerous articles. 
        
 1.4 Feiri Aquatic Industrial Co. Ltd 
Of its total cost of RMB. 44.94 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 
2.865 million and cost on environment protection for RMB.1.94 million yuan. Major potential 
pollutants include: 1) Waste water from processing operations and domestic sewage; 2) Waste air, 
mainly smoke from boilers and processing operations; 3) Solid refuses, mainly 2,000 tons of shells 
and mud from sewage treatment; 4) Mechanical noises from refrigerators and operational 
machines in the workshops. 
Page  11
 
 11
   Measures to be undertaken: A sewage treatment facility is to be installed as a part of the project 
to be constructed. Waste water is to be treated by the facility through filtration, anaerobic 
treatment and sedimentation before release. Shells are to be made into shell meal. Viscera from 
shell fish are to be collected and used as raw material for fish meal making. Mud from 
sedimentation of sewage treatment is to be used for brick making. Other domestic solid refuses are 
to be collected for unified disposal by sanitation departments. Noise and dust prevention during 
construction period is to be subject to national rules on noise and dust prevention for urban civil 
construction. 
1.4 Xianglong Aquatic Food Co. Ltd 
Of its total cost of RMB.32.56 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$1.625 
million and cost on environment protection for RMB. 600,000 Yuan. Major potential pollutants 
are: 1) Waste water from processing and domestic sewage; 2) Waste air, mainly smoke from 
processing; 3) solid refuses, including 800 tons of fish viscera and shrimp heads, mud from 
sedimentation and domestic garbage; 4) Mechanical noise from operation of the machines; and 5) 
Dust and noise during construction of civil works. 
   Measures to be undertaken: Waste water and sewage are to be pre-treated by its own facility 
through grid filtration, anaerobic treatment and sedimentation before release to the unified 
treatment plant at the industrial development zone. Odor from processing is to be controlled up to 
the national standard GB14554-93 ( odor pollutant release standard ) and smoke from processing 
controlled up to the national standard GWPB5-2000 ( smoke release standard for catering 
business). Solid refuses such as fish head, viscera, shrimp head and fish bone are to be collected 
for fish meal making. Domestic solid refuses are to be collected for unified disposal by sanitation 
departments. Mud from sedimentation is collected for brick making and some residue is to be 
buried by sanitation departments. 
        
  1.5 Chaoxing Marine Biological Products Co. Ltd  
Of its total cost of RMB.37.37 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 
2.238 million and cost on environment protection for RMB.600,000 yuan. Major potential 
pollutants are: 1) Waste water from processing operations at annual consumption of 220,000 tons; 
2) Smoke from the 4 ton capacity coal boiler and 360 ton of coal residue per annum; 3) 230 tons of 
solid refuses from kelp processing per annum; 4) Domestic garbage; and 5) Mechanical noises.  
Measures to be undertaken: The boiler is to employ anthracite coal as the fuel. Smoke is to go 
through water membrane for dust and sulfide removal before release into atmosphere. Odor from 
processing is to be alleviated by acid and alkaline spraying before release. Waste water is to be 
pre-treated by filtration, anaerobic and chemical treatment and sedimentation before release to the 
sewage treatment plant at the industrial development zone. Coal residue and mud are to be 
collected for brick making. Residue from kelp processing is to be collected for animal feed. Boiler 
and grounders are to be isolated to prevent noise pollution. 
          
1.6 Zhejiang Aquatic Shopping Center ( Wholesale Market ) 
Of its total cost of RMB.63.88 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for 
U.S.$2.617 million and cost on environment protection for RMB. 1.3 million yuan. Major 
potential pollutants are: 1) Rejected fish from trading transactions; 2) Odor produced from trading 
halls; 3) Waste water from ground cleaning; 4) Noises from ice making, power generating and 
Page  12
 
 12
trading transactions; 5) Domestic garbage and sewage water; and 6) Dust and noise during 
construction of civil works. 
Measures to be undertaken: Rejected fishes are to be collected in time for fish meal making; 
Domestic garbage and other solid refuses are collected for unified disposal by sanitation 
departments; waste water at the daily production of 600 tons is to be treated by a newly built 
sewage treatment facility at the cost of the project according to the national standard GB8978-
1996 (standard on aggregated release of waste water ); During construction, dust proof and noise 
prevention measures are to be undertaken according to national standard on sanitation requirement 
for urban construction of civil works. 
2.  Penglai Municipality of Shandong Province  
          2.1 Costal Zone Management Center 
Of its total cost of RMB.13.12 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 
817,000
. 
The project itself is aimed at environment protection, which does not cause pollution, 
except a few amount of waste water, waste air, domestic garbage and sewage need to be properly 
disposed. It is to install higher displacement outlets for laboratories. Domestic garbage and solid 
refuses are to be collected for unified disposal by sanitation departments. The center is to be built 
within the tourism zone with a number of scenic spots. It is planned to build an exhibition hall on 
the ground floor to introduce marine living beings and environment. It is recommended that the 
exhibition also covers protection on marine living beings and impact by human activities on 
marine environment. The center has 40% of area under green coverage, which helps conserve the 
surrounding environment. 
          
 2.2  Jinglu Fishery Co. Ltd   
                Of its total cost of RMB.29.97 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 1.89 
million and cost on environment protection for RMB. 2.54 million yaun. Major potential pollutants 
are: 1) Waste water from processing operations and domestic sewage; 2) Refuses from oyster 
processing including viscera and 3,600 tons of shells; and 3) Noise from refrigerators. The 
company now has 2 large processing workshops, which produce commodities for export to Japan, 
South Korea, U.S. and others. However, no waster water treatment facility is installed.  
   Measures to be undertaken: The company has pledged and planned to build an independent 
waste water treatment station when the Bank funded project is constructed. The station is to have a 
full capacity to treat all the waste water from both the existing and newly built processing 
facilities. In this connection, 9% of the total cost is to be allocated for construction of the station, 
which will meet the requirement of national standard GB8978-1996 ( standard on aggregated 
release of waste water ). After treatment, 10% of the waste water will be recycled for use. Oyster 
viscera are to be collected for fish meal making while the shells are buried at the designated site. 
Mechanical noise from ice making and other operations is to be prevented by isolate walls. 
        
 2.3 Waste Water Treatment Plant at Beigou Town
 
The project is to cost RMB.20.91 million yuan in total, of which the Bank funding 
accounts for U.S.$ 1.5 million. This is a very small waste water treatment plant, with a daily 
capacity of 10,000 tons. The waste water is to be treated according to the national standard 
GB8978-1996 ( standard on aggregated release of waste water ). Potential pollutants are: 1) Waste 
air with bad odor from ammonia and hydrogen sulfide; 2) Solid refuse, mainly mud; 3) Smoke 
from boilers; 4) Noise.  
Page  13
 
 13
Measures to be undertaken: Waste air is to be treated up to the national standard GB14554-93 
( standard on release of odor pollutants ); Smoke from boilers is to be controlled to the national 
standard GB13271-2001 ( standard on release of atmospheric pollutants by boilers ); Water 
treatment produces 3.7 tons of mud daily, which will be dehydrated to the standard GB4284-84 
(standard on control of mud pollutants for farming ); Noise is to be controlled by installation of 
sound isolation facilities surrounding the noise making equipment. 
        
 2.4 Waste Water Treatment Plant at Chaoshui Town
 
             The project is to cost RMB.24.9 million yuan, of which the Bank funding 
accounts for U.S.$ 1.5 million. This is another small waste water treatment plant similar to the 
plant to be built at Beigou Town., with a daily capacity of 10,000 tons. The waste water is to be 
treated according to the national standard GB8978-1996 ( standard on aggregated release of waste 
water ). Potential pollutants are: 1) Waste air with bad odor from ammonia and hydrogen sulfide; 
2) Solid refuse, mainly mud; 3) Smoke from boilers; 4) Noise.  
Measures to be undertaken: Waste air is to be treated up to the national standard GB14554-93 
( standard on release of odor pollutants ); Smoke from boilers is to be controlled to the national 
standard GB13271-2001 ( standard on release of atmospheric pollutants by boilers ); Water 
treatment produces 3.7 tons of mud daily, which will be dehydrated to the standard GB4284-84 
(standard on control of mud pollutants for farming ); Noise is to be controlled by installation of 
sound isolation facilities surrounding the noise making equipment. 
3. Fangchenggang Municipality of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
 
3.1 Costal Zone Management Center
 
Of its total cost of RMB.16.33 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 980,000
 
and 
cost on environment for RMB.360,000 yuan. The project itself is aimed at environment protection, 
which does not cause pollution, except a few amount of waste water, waste air, domestic garbage 
and sewage need to be properly disposed. It is to install higher displacement outlets for 
laboratories. Domestic garbage and solid refuses are to be collected for unified disposal by 
sanitation departments. The center is to be built in the newly established city proper, which is quite 
close to the potential coastal tourism zone with a number of scenic spots. It is planned to build an 
exhibition hall on the ground floor to introduce marine living beings and environment. It is 
recommended that the exhibition also covers protection on marine living beings and impact by 
human activities on marine environment.  
          
3.2 Yuanyi Aquatic Freezing Processing Plant 
Of its total cost of RMB.53.37 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 3.06 
million and cost on environment protection for RMB. 990,000 yuan. Major potential pollutants 
are: 1) Waste water from processing and domestic sewage; 2) Bad odor mainly from processing; 3) 
solid refuses of processing residues such as shells, fish viscera and shrimp heads, mud from 
sedimentation and domestic garbage; 4) Mechanical noise from refrigerators and operational 
machines; and 5) Dust and noise during construction of civil works. 
   Measures to be undertaken: Waste water and sewage are to be treated by its own facility through 
grid filtration, anaerobic treatment and sedimentation up to the national standard GB8978-1966 
before discharging. Odor from processing is to be controlled up to the national standard GB14554-
93 ( odor pollutant release standard ) and smoke from processing controlled up to the national 
standard GWPB5-2000 ( smoke release standard for catering business). Solid refuses such as fish 
Page  14
 
 14
head, viscera, shrimp head and fish bone are to be collected for fish meal making. Domestic solid 
refuses are to be collected for unified disposal by sanitation departments. Mud from sedimentation 
is collected for brick making and some residue is to be buried at the designated site. Refrigerating 
agent ( liquid ammonia ) is a dangerous chemical, which is to be shipped and stored subject to the 
national rule on control of shipment and storage of dangerous chemicals. There exists mangrove at 
the nearby coast. Study by the Guangxi Mangrove Research Institute has proven that mangrove 
contributes to control of water and soil contamination. Discharged waste water up to the national 
standard is not harmful but provides nutrients such as N and P to mangrove. However, attention 
will be paid to monitoring the growth situation of mangrove in accordance with experts’ advice. 
         
3.3 Marine Fish Hatchery 
Of its total cost of RMB.16.23 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 
748,000 and cost on environment protection for RMB.660,000 yuan. Major potential pollutants 
are: dust and noise during construction of civil works; during normal operation, there is water with 
organic nitrogen an organic phosphate discharged from the hatchery, together with feed residue, 
fish manure and contaminated mud; water pumps and boilers make noises and displace waste air 
and coal residue; and in addition, it also produces domestic garbage. 
Measures to be undertaken: Noise and dust are to be controlled during construction according 
to pertinent national rules and ground be promptly paved or green covered. Domestic solid refuses 
are to be collected for unified disposal by sanitation departments. Boilers are to consume 
anthracite coals and smoke is displaced through high chimney after dust removal. Drugs and 
chemicals are to be subject to strict control to minimize figurine and water contamination. Waste 
water is discharged in batches after sedimentation, degradation and sterilization in aseptic ponds. 
Mud from sedimentation is to be dehydrated and used for brick making or road building. Low 
noise making mechanical equipment is to be employed or silencers are to be installed. 
           
3.4 Marine Cage Culture 
The project cost RMB.6.97 million yuan in total of which the Bank funding 
accounts for US$ 393,000. In line with the national rules, application of nation-wide forbidden 
drugs is strictly prohibited at any time during operation. It is to exercise a regular test and 
inspection system on marine water and fishes. Feeds are to be analyzed by sampling to prevent 
contamination by poor quality feeds. The site sees fast tide current at a velocity of 80 Cm./sec. 
Under normal situation, water can be dispersed to 25 Km.s away in 10 hours. Therefore it is hard 
to cause contamination to surrounding marine environment by feed residue or fish manure. 
However, it is recommended by aquatic experts that cages should be moved from time to time and 
foreign attachments on cages be cleared when possible. 
4.  Tangshan Municipality of Hebei Province 
4.1 Costal Zone Management Center
   
Of its total cost of RMB.25 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for U.S.$ 1.12 
million and cost on environment for RMB.200,000 yuan. The project itself is aimed at 
environment protection which brings forth little impact on surrounding environment, except a few 
amount of waste water, waste air, domestic garbage and sewage and dust and noise during 
construction need to be properly disposed. It is to install higher displacement outlets for 
laboratories. Domestic garbage and solid refuses are to be collected for unified disposal by 
sanitation departments. Dust and noises are to controlled according to national rules on urban 
Page  15
 
 15
construction of civil works. It is also recommended by specialists that a pre-warning and pre-
forecasting system should be set up to encounter emergent accidents by the center together with 
pertinent departments such as the port administration, ocean shipment, fuel tanks, wharfs, cargo 
shipment and coal shipment, etc. since Tangshan is rather developed along the coast. 
4.2 Shell Fish Hatchery 
                  
Of its total cost of RMB.19.92 million yuan, the Bank funding accounts for US$ 1.538 
million and cost on environment protection for RMB.1.6 million yuan. The hatchery is located 3 
Km.s away from the coast. Perfect inlet and outlet canal system is available. The hatchery is 
largely to use underground water for hatching operation, which is recycled after sedimentation, 
biological treatment and ozonic sterilization. Shell fishers have the effect on water purification. 
Scientific culture of shell fishes helps protect marine environment. So the hatching process does 
not pollute environment. The hatchery has a small boiler to operate 20 days a year when small 
hatching ponds need to be heated. It is recommended to use anthracite coals to alleviate pollution. 
It has been noticed that the hatchery is to be built within the Bohai Oil Field Development Zone. 
Oil harvesting machines are spread in this area. Under normal situation, the machines are well 
maintained and the oil piping lines are well sealed. However, it is recommended by experts that 
joint efforts need to be made to protect against oil leakage accidents together with the oil field 
administration. 
C. 
Monitoring on the Project Environment 
1. 
Necessary Monitoring System to Be Established on Project Environment
  
The project is designed to aim at promotion of sustainable development of coastal resources. 
On one hand, the project helps build a number of coastal zone management centers to strengthen 
the technical and administrative capabilities on monitoring and evaluation of coastal resources. On 
the other hand, the project helps set up aquiculture and processing subprojects to create more job 
opportunities for the fishermen who are willing to shift from fishing to land stationed activities, 
thus to help alleviate heavy burdens on natural environment and resources. Therefore, the sub-
projects, with the coastal zone management centers in particular, are requested, with the Bank’s 
financial and technical assistance, to make great efforts for the purpose. When the sub-projects are 
implemented, their impact on the surrounding environment must be minimized by every means, 
while monitoring and evaluation systems and procedures are formulated to ensure that human 
activities are always subject to careful and rigid inspection and they would not cause destructive 
affection on marine waters, coastal zones and offshore islands. It is also requested that reports on 
environment monitoring and evaluation must be prepared and submitted to both MOA and The 
Bank on regular basis. 
2. 
Environmental Monitoring on Coastal Zone Management Centers
     
Construction of a number of the centers is a very important component of the project. Cost 
of the centers as a whole accounts for 16% of the total cost of the project. China is the pioneer to 
carry out coastal zone management with the Bank loan.  
   The center itself does not imply negative impact on environment. Dust and noises during 
construction will disappear automatically when the construction of civil works is completed. All 
the centers are to be built in cities where there is well built sewage discharging networks and 
garbage disposal means. Local governments always appropriate funds through their annual budget 
to sufficiently support the sanitation departments to handle these matters. In addition, the 
Page  16
 
 16
departments also charge on the amount they have disposed for the users according to agreements 
between the users and the departments that clearly specify the annual discharging volume by each 
particular user. 
3. 
Environmental Monitoring on Aquatic Processing Plants 
6 aquatic processing plants are newly proposed plus 1 wholesale market. These sub-projects 
are to produce a large quantity of waste water, waste air and solid refuses. They are requested to 
operate under strict control of pertinent national rules and regulations. However, Experts have 
recommended that MOA and local governments should undertake measures to further monitor 
their surrounding environment as follows: 
a. 
In design scheme, the sub-projects should have technological flow for waste water 
treatment, which need to be endorsed by the local environment protection agencies. 
Cost of the waste water treatment facilities must be incorporated in budgets of the 
total costs. Solid garbage must be collected for unified disposal by the sanitation 
departments and fees should be budgeted into the operational cost; 
b.  Processing and environment protection facilities must be built simultaneously; 
c. 
Reimbursement is only effected when it is proven that the waste water treatment 
facilities are completed and put into normal operation; 
d.  During normal operation, reports on running of waste water treatment facilities 
together with analyzed results of the discharged water must be submitted twice a year 
to the CPMO, MOA, by June 30 and December 31 respectively in both Chinese and 
English. Storage and use of the refrigerating agent ( liquid ammonia ) and measures 
to protect against emergent accident must be specified in the reports. A condensed 
consolidated report will be prepared by CPMO and submitted to the Bank and local 
environment protection agencies. 
e. 
Cost for discharging water after treatment, disposal of solid refuses, laboratory test 
and analysis, training on environment protection and procurement of environment 
protection facilities must be planned and budgeted in a consolidated scheme. 
4. 
Environmental Monitoring on Hatcheries, Cages and Mangrove 
Marine water and soil at the adjacent and surrounding area must be tested and analyzed 
on regular basis to assess the pollution and contamination potential by the project. Necessary 
measures must be taken when problems are identified.  
a. 
Water quality, both of marine water where the cages are located and of water in 
hatcheries must be tested twice a year and corrective actions be taken when necessary 
in accordance with national rules. The reports must be submitted to CPMO by June 
30 and December 31 respectively, both in Chinese and English. Drugs if any, feeds 
used and diseases identified and their impact on environment must also be specified. 
CPMO will prepare a condensed report and submit to the Bank and local environment 
protection agencies. 
b.  According to experts’ recommendations, cages should be removed at a certain area 
every 1-2 years. 
c. 
Though Ruannan County in Hebei Province is exporting shellfishes to Japan and 
South Korea, its proposed hatchery is to be built in an area with many petrol oil 
harvesting machines. It has been noticed that the machines are well maintained and 
Page  17
 
 17
protected and the oil piping lines are well sealed. However, it is recommended by 
experts that there exists oil leakage risks, which may contaminate ground water and 
soils. Therefore, it is required, on one hand, the hatchery keeps close contact and 
takes joint efforts with the oil field to protect against emergent accident, and on the 
other hand, the hatchery analyzes the ground water and soils regularly. It is requested 
that the hatchery submits the result reports twice a year to CPMO, the Bank and the 
local environment protection agencies. It is recommended by MOA that the Bank 
may entrust a research institution at the national level to monitor the hatchery for 3 
successive years and submit reports twice a year to MOA, the Bank and local 
environment protection agencies, just similar to the practice by Yingkou on marine 
water test. The cost is estimated at US$ 30,000 and hopefully to be budgeted into the 
Bank loan.  
d.  Yuanyi aquatic processing plant in Fangchenggang Municipality is to be built close to 
the coast where there exists a mangrove plantation. It has been noted that the plant is 
to build its own waste water treatment facility and the water discharged will conform 
to the national standard. However, it is recommended by experts that attention must 
be paid to the quality variance of the marine water at the discharging outlet. It is 
required that the processing plant should entrust the local environment protection 
bureau to carry out evaluation on marine water and mangrove twice a year. The 
reports should be submitted to CPMO and the Bank. The plant should make budget 
for this action accordingly. 
5. Applicable 
National Standards 
Environmental Atmospheric Quality Standard  (GB3097-1996) 
Marine Water Quality Standard  (GB3097-1997)
    
Environmental Noise Standard for Urban Area  (GB3096-93) 
Aggregate Release Standard for Waste Water  (GB8978-1996) 
Odor Pollutants Release Standard  (GB14554-93) 
Atmospheric Pollutants Release Standard for Boilers  (GB13271-2001) 
Mud Pollutants Control Standard for Farming Purpose  (GB4284-84) 
Noise Control Standard for Industrial Enterprises  (GB12348-90) 
Page  18
 
 18
 
 
 
Tangshan, Hebei Province
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tangshang Fishery Supervision and Inspection Center 
 
Construction Project of Shoal Shellfish Seedlings Aquaculture [Clam and jellyfish hatchery] 
 
Page  19
 
 19
Environmental Influence Report of the Construction Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name:
 
Tangshan  Fishery  Supervision  and  Inspection  Center  
 
Construction Unit: China Tangshan City Animal Husbandry and Fishery 
Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
D. 
Date: march 4, 2004 
E.  
Authorized by the General Bureau of National Environment Protection
 
Page  20
 
 20
Qualification Certificate for Environmental  Influence  Appraisement   
 
Assessment Unit:  Altocumulus Research Institute of Hebei Province 
 
Project Representative Director: Fan Yinqi
 
Description of the assessment personnel 
 
Name 
 
Speciality 
Majored 
 
Title 
 
Certificate 
Number 
 
Responsibility 
 
 
Fin Yin-qi 
 
Environment 
assessment 
 
Senior 
Engineer 
 
No. 
B12190005 
Report charges 
 
 
Fan Hui-xin 
 
Environment 
assessment 
 
Engineer 
 
 Report 
making 
 
 
Han Zhi-cheng 
 
Environment 
assessment 
 
Vice-director 
 
 Report 
auditing 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
Basic Description of the Construction Project
 
Project Name 
 
Tangshan Fishery Supervision and Inspection Center  
 
nstruction Unit 
 
Tangshan City Animal Husbandry and Fishery Bureau 
 
Page  21
 
 21
Ficticious Person 
 
Yan Sheng-Hua 
Linkman
Yan Sheng-
Hua  
Address 
 
Tang Gu Road ,Kai Ping district Tangshan city, Hebei 
Province 
 
Telephone 
 
0315_23150
42 
Fax 
 
0315_2315042 Post 
Code 
06300
0 
 
Construction Area 
 
Tang Gu Road ,Kai Ping district Tangshan city, Hebei 
Province 
 
Examination&Appro
val  Department of 
the Project 
Establishment 
 
 Approva
l 
Docume
nt 
Number 
 
 
Construction Type 
 
Reconstruction 
 
Industry 
Sort & 
Code 
Number 
 
 
Total Area (m
2
) 
 
27000 Virescence 
Area (m
2)
   
 
500  
Total Investment 
(million yuan) 
 
2500.5 Environme
nt 
Protection 
investment 
(million 
yuan) 
 
20 Proportion 
 
Assessment Cost 
(million yuan) 
 
 Predicted 
Put-into-
Production Date 
 
March, 2005 
 
 
Page  22
 
 22
Project Content and Scale: 
I. Civil works  
The planned project is going to use the disused office building of the 
breeding chicken farm, which is belonged to Tangshan City Animal 
Husbandry and Fishery Bureau, to carry on the reconstruction. No civil works.  
II. Main equipments 
The responsible necessary equipments are: .gas chromatograph, atomic 
absorption spectrometer, fluorescence spectrometer, multifunctional 
instrument for the quality of water, high-power biological microscope, 
electronic analytical balance, constant-temperature incubator, low-temperature 
fridge and other necessary instruments. 
III.  Main Energy Resource Consumption  
1. 
Total water consumption: 2t/d, tonnage: 2t/d; 
2. 
Total Electric Power: 10 kw/h; 
3. 
Fuel consumption: the project needs no fuel in the daily grind, the 
warming in winter adopts centralized supply. 
 
The original pollution and main environmental problem:  
  The project construction is located in the disused farm of Tangshan City 
Animal Husbandry and Fishery Bureau, there is no original pollution and 
environmental problem. 
Page  23
 
 23
Natural and social environmental conditions of the construction site 
Natural conditions (landform, physiognomy, geology, climate, weather, hydrology, vegetation, 
biology variety etc): 
 
The construction is located in Tang Gu Road ,Kai Ping district ,Tangshan city, at the foot of 
Yanshan Mountain, with a zone of hills slanting connect plain, and northeast high, southwest low 
hypsography. The landform is flat. The geology of this area belongs to Ordovician stratum . the climate 
here is temperate , belongs to continental climate, four seasons distinctly. it is cold and arid in winter , 
windy and dry in spring, hot ,  moist and rainy in summer, cool and moist in autumn. The ESE wind is 
prevailing in this district, the frequency is 11.89%,  the annual average wind speed is of 2.52 m/s, the 
annual average temperature is 12 
\1f
.The water system belongs to Dou River. There are no industrial and 
residential areas nearby.  
 
 
 
Social environmental conditions ( social and economic structures, education, culture, cultural relic 
protection etc) : 
     Kaiping district governs 6 towns, 132 villages, 6 street agencies. The gross area is 252 
square kilometers , the population is 260,449. of which 117,383 are engaged in agriculture, 
143,066 are not agricultural population.the population density is 1034 / square kilometers.  
In 1999, the gross products is 3,208,540,000 Yuan, the agricultural products is 195,180,000 
Yuan, the industrial products is 1,907,820,000 Yuan and the third industry is 1,105,540,000 Yuan. 
The proportion of them is 6.08%, 59.46% and 34.46% respectively.  
Crops have mainly: Wheat, corn, grain, potato, beans, vegetable and industrial crop etc.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of the quality of environment 
The environmental quality and its major problems of the construction site
 
(environmental 
air, surface water, ground water, sound environment, ecological environment etc)
 
1.Analysis of the atmosphere quality 
The average daily intensity of SO
2 
of this area is 0.016 ~ 0.028 mgs/ m
3
, the average intensity 
an hour is 0.011-0.042mgs/ m
3
. The average value of a day and an hour surpass the standard. ( the 
standard value is 0.15m
g
/m
3
)
. The avera
g
e dail
y
 intensit
y
 of TSP is 0.103 ~ 0.799m
g
/m
3
, its 
Page  24
 
 24
average daily value exceeds the standard value by 76.7%.  
According to the said atmospheric environmental quality, it is found that the  TSP pollution is 
serious. There are many pollutive sources, especially the structural pollution is serious, the 
contaminant is discharged heavily, the emission of part  pollutive sources can not reach the 
standard stably, besides, the construction places and stock fields and bare ground can cause dust by 
the wind, and the transportation can cause dust as well. All the said pollutive sources cause a high 
TSP density in atmosphere. 
2. Analysis of the surface water quality 
There are Dou river and pomegranate river in the district. The average water quality of the 
urban areas belongs to 5th class of bad water quality. The major contaminant is COD and NH
3
-N, 
come from the industrial effluent and sewage. Though, the sewage treatment plants have been 
established in north suburb and east suburb, partial industrial effluents and sewage directly emit 
into Dou river without any treatment because the city pipe net system has not been completed.  
The front part of the pomegranate river has a better water quality, but after the industrial 
effluent and sewage being poured into it, the water quality gets worse. Before the pomegranate 
river enter the Dou river, an inspection of this section shows that the density of COD
cr
 and BOD
5
 
is 43.82 mg/L and 9.93 mg/L respectively.  
3. Analysis of noise environment 
    North to the construction is Tang Gu highway, therefore the environmental noises are  mainly 
caused by the traffic..  
4. Analysis of the biological environment 
  Since the coal mining causes ground sinking, the ground buildings are destroied ,  the land using 
function reduces, a lot of industrial solid junks piled in farmland such as coal stone, slag and coal 
ash pollute the environment. 
 
The main environment protection targets ( list the targets and its protection grades) 
1)The resident and farmland are listed as the main protection targets.  
 2) Atmosphere: Carry out the secondary standard of the air quality, GB3095 — 96  
3)Water: Carry out the \1f standard of the surface water environmental quality, GB3838 — 2002 
4)Noise: Carry out the fourth regional standard of the city environmental noise. GB3096 — 93.  
 
 
Criteria of Appraisement 
 
Environmental Quality 
Criterion  
 
1.Environmental atmosphere quality criterion is 
conformed to the Grade Two Criterion of the 
Environmental Atmosphere Quality Criterion( 
GB3095 – 1996) 
2.the surface water quality is conformed to the V 
class of “the surface water quality 
criterion”,GB3838-2002. 
3.Noise environmental quality should be conformed 
to the fourth Class Criterion of City Noise 
Environment Criterion( GB3096 – 93). 
 
 
 
 
Contamination Emission 
Criterion  
 
(1) Wastewater emission control regulations 
should be conformed to the second grade 
Criterion of the Waste Water Emission 
Page  25
 
 25
Criterion (GB8978- 96). 
(2)  Noise emission should be conformed to the IV Class 
of the Industrial Corporation Noise Criterion( GB12348 
– 90). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Control 
Criterion  
 
the emission amount of effluent : 730 t/a  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  26
 
 26
Engineering Analysis of the construction Project 
Technical process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main Pollution process: 
In the process of examining the samples, some waste water with chemical reagents 
will be emitted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main source of pollutants and its predicted emission 
 
 
 
Emission 
source 
(with serial) 
Name  
 
Consistency 
and 
production 
Before 
Consistency 
and 
production 
After 
Conten
t
yp
e 
Page  27
 
 27
processing  
 
processing  
 
 
Air pollutant  
 
  
 
 
Water 
pollutant  
 
1 
 
 
Waste water 
730t/a 
730t/a 
Solid waste 
 
2 
 
 
Solid waste 
 
3.6t/a 3.6t/a 
Noise 
 
The noise in the project mainly comes from the 
concerning equipments at the wind pumping station. The 
source of the noise is graded 70 Db( A).  
 
 
 
Others 
 
 
 
 
The main influences on the environment 
 At first, the project is carrying on at the disused building, there will be some 
decoration works during the reconstruction, so it has little affection to the 
ecological environment. . second, the project does not belong to productive 
project, therefore, it has little affection to the ecological environment as well 
during the running period . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of Environment Influence 
 
Brief Analysis of Environment Influence During Construction
 
The project is carrying on at the disused building of the farm, there will be some 
decoration during the reconstruction of the building, the construction scale is small. 
Therefore, no flying dust be made by the construction. In the course of reconstruction, 
some noises will be produced, but there are no resident around 300m, so, it will not 
disturb the people nearby; it can leave a part of building rubbish, but can not affect the 
surroundings, if these building rubbishes are placed in designated place according to 
the requirement of the department of city building.  
Page  28
 
 28
 
Analysis of the environment influence during the running of the 
project: 
 
1. polluted 
air 
the power is electricity during the running of the project ,there is no fuel such as 
coal etc. that can cause air pollution. warm offered in winter adopts central air-
conditioner, it can not cause air pollution as well.  
2.waste water:  
the annual water consumption is 730 t, displacement is 730 t , the waste water 
contains some chemical reagents, it will cause certain influence to the water 
environment if it is not handled. The Project will adopt a special treatment system and 
drainage system to pure the waste water so that it will not affect the environment.  
3. Noise :  
The noise in the project mainly comes from the fans and other concerning 
equipments in the air pumping system. The source noise grade is 70dB( A). muffles 
are used in wind pipes to decrease the emission of noise. The noise grade will be 
reduced to below 55 dB ( A ).  
4. Solid junk :  
some solid waste such as the packing of chemical reagents etc. and some 
chemical reagents will be produced in the running course , these solid junks can 
pollute environment if being thrown without any treatment. so, they must be placed at 
designated place, especially, the waste  reagents must be handled according to the 
State Criteria. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
Planned prevention and treatment measures and anticipated effects 
 Resource 
 
 
Name of 
pollution 
 
Prevention  
Measures  
 
Anticipated 
effects 
 
 
Air pollution 
 
  
 
 
Water 
pollution 
1 Waste 
water 
Special 
treatment and 
drainage 
system will 
be adopted 
Reach the 
state Criteria  
Solid waste 
2 
Rubbish and 
waste 
reagents  
 
Treatment 
according to 
the request 
and placed at 
designated 
place  
No influence 
on the 
environment 
Conte
t
yp
e 
Page  29
 
 29
Noise 
The wind pump station will make use of low noisy pump, 
Noise emission should be conformed to the IV Class of the 
Industrial Corporation Noise Criterion( GB12348 – 90). 
Others  
 
 
 
 
The methods of the environment protection and the anticipated effect 
 
 
 
 
None  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion and suggestions: 
Conclusion  
I. Construction purpose 
1. To supervise and inspect the fishery water, try to guarantee its accordance 
with the national standard;  
2.To supervise and inspect aquaculture medicine and feed,try to guarantee 
fishing medicine and feed accord with the quality requirement and the standard of 
environmental protection;  
3.To develop disease quarantine detection of aquatic animal and forecast 
disastrous disease, offer reliable guarantee for the aquaculture disease of 
prevention and cure; 
4.To develop the quality detection of aquatic product, provide assistance for 
the establishment and enforcement of aquatic product market qualification system, 
ensure the quality of aquatic product reaches the national quality standard, so that 
people can enjoy excellent aquatic product;  
5.To carry out the planned fishery technical training to improve the 
comprehensive quality and the production ability of the aquaculture breeders;  
6.To offer accurate and reliable data for the administrative departments in 
order to provide them with the scientific basis to establish and carry out the 
reasonable laws and regulations. 
On the whole, the project is necessary. 
II. Site 
The project is located in the disused farm of Tangshan city animal 
husbandry and fishery burea, in the south of Kaiping district, north to it is 
Tang Gu Road, east and south are farmland, 300m west to it is residence 
area(fig.1). nearby, there are no river, water source, natural protective area, 
cultural relic, si
g
ht and other environmental sensitive 
p
lace, the site is 
Page  30
 
 30
reasonable. 
III. Construction content and scale 
The total investment is estimated for \1f25,000,000. The project is planned 
to carry out in Tangshan city urban area, covering the area of 26670m2 with 
the construction area of 5,000m2. The responsible necessary equipments are: 
.gas chromatograph, atomic absorption spectrometer, fluorescence 
spectrometer, multifunctional instrument for the quality of water, high-power 
biological microscope, electronic analytical balance, constant-temperature 
incubator, low-temperature fridge and other necessary instruments. Total 
water consumption: 2t/d, tonnage: 2t/d; Total Electric Power: 10 kw/h; 
IV. the pollutant treatment 
1.the polluted air 
The power is electricity during the running of the project ,there is no fuel 
such as coal etc. that can cause air pollution. warm offered in winter adopts 
central air-conditioner, it can not cause air pollution as well. 
2.waste water:  
The annual water consumption is 730 t, displacement is 730 t , the waste 
water contains some chemical reagents, it will cause certain influence to the 
water environment if it is not handled. The Project will adopt a special 
treatment system and drainage system to pure the waste water so that it will 
not affect the environment. 
3. noise :  
The noise in the project mainly comes from the fans and other 
concerning equipments in the air pumping system. The source noise grade is 
70dB( A). muffles are used in wind pipes to decrease the emission of noise. 
The noise intensity will be reduced to below 55 dB ( A ).  
4. Solid junk :  
Some solid waste such as the packing of chemical reagents etc. and some 
chemical reagents will be produced in the running course, these solid junks 
can pollute environment if being thrown away without any treatment. so, they 
must be placed at designated place, especially, the waste  reagents must be 
handled according to the State Criteria. 
On the whole, the project is feasible in the environmental protection. 
V. suggestions  
1.to set up the environmental protection establishment, comply to the said 
requirements strictly.  
2 especially to guarantee the construction of the treatment and drainage 
system of sewage. To establish strict and effective regulations, determine the 
processing technique and methods for the sewage according to the quantity 
and category of chemical reagents used in daily work, be sure that the sewage 
drainage reaches the State Criteria;  
3 \1fthe  waste chemical reagents should be treated strictly according to the 
relevant requirement, after properly treatment , put at designated place;  
4 strictly safekeeping the poisonous goods;  
5.to place the work of environmental protection into the overall agenda 
schedule of the project, provide and carry out the head responsible system. 
Every one should take the responsibility to implement his task respectively, 
inspect regularly. Assign special  environment protecters in charge of the 
daily protection work, take a good care of the protecting implements and keep 
the administering effect.  
Page  31
 
 31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Preliminary Examination Opinion:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                          Seal 
Sign:                                                 Date: 
 
Examination Opinion From the Junior Environmental 
Protection Department: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
 Seal 
Sign:
                                                 
Date:
 
 
 
Page  32
 
 32
 
 
 
 
 
Examination and Approval Opinion: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       
 Seal 
Sign:
                                                 
Date:
 
 
 
 
The approval table of environment protection of construction project  
Serial number
\01
                                                      sign
\01
 
Page  33
 
 33
  Project name  
Tangshan city fishery supervision 
and inspection center 
Construct
ion site 
Kaiping 
district 
 Constructing unit 
Tangsgan city animal 
husbandry and fishery 
beurea 
Post 
code 
063000 phon
e 
2315042 
  Enterprise 
category  
inspection 
Construc
tion 
character 
reconstruction 
scale 
Occupy an area of 27000
m
2
 
Report 
category 
Report table 
 Instauration 
department 
 Doc
ume
nt 
num
ber 
 
time  
Control 
area 
 
Approval 
department of 
the report 
 Doc
ume
nt 
num
ber 
 time 
 
  Total investment 
25,005 thousand 
yuan
  
Environment 
protection 
investment 
        200thousand 
yuan 
proportion  
 Report compiler 
     
  
Environment 
appraisement 
costs 
       
 actuality 
of 
environment 
quality 
Criteria of 
environment quality 
    Criteria of emission 
enforcement     
   
atmosphere 
 
GB3095—96,second 
grade 
 
  Surface 
water 
 
GB3838—2002,\1f 
class 
GB8978\1f96,second 
grade
 
  
groundwate
r 
  
 
   Yawp  
 
GB3096—93,fourth 
class 
GB12348\1f90 \1f 
class
 
                          Pollution control index 
Control item 
 
 
The 
beginning 
quantity of 
emission  
J
 
emission of 
new 
construction 
K
 
Reduced 
quantity of 
treatment 
L
 
Reduced 
quantity of 
new instead of 
old 
M
 
Increase 
and reduce 
 
N
 
Total 
emission 
O
 
Approval 
emission 
\07
 
Regional 
reduced 
quantity 
\07
 
Density 
before 
treatmen
t 
\07
 
Forecast 
emitting 
density 
\07
 
Approva
l 
emitting 
density 
\07
 
 
Wast
 
0.073  
 
0.073 
0.073 
0.073 
  
 
 
Page  34
 
 34
e 
water 
 Hg  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Cr     
 
        
 
Pb    
 
        
 
S 
   
 
        
COD 
   
 
        
oil     
 
        
waste 
gas 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 SO
\02
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Powd
er 
dust 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 soot 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Solid 
waste 
 0.0004  
 
0.0004 
0.0004 
0.0004 
  
 
 
 
lamp
black 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                            
 
                                                       east 
 
 
 
Page  35
 
 35
                             field 
                               
                                        the site of the project 
 
propagation  
inspection station 
                                                   
 
 
 
 
   TangGu 
                           
 
 
 
 
                                          Employee dormitory 
 
   Road 
                       300m        field 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    \1fattached figure\1fthe site of the project 
 
           Residence building 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    Disused breeding chicken farm 
Page  36
 
 36
Environmental Influence Report of the Construction Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name: Construction Project of Shoal Shellfish Seedlings 
Aquaculture 
Construction Unit: General Corporation of Aquatic Product Development and 
Aquaculture of Luannan County 
 
 
 
 
F. Date: 
August 
1, 
2003 
G.  
Authorized by the General Bureau of National Environment Protection 
 
 
Page  37
 
 37
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessment Unit:  Tangshasn Environment Protection Research Institute
  
Project Representative Director: Zhu Meng
 
Description of the assessment personnel 
 
Name 
 
Speciality 
Majored 
 
Title 
 
Certificate 
Number 
 
Responsibility 
 
 
Li Chun-yan 
 
Environment 
assessment 
 
Senior 
Engineer 
 
No. 
B12190005 
Report making 
 
 
Wei Fei 
 
Environment 
assessment 
 
Engineer 
 
 Report 
making 
 
 
Li Shu-min 
 
Environment 
assessment 
 
Vice-director 
 
 Report 
auditing 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
Basic Description of the Construction Project
 
 
Project Name 
 
Shoal Seashell Seedlings Aquiculture Construction 
Project 
 
 
Construction Unit 
 
General Corporation of Aquatic Product Development 
and Aquaculture of Luannan County 
 
 
Ficticious Person 
 
Li Bao-zhong 
 
Linkman 
 
Li Bao-
zhong 
 
 
Page  38
 
 38
Address 
 
Liuzhan Town, Luannan County, Hebei Province 
 
 
Telephone 
 
4509315 
13803329787
Fax 
 
4505315 Post 
Code 
 
063505
Construction Area 
 
Coastal Land of Liuzhan Town, Luannan County 
 
 
Examination&Approval  
Department of the 
Project Establishment 
 
 Approval 
Document 
Number 
 
 
Construction Type 
 
New Construction 
 
Industry 
Sort & 
Code 
Number 
 
Sea Water 
Aquiculture 
 
 
Total Area (m
2
) 
 
40000 Virescence 
Area (m
2)
   
 
400  
 
Total Investment 
(million yuan) 
 
19.92 Environment 
Protection 
investment 
(million 
yuan) 
 
1.6 Proportion 
 
8% 
Assessment Cost 
(million yuan) 
 
 Predicted 
Put-into-
Production Date 
 
March, 
2005 
 
 
Page  39
 
 39
Project Content and Scale: 
I. Construction Content and Scale 
The planned project is going to use the coastal land of Liuzhan Town, Luanna 
County, to construct an aquiculture base with annual breeding of 13 thousand 
kilogram of various shellfish seedlings, 10000 pieces per kg being the spec, and 
the total area covering 40000m2. The construction includes: (1)3 workshop 
buildings for breeding shoal shellfish seedlings, with 60000m3; (2)2.5m3/s of 
water pumping-up station; (3)35000m3 of water deposit and sterilization pool; (4) 
25000m3 of sand filtration pool; (5) 3500m3 of temperature control and water 
purification pool; (6) two wells of high and low temperature (7) 500mu of 
interval temporary breeding pool; (8) 500m2 for dormitory and working office; 
(9) for other production facilities. 
II. Construction Site 
The project construction is located in Luannan County situated in the north 
coast of Bohai gulf. It is near highways along the sea, 120 kilometers from 
Tianjin, 240 kilometers from Beijing and 90 kilometers from Qinhuandao. With 
the Jing-Tang express way across Luannan County, the construction site enjoys 
good transportation and convenient communication. It has a shallow-sea 
aquaculture area of more than 2 million mu, a shoal aquaculture area of 640 
thousand mu and a long coastal line of 90 kilometers. 
III.  Main Energy Resource Consumption  
4. 
Natural Gas: 75000m3 per year; 
2.  Total Electric Power: 1 million kw.h/a; 
IV. Main Raw and Supplement Material Consumption
 
Seashell origins, drugs and baits 
  
 
 
Page  40
 
 40
 
V.
 
Planned Work Force and Working Schedule 
50 persons as work force, 24 hours as working period with 3 shifts, and 150 days 
within a year. 
 
 
VI. Main Facilities and Equipments 
 
Purpose of facilities 
 
names quantity 
 
specifications 
 
 
transformer 1 
200KW 
 
 
generators 2 
75KW 
Electrical 
wires 
3000m  
Electric 
distribution 
room 
1  
Electric power supply 
 
cables 1000m 
 
Oxygen 
producing 
machine 
2 20 
x 
4M3 
boiler 
3 
2T one on and other 
in support 
Drainage 
tube 
5000m Different 
spec 
Control of water 
giving and draining  
 
Electric 
pump 
2 2m3/s 
Micro-filter 2 
1000m
3
 
Biological 
treatment 
facilities 
2 1000m
3
 
Ozone 
emitters 
2 1000m
3
 
Water quality control 
 
Ultraviolet 
radiation 
disinfection 
2 1000m
3
 
Floor air 
conditioner  
3  
Pollution 
absorbing 
pump in 
re
p
roduction 
1  
Water 
quality auto-
i
3  
Indoors temperature 
control equipment 
Ray control 
3 
 
Lab facilities 
Gas 
1 
 
Page  41
 
 41
Spectrometer
1  
Water pump 
machine 
2  
 
Cultivation  
 
Special lorry 
2 
Freeze, keep 
temperature 
Truck 1 
Nissan 
 
Transportation 
vehicles 
Watching 
boat 
1 80 
horse 
power 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Natural and social environmental conditions of the construction site 
Natural conditions (landform, physiognomy, geology, climate, weather, hydrology, vegetation, 
biology variety etc): 
1.  The geological location 
The breeding plant of the seashells is located in the Liuzan Town, Luannan County.  The 
geographical coordinate is east longitude 118
o
 37’ 9”, northern latitudes 39
o  
11’ 21” 
 
Any original pollution or chief environmental problems concerning the project: 
     
    This is a new constructed project for the purpose of aquaculture by using 
shoal land, thus no original pollution or environment problems exits. 
 
 
Page  42
 
 42
2.  Landform and physiognomy  
The construction site lies in the east bank of Shuo river, its geological structure is mud and it is flat. There 
are no industrial and residential areas nearby.  
3.  Geology  
The geology of this area belongs to a kind of muddy structure and the shallow sea is muddy 
and sandy while in the deep sea it is sandy. In the nearby sea the grade of the undersea coast is flat 
and the tide current is facile.  
4
.  Hydrology 
The tide of this area belongs to the irregular half-day kind. The different scale between tides is 
0.74 – 2.25 m. The average different scale between tides is 1.7m and the highest tide is 2.25m, the 
lowest one is 0.74m. The tide frequency is 9%.  
     5
.  Climate 
  (1) Air temperature  
The average yearly air temperature is 11.8 
o
C, the highest 36.3 
o
C, the lowest  – 14.8 
o
C. The 
average Jan air temperature is – 8.5 C to – 9.3 C. The highest average temperature in July is 27 
o
C~ 29
 o
C. 
(2) Rainfall  
The average yearly rainfall in this area is 621.5 mm, mainly in July and Aug. The rainfall in 
the two months reaches as much as 50% of the whole year. There is little rain in the spring and 
winter.  
(3) Wind 
The average yearly wind speed is 4.5~5m per second. The dominate wind is SW.  
(4) Fog 
There are about 21 foggy days on the average in a year and they are mostly in winter.  
(5) Freezing  
It often begins to freeze from middle Nov. or the beginning of Dec. and the ice melts in the 
beginning of Mar. The freezing period is about 3~3.5 months. The period between mid Dec. and 
Jan. is strongly frozen.  
6. Earthquake  
The earthquake intensity of this area is 8.  
 
 
Page  43
 
 43
 
Social environmental conditions ( social and economic structures, education, culture, cultural relic 
protection etc) : 
      Luannan county lies in the north of the Bohai Gulf and is a key fishing county in Hebei 
province. The total coast line is 80km. There are 21 fishing villages in the county and the fishing 
population is 50,000. The fishing workforce is 15,000. There are 1,294 fishing ships with the total 
power 45,000 HP.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of the quality of environment 
The environmental quality and its major problems of the construction site
 
(environmental 
air, surface water, ground water, sound environment, ecological environment etc)
 
 
1.Analysis of the atmosphere quality 
The average daily intensity of SO
2 
of this area in non- heating period is 0.010 ~ 0.039 mgs/ m
3
,  
and the pollution index is 0.09 ~ 0.26. The average daily value doesn't surpass the standard. ( the 
standard value is 0.15mg/m
3
). The average daily intensity of TSP is 0.25 ~ 0.72mg/m
3
, the 
pollution index is 0.85 ~ 2.4, its average daily value exceeds the standard value by 38%. In the 
heating period SO
2
 is 0.085 ~ 0.136mg/m
3
, the pollution index is 0.56 ~ 0.91, the average daily 
value doesn't exceed the standard value. TSP: 0.31-0.74mg/m
3
, the pollution index is 1.0 ~ 2.5, the 
average daily exceeding rate is 50%.  
2. Analysis of the seawater quality 
The nearby sea area: the sea area in this part is small. Physical and chemical index is: the 
color of the seawater is lightly green with its transparence 30 ~ 50cm, PH 7.8 ~ 8.6, DO 5.4 ~ 7.5 
mg/ L, CODmn 0.60 ~ 0.90 mg/ L, dissolved oxygen above 5mg/L, active phosphate 0.3 ~ 0.5 
Page  44
 
 44
µmolP/l, ammonia salt 0.14~ 0.4915µmoln/L, salt degree 20‰ ~ 30‰, phosphine no more than 
0.01mg/L.. 
The above indexes is conformed to the standards of the Second Standard of 
The Quality of 
Seawate
r( GB3097-1997).  
3. Analysis of noise environment 
  The noise condition in this area in daytime is 45.9~ 60.0 dB( A), at night 43.1~ 55.0 dB( 
A).  
The sound environment in this area is good enough.  
4. Analysis of the biological environment 
  The biological environment in this area is mainly for the breeding of seashells. There are   
large pieces of beaches. The natural vegetation includes bulrushes and red willows. The agrplants  
include rice and various kinds of vegetables. 
 
 
The main environment protection targets ( list the targets and its protection grades)
 
     
In this area there are no important cultural relics. Therefore the nearby sea and the sea breeding 
parts are listed as the main protection targets.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Criteria of Assessment 
 
Environmental Quality 
Criterion  
 
Environmental atmosphere quality criterion is 
conformed to the Grade Two Criterion( Fig.1) of 
the 
Environmental Atmosphere Quality Criterion
( 
GB3095 – 1996) 
(1) SO
2
: 0.15mg/m
3
    TPS: 0.30mg/m
3
 
Noise environmental quality should be conformed to 
the Second Class Criterion of 
City Noise Environment 
Criterion
( GB3096 – 93). 
Day: 60dB(A)       Night: 50 dB (A) 
(3) Sea water quality should be conformed to the Second 
Class Criterion of 
the Sea Water Quality Criterion
( 
GB3097 – 1997). 
 
 
Contamination 
Emission Criterion  
 
(2) Wastewater emission control regulations 
should be conformed to the Grade One 
Criterion of 
the Waste Water Emission 
Criterion
 (GB8979- 96). 
(2)  Noise emission should be conformed to the II Class of 
the Industrial Corporation Noise Criterion
( GB12348 – 
90). 
Day: 60 dB(A)   Night:50 dB(A)  
(3)  Polluted air emission should be conformed to the II 
p
hase criterion ( Fig. 1 – 4) of 
the
B
oiler Polluted Air 
Page  45
 
 45
Emission Criterion
( GB13271- 2001). 
Soot: 50mg/m3         SO2: 100mg/m3   
Smoke: Grade One  
(4)  Effluvium emission criterion should be conformed to   
the new criterion of the Second Class (Fig. 1) of 
the 
Effluvium     Pollution Emission Criterion
( GB14554 – 
93).  
(5) Polluted soil should be conformed to 
the Agriculture 
Polluted Soil Control Regulations
( GB4284 – 84). 
 
Gross Control Criterion  
 
 This project is to breed seedlings in seawater. It pumps 
and drains water by electric power. Then it would be 
deposited, filtrated and biologically cleansed. The 
seawater can be recycled. The boiler uses natural gas, a 
kind of clean fuel. 
 
 
 
Engineering Analysis of the construction Project 
Technical process 
 
 
Boiler steaming  
                                   
\01;
 
water pumping
\01:
water storage 
\01:
 sand filtering 
\01:
temperature control 
\01:
 
breeding pool 
\01:
 
circulation pool
\01:
 
micro-filtering 
\01:
living organism filtering 
\01:
 
ozone disinfection 
\01:
 breeding pool 
 
 
 
Main Pollution process: 
 
1.waste water 
The project adopts biological treatment of water in the shellfish breeding, and uses 
sea water by circulation. 
 
5. Noise 
The noise is mainly produced from the various pumps when the pumping station 
is working, with 90 ~110dB (A). 
 
6. Polluted 
air 
The project uses clean energy source—natural gas as fuel provided by Jidong Old 
Fields. The annual quantity used is 75 thousand m
3, 
producing a small amount of 
smoke. During ozone disinfection, no iffluvium is emitted. 
 
7. Mug 
During the biological treatment of water, the project produces a small amount of 
mud. 
Page  46
 
 46
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main source of pollutants and its predicted emission 
 
 
 
Emission 
source 
(with serial) 
Name  
 
Consistency 
and 
production 
Before 
processing  
 
Consistency 
and 
production 
After 
processing  
 
 
Air pollutant  
 
Boiler  
 
Technological 
process  
 
 
 
H2S 
NH3 
 
 
 
0.06mg/m3 
1.5mg/m3 
(Freely) 
 
 
 
0.06mg/m3 
1.5mg/m3 
(Freely) 
 
 
Water 
pollutant  
 
 
 
 
  
 
Solid waste 
 
Biological  
process 
 
 
Polluted mud 
 
  
Noise 
 
The noise in the project mainly comes from the pumps and 
other concerning equipments at the pumping station. The 
source of the noise is graded 90 – 110 Db( A).  
 
 
 
Others 
 
 
 
 
Conten
t
yp
e 
Page  47
 
 47
The main influences on the environment 
   
This project is to breed shellfishes on the sands beside water, which has no 
influence to the environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of Environment Influence 
 
Brief Analysis of Environment Influence During Construction
 
1. Influence of dust during construction 
(1) the project construction, digging, heaping, back filling and cleaning of earth 
will cause dust. (2) Various vehicles during the construction will cause dust. 
(3)The heaping and cleaning up of garbage will cause dust. 
2.  Influence of noise during construction 
Noise during the construction mainly comes from various machine and vehicles, 
such as bulldozers and grabs as well as cement mixer etc during preliminary 
period. 
3. Influence to vegetation and transportation during construction 
The construction is carries on in the coastal land, so there will be almost no 
influence to vegetation or transportation. 
4.Environment protection measures during construction 
(1) About dust: Covers or covering agent should be used while digging and 
heaping earth or piling materials. 
(2) About noise: The construction will be carried on far-reached shoal land 
during autumn and winter, and there are no residents nearby, so noise influence to 
surroundings should be comparatively small. 
(3) About concrete wastes: mainly referring to non-back filling earths and other 
construction garbage. Under strict administration, all the non-back filling earths and 
other construction garbage should be timely cleaned up and moved to the restricted 
area or used to fill pits or for the repairing of roads. Any lumbering and leaving about 
are strictly prohibited.  
Noise and the influence to atmosphere will disappear with the construction 
coming to the end. 
 
 
Analysis of the environment influence during the running of the 
project: 
 
1.  Waste water:  
This project of cultivating shellfish stirp adopts the biological and qualified-water 
processing techniques. It can recycle water and doesn' t emit the wastewater into the 
environment. 
2. Noise: 
Page  48
 
 48
The noise in the project mainly comes from the pumps and other concerning 
equipments at the water pumping station. The source noise grade is 90 – 110 dB( A). 
Cushions are used in the pumps with to reduce vibration, and muffles used in wind 
pipes to decrease the emission of noise. 
3. Polluted air 
    The boiler used in this project is provided by Jidong Oil Field, which uses natural 
gas as energy source, producing little smog, having almost no influence to the 
atmosphere environment. Ozone emission will be conformed to the standard in Chart 
1(GB14554-93).  
4. Mud 
As the mud contains organic contents, which can be used as fertilizer to be 
synthetically used. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  49
 
 49
 
 
 
 
Planned prevention and treatment measures and anticipated effects 
 Resource 
 
 
Name of 
pollution 
 
Prevention  
Measures  
 
Anticipated 
effects 
 
 
Air pollution 
 
Boiler  
 
Treatment of 
technological 
process 
 
 
 
H2S 
NH3 
 
Use natural 
gas 
 
 
 
In conformity 
with the new 
criterion of 
the Second 
Class (Fig. 1) 
of 
the 
Effluvium     
Pollution 
Emission 
Criterion
 
(GB14554 – 
93).  
 
Water 
pollution 
  
 
 
Solid waste 
Biology 
process 
Polluted soil  
 
  
Noise 
The pump station will produce noises at the grade of 
90~110dB(A). In order to reduce noises, it adopts these 
methods of adding the damping underlay to the pumps and 
installing silencers. 
Others  
 
 
The methods of the environment protection and the anticipated effect 
 
 
 
 
None  
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion and suggestions: 
Conclusion  
1. Industrial Policies 
Accordin
g
 to the 
p
olicies issued b
y
 National A
g
riculture De
p
artment, 
Conte
t
yp
e 
Page  50
 
 50
“steering the policies correctly, quickening the industrial construct 
change, and strictly controlling the intension of fishing, so as to enhance 
the fishery resources and environment protection”, Luannan County, in 
consideration of the local situation, established a steering policies in 
fishery industry, that is,  “changing fishing and catching into breeding”.  
This project , making use of the unique aquaculture resource, has 
established industrized aquaculture production system. Therefore, it has 
set a foundation for a continuous development of aquaculture in Luannan 
County, which is confirmed to the industrial policies. 
2.  Choice of the Construction Sites  
The planned project construction is located in Liuzan Town of Luannan 
County, with over 2million mu of shallow sea aquaculture area, a shoal 
aquaculture area of 640 thousand mu and a long coastal line of 90 
kilometers. It is near highways along the sea, 120 kilometers from 
Tianjin, 240 kilometers from Beijing and 90 kilometers from Qinhuandao. 
With the Jing-Tang express way across Luannan County, the construction 
site enjoys good transportation and convenient communication.  
3.  The environment Analyses during the period of processes  
1).  Waste water:  
This project of cultivating shellfish stirp adopts the biological and 
qualified-water processing techniques. It can recycle water and doesn' t emit 
the wastewater into the environment. 
2). Noise: 
The noise in the project mainly comes from the pumps and other 
concerning equipments at the water pumping station. The source noise grade 
is 90 – 110 dB( A). Cushions are used in the pumps with to reduce vibration, 
and muffles used in wind pipes to decrease the emission of noise. 
3). polluted air 
    The boiler used in this project is provided by Jidong Oil Field, which uses 
natural gas as energy source, producing little smog, having almost no 
influence to the atmosphere environment. Ozone emission will be conformed 
to the standard in Chart 1(GB14554-93).  
4. mud 
As the mud contains organic contents, which can be used as fertilizer to 
be synthetically used. 
In short, the project is feasible concerning the environment protection 
Suggestions: 
1)  Enhance the administration and maintenance of the water quality 
control system during the project running. 
2)  Regularly monitor the consistency of  H
2
S, NH
3
 in stench at water 
quality control system pumping station. 
Page  51
 
 51
 
Preliminary Examination Opinion:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                         
 Seal 
Sign:
                                                 
Date:
 
 
Examination Opinion From the Junior Environmental 
Protection Department: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
 Seal 
Sign:
                                                 
Date:
 
 
 
 
 
Examination and Approval Opinion: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  52
 
 52
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       
 Seal 
Sign:
                                                 
Date:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  53
 
 53
  
Environmental Inspection and Assessment 
 
Consigned by the General Corporation of Aquatic Product Development and Aquiculture of 
Luannan County, the Lunnan Environmental Inspection Station has made a spot inspection on 
scheduled water quality and the breeding condition of the shellfish and jellyfish breeding area on 
July, 2003.  
The conclusions are as follows: 
I. 
By sampling examination, the seawater level of this area is fully in accordance with 
the standards of seawater breeding foods of non-social effects of pollution, which is 
regulated by Department of Agriculture, People’s Republic of China. 
II. 
The distance between seedling breeding area and sea area is 0.5 kilometers, 
channels which water comes in are wide and flowing, and the source is ensured. 
III. 
There is no pollution outside the residential or industrial area from within a 3-
kilometer radius. 
IV. 
Seedling breeding is engaged in ponds indoor, which is a closely inside circulation 
and there is no self-pollution during the time of production. 
V. 
The construction area is near to two big salt fields--- Daqing River and Nanpu, 
which salt animalcule and its eggs are abundant, and it can provide large amount of 
natural bait for breeding young jellyfish. 
VI. 
The construction area is close to Jidong oil field, as a result, it is suggested that the 
sluice pool should be broadened to reserve water source in case of oil transportation 
pipe leaking. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Inspection Station of Luannan County 
 
 
 
July, 2003 
Page  54
 
 54
Inspection Report 
(Seawater) Environment Inspection  Serial (2003-09) 
 
 
 
 
Inspection Unit
          
Environment Inspection Station of Luannan County 
 
 
Inspected Unit    
General Corporation of Aquatic Product    Development 
and Aquiculture of Luannan County
      
 
 
 
 
Environment Inspection Station of Luannan 
County (Seal) 
Issue Date    July, 2003 
Page  55
 
 55
Sample Test of Water Quality in Factorial Social-
Pollution-Free Aquatic Breeding 
 
Testing Items 
Testing Methods 
Testing Results 
1\1fcolor, smell, sapor 
Colorimetry; sense of feeling 
No strange smell or 
color 
2\1fColiform 
Fermentation 
298 per L 
3\1fFeces and Intestine Bacteria 
Fermentation 
80 per L 
4\1fmercury Low-temperature 
atom 
absorbing 
spectrophotometry 
0.0002 mg/L 
5\1fcadmium Dithizone 
spectrophotometry 
 
0.0005mg/L 
6\1flead Dithizone 
spectrophotometry 
 
0.005mg/L 
7\1fhexad chromium     
Diphenylcarbazide 
pectrophtometry 
0.002mg/L 
8\1fall chromium 
Diphenylcarbazide 
pectrophtometry 
0.002mg/L 
9\1farsenic Silver 
diethyl 
dithiocarbamate 
pectrophtometry 
0.0035mg/L 
10\1fcopper 
Sodium ammonium diethyl 
dithiocarbamate  
0.005mg/L 
11\1fzinc Dithizone 
spectrophotometry 
 
0.0025mg/L 
12\1fSelenium Fluorescence 
spectrophotometry 
 
0.00003mg/L 
13\1fcyanide Isonicotinacid-soduim 
farmate 
diethylamino-disulfingl 
spectrophotometry 
0.002mg/L 
14\1fvolatilizing hydroxybenzene 
Distilled 4-aminophenazone 
spectrophotometry 
0.001mg/L 
15\1fpetroleum  
Ultraviolet spectrophotometry  
0.025mg/L 
16\1fbenzene hexachloride (BHC) 
Gas-chromatography 
0.0000005 
17\1fdichlorodiphenyltrichoroethane 
(DDT) 
Gas-chromatography 0.0000029 
18\1fmalathion  
Gas-chromatography 
0.00001 
19\1fparathion-methyl Gas-chromatography 0.000002 
20\1fRogor Gas-chromatography 
0.00028 
21\1fpolychlorinated Gas-chromatography 
0.000005 
 
Page  56
 
 56
Testing Time: July 29, 2003                                          Sample Source: Gathered 
Monitor person: Cui Jiangli, Fan Yuting, Shi Suyan    Auditor: Zhang Yutian 
Monitor Principal: Zhang Yutian                                   Technology Principal: Yao Xiuhhuan 
 
 
Page  57
 
 57
 
 
 
 
 
Penglai, Yantai, Shandong Province 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Penglai Coastal Belt Administration Center 
 
Penglai Jinglu Fishery Company, Ltd. [High value fish processing] 
 
Penglai Beiguo Town Industry Comprehensive Effluent Treatment Project 
 
Penglai Chaoshui Chaoshui Town Comprehensive Effluent Treatment Project
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  58
 
 58
Report about the Influence of Construction Items on Environment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Project: Penglai Coastal Belt Administration Center 
Undertaker: (seal) Penglai Ocean and Fishery Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report Making: February 11, 2004 
Produced by: National Bureau of Environmental Protection 
 
 
Edition Explanation to 
Report about the Influence of Construction Items on 
Environmen
t
 
 
Report about the Influence of Construction Items on Environment
 is edited by qualified 
units, which are engaged in evaluating environment influence. 
1. Item name— the given name when the project is reported for approval, it should be no 
more than 30 Chinese characters (two English word sections is as one Chinese 
character).  
2. Construction site— the detailed address of the project, the beginning and ending spots 
of the highway and railway should also be marked if necessary. 
3. Trade classification— to fill according to national standard. 
4. Total investment— the total investment amount of the project. 
Page  59
 
 59
5. Major targets of environment protection— in a certain range surrounding the project, 
the concentrated residential area, schools, hospitals, preserved cultural relics, places of 
interest, water sources and ecological sensitive spots should be noted as the protected 
targets, and their characters, scales and distances from the project border should also be 
noted as clearly as possible. 
6. Conclusion and suggestion— to reach the analysis conclusion about the clean 
production, qualified discharge and general control, to make sure of the effectiveness of 
antipollution measures, to explain the influence that this project has upon environment, to 
reach a definite conclusion about the environmental feasibility of the project and to put 
forward other suggestions to reduce the influence on environment. 
7. Preliminary opinion— the trade responsible institution fills in the reply opinion, if there 
is no responsible institution, it can be blank. 
8. Opinion of examination and approval— it should be answered by administrative 
responsible institution of environmental protection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f1/3\1f 
 
 
 
Evaluation Unit: Yantai Scientific Research Institute of 
Environmental Protection
 (seal) 
Principal of the Project: Chen Chang’an 
 
Page  60
 
 60
 
Information of Evaluators 
Name Profession 
 
Technical 
title 
Post certificate 
number 
Responsibility  
Chen 
Chang’an 
Scientific 
research of 
environmental 
evaluation 
Engineer 
Environment evaluation 
post No. B2419007  
 
Qu Shaofei 
Scientific 
research of 
environmental 
evaluation
 
Engineer
 
Environment evaluation 
post No. B24190010
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
Basic Information of the Project 
 
Project name 
Penglai Coastal Belt Administrative Center 
Undertaker 
Penglai Ocean and Fishery Bureau  
Legal 
representative 
Wang Jianwei 
Person to 
contact 
Mr. Zhou  
Communicati
on address 
Gangli village, Beigou town Penglai 
Tel 
5604258 
Fax  
5652766 
P. C.  
265600 
Construction 
site  
Gangli village, Beigou town Penglai 
Authorized by 
Penglai Development & 
Planning Bureau 
Authorization 
No. 
Peng Reply No. [2002] 68 
Construction 
character 
Newly built
 ¥
repair and 
enlarge
\01‘
technical 
modification 
Trade 
classification 
and code 
 
Occupied 
area (m
2
) 
20000 
Plantation 
area (m
2
) 
8000 
Total 
investment 
(RMB 10,000) 
1312 
Investment in 
environmental 
protection 
(RMB 10,000)
 
Ratio of 
investment in 
environmental 
protection/ 
total 
investment  
 
Page  61
 
 61
 Capital 
needed 
according to 
evaluation\1fR
MB 10,000\1f 
 
Expected date of 
operation 
 
Content and Scale of the Project 
     
Penglai is gifted with superior coastal natural conditions and rich fishing resources, 
it is a good place to develop ocean fishery. The exploitation of coastal fishing 
resources has become an important factor in developing fishery economy, but at the 
same time, brought new problems: some offshore commercial fishing resources are 
shrinking, stringent monitoring and protecting measures should be urgently adopted; 
pollution is threatening some sea areas; exploitation is exhausting the resources in 
some parts of the sea. The present situation is that we are short of facilities, 
equipment and personnel to monitor and manage dishing resources and ocean 
environment, we are struggling to raise the public’s awareness of protecting fishing 
resources and ocean environment to ensure the rational exploitation of resources. 
Regarding this, Penglai has decided to set up coastal belt administrative center to 
provide better service for the sustainable development of local and surrounding 
offshore resources. 
   1. Work of the project: it includes three parts, one is monitoring and management of 
fishing resources, second is monitoring and management of ocean environment, the 
third is personnel training and technology communication. 
   2. Water consumed by the project: it includes three parts, one is staff’s daily life 
consumption, the quantity is 1,000m
3
/year; second is dining hall consumption, the 
quantity is 500m
3
/year; the third is lab consumption, the quantity is 100m
3
/year. 
   3. Heat supply of the project: heat will be supplied by Beigou heat and power plant 
and no boiler will be built.  
 
Page  62
 
 62
 
  
Original pollution that is related to this project and the major environmental problems:
There is no
. 
 
 
Page  63
 
 63
Introduction to the Natural and Social Environment of the Project  
 
Natural Environment (landscape, ground feature, geology, climate, meteorology, 
hydrology, vegetation, diversity of biology, etc.)  
Inside Penglai, the ground feature is low mountains and hills, the general terrain is 
high south and low north. Penglai borders Yellow Sea and Bohai in the north. The 
project site is comparatively flat and it is on typical alluvial accumulative ground unit. 
The geology nearby the factory, influenced by the fluctuation of bed rocks, the 
formation structures change greatly, it has remarkable character of marine and land 
mixed deposit, made up of mild clay, gravel and bed rock. The bed rocks are mainly 
basalt and scattered glimmerite, granite, etc.  
It has distinct seasons, with the annual average temperature of 11.9\1f. The hottest 
month is July, with the average temperature of 25.7\1f, the coldest month is January, 
with the average temperature of -3.9\1f.  
The annual average rainfall is 620mm, mainly concentrated in July and August, 
which takes up 47% of the whole year’s rainfall. The maximum daily rainfall is 
208.1mm(on August 25, 1982), the largest rainfall lasted nine days(in July, 1970), with 
the accumulated rainfall of 160.9mm. 
Hydrology: the tide is regular semidiurnal tide in Penglai Port. The usual wave 
direction is NNE, with the frequency of 7.4%, the second usual wave direction is NE, 
ENE and NW, with the respective frequency of 3.9%, 3.2% and 3.3%, strong wave 
direction is NNE, with the frequency of 5.4%, the biggest wave height is 4.1m. The 
ocean current is irregular semidiurnal tidal flow. The motion style of tidal current is 
mainly reciprocating current and its main current direction is NE-SW. The highest west 
current speed is 0.55m/s out of the port voyage, with the direction of 214°, the highest 
eastern current speed is 0.45m/s, with the direction of 59°. 
 
Page  64
 
 64
 
Social Environment (structure of social economy, education, preservation of cultural 
relics, etc.)  
The project is located in Gangli Village, Beigou Town Penglai. In 2002, the GNP of 
this town reached RMB13million, the national income reached RMB 19.96million, with 
the average increase of 15.6%, the gross output value of industry and agriculture 
reached RMB 18.22million, with the average increase of 9.58%, of which, the gross 
output value of industry increased 16.8%.  
There are no protected cultural relics inside the project area. 
 
 
 
  
Environment Quality State 
 
Environment quality state of the project site and main environmental problems 
(atmospheric environment, ground water, underground water, sound environment, 
ecological environment, etc.)  
According to the statistics in 2003 from Penglai Environment Monitoring Station, the 
environment quality in this area is as follows:  
Atmospheric environment: in this area, the hour index of SO
2
 density varies from 
0.006 to 0.053mg/Nm
3
, the hour index of NO
2
 density varies from 0.005 to 
0.066mg/Nm
3
, the average daily index of TSP density varies from 0.032 to 
0.270mg/Nm
3
. The atmosphere in this area satisfies the second level of the GB3097-
1996 
Standards for Environmental Air Quality.
 
    Sound environment: noise monitoring index (Leq) is 50.8dB(A) in daylight and 
43.6dB(A) at night, which conforms to second level of GB3096-93 
Standards for 
Environmental Noise in Cities and Towns.
 
    Offshore area: in 2003, at the monitoring spot in Penglai Port, the monitor result was 
as follows: PH is 8.03, DO is 7.72mg/l, COD
Mn
 is 2.27mg/l, inorganic phosphorus is 
0.020mg/l, inorganic nitrogen is 0.134mg/l, oil category is 0.025mg/l, which all conform 
to the four levels of GB3097-1997 
Standards for Sea Water Quality.
Outside the Port, at 
Page  65
 
 65
the monitoring spots inside the aquatic farm, the result was as follows: PH is 8.13, DO 
is 7.74mg/l, COD
Mn
 is 2.09mg/l, inorganic phosphorus is 0.010mg/l, inorganic nitrogen 
is 0.132mg/l, oil category is 0.025mg/l, which all satisfies the second level ofGB3097-
1997
 Standards for Sea Water Quality.
 
 
Major Environmental Protection Targets (list the items and their protection grades) 
There are no important cultural relics inside the evaluated area, so the aquatic farm 
and nearby residential areas will be treated as environmental sensitive spots. The water 
in aquatic farm should satisfy the second of
 Standards for Sea Water Quality
, sound 
environment should satisfy the second level of
 Standards for Environmental Noise in 
Cities and Towns.
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  66
 
 66
Evaluation Standards 
Standards for 
Environment 
Quality  
Second level of GB3095—1996 
Standards for Environmental Air 
Quality. 
Second level of GB3096-93 
Standards for Environmental Noise in 
Cities and Towns
 
Second level of GB3097-1997 
Standards for Sea Water Quality
 
Standards for 
Pollutant 
Discharge  
 
 
 
Second level of GB8978-1996 
Standards for Sewage Comprehensive 
Discharge 
 
General 
Control Index 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  67
 
 67
 
 
Construction Items Analysis 
 
Introduction to Technology Process (see maps) 
 
Through the monitoring and management of fishing resources and ocean 
environment and through technical training, this project is to carry out monitor, 
investigation and evaluation over fishing resources along the coast and ocean 
environment, to plan in scientific way the exploitation of panland and shallow sea 
and development of offshore   fishing. At the same time, this project will provide 
training to law-enforcement personnel and fishermen to raise completely the 
supervision team’s quality, strengthen the fishermen’ awareness of resource and 
environmental protection to make sure of the sustainable development of offshore 
resources. 
 
 
Page  68
 
 68
Major Pollution Procedures 
1. Life sewage produced by ding hall is 500m
3
/year and the main pollutants are COD, 
animal and plant oil. 
2. Life sewage produced by staff is 1,000 m
3
/year and the main pollutant is COD. 
3. Sewage produced by lab is 100 m
3
/year, and the main pollutants are COD, waste 
acid and alkali. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Production of Major Pollutants and Planned Discharge 
Page  69
 
 69
Content 
 
Type 
Discharge 
source (No.) 
Name of 
Pollutant 
Density and quantity 
before disposal (unit) 
Processed density and 
quantity (unit) 
Atmosph
eric 
pollutant 
No 
No No 
No 
Water 
pollutant 
1. From dining 
hall 
2. From dorms 
3. From labs 
1. COD, 
animal and 
plant oil 
2. COD 
3. Waste 
acid and 
alkali 
1. 600mg/l  0.3t/y 
50mg/l  0.025t/y 
2. 350mg/l  0.35t/y 
3. A little 
1. 600mg/l  0.3t/y 
50mg/l  0.025t/y 
2. 350mg/l  0.35t/y 
3. A little 
Solid 
pollutant
Staff’ daily 
life 
Life rubbish
50tons/year 
50tons/year 
Noise No 
Others 
No 
Major Ecological Influence  
The project site was original farmland, with good ecological environment. During the 
construction of this project, part ecological environment will be destroyed. When this 
project completes, the plantation area is 40%, which can effectively recover some 
environment. 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of Environment Influence 
Page  70
 
 70
 
H. Environment Influence in Construction Period 
This project covers an area of 20,000m
2
, with the construction area of 3,500m
2
. 
The construction scale is small, the powder dust and noise, produced in the 
construction will have a certain effect on surroundings. It is suggested that 
undertaker should strictly obey to the construction system, close off the construction 
site and spray water regularly to reduce powder dust. It is forbidden to work at night 
to make sure that the environment pollution will be reduced to the lowest degree.
 
 
Analysis of Environment Influence in Operation Period 
The discharged sewage of the project mainly come from dining hall and staff’ life. 
Sewage from dining hall is 500m
3
/year and the main pollutant is COD, with the 
density of 600mg/l, quantity of 0.3ton/year and animal and plant oil, with the density 
of 50mg/l, quantity of 0.025ton/year. Sewage from staff’ life is 1,000m
3
/year and the 
main pollutant is COD, with the density of 350mg/l and quantity of 0.35ton/year. 
The sewage from life and dining hall and a little lab effluent, discharged by the 
project, will enter through pipes into Beigou sewage processing plant and will be 
released after disposal. So it will not produce pollution to surrounding environment. 
 
 
 
 
Planned Treatment Measures and Expected Treatment Result
  
Page  71
 
 71
 
content
Type  
Discharge 
source (No.) 
Name of 
Pollutant 
Treatment measures 
Expected 
treatment result 
Atmospheri
c pollutant 
No  
No
 
No
 
No
 
Water 
pollutant 
1. From 
dining hall 
2. From 
dorms 
3. From labs 
1. COD, animal 
and plant oil 
2. COD 
3. Waste acid 
and alkali 
Sent to Beigou sewage 
processing plant through 
pipes for disposal 
Discharge 
according to 
standard 
Solid 
pollutant 
Staff’ daily life 
Life rubbish
Sent to be disposed in 
rubbish processing plant
  
Noise 
No 
Others No 
 
 
Ecological Protection Measures and Expected Result  
The project site was original farmland, with good ecological environment. During the 
construction of this project, part ecological environment will be destroyed. When this 
project completes, the plantation area is 40%, which can effectively recover some 
environment
  
 
 
 
Page  72
 
 72
Conclusion and Suggestion 
I. Conclusion 
Environment influence of the project includes two periods: construction period and 
operation period.  
1. Construction period 
This project covers an area of 20,000m
2
, with the construction area of 3,500m
2
. The 
construction scale is small, the powder dust and noise, produced in the construction 
will have a certain effect on surroundings. It is suggested that undertaker should 
strictly obey to the construction system, close off the construction site and spray water 
regularly to reduce powder dust. It is forbidden to work at night to make sure that the 
environment pollution will be reduced to the lowest degree 
2. Operation period 
The discharged sewage of the project mainly come from dining hall and staff’ life. 
Sewage from dining hall is 500m
3
/year and the main pollutant is COD, with the 
density of 600mg/l, quantity of 0.3ton/year and animal and plant oil, with the density of 
50mg/l, quantity of 0.025ton/year. Sewage from staff’ life is 1,000m
3
/year and the 
main pollutant is COD, with the density of 350mg/l and quantity of 0.35ton/year. 
The sewage from life and dining hall and a little lab effluent, discharged by the 
project, will enter through pipes into Beigou sewage processing plant and will be 
released after disposal. So it will not produce pollution to surrounding environment. 
The evaluation result is that from environmental protection angle, this project is 
feasible. 
  
Page  73
 
 73
 
 
 
 
 
  
Preliminary Opinion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                          Official Seal 
Person handling:                           Time 
 
Page  74
 
 74
 
Examination opinion from next level administrative responsible institution of 
environmental protection:  
 
 
 
Agree to transmit 
 
 
 
 
Official Seal
 
Person handling: Zhang Chunguang              Feb. 22, 2004
 
 
J.  Opinions of Examination and Approval  
1. Penglai Coastal Belt Administrative Center, built by Penglai Ocean and 
Fishery Bureau by loans from World Bank to strengthen the monitoring and 
management of fishing resources and ocean environment, has produced a little 
“three wastes” during its operation and has little influence on surroundings, 
so we agree to set up this center. 
2. The sewage from life, produced by the project, can be dispatched to the planned 
Beigou sewage processing plant for treatment.  
3. The validity of this examination and approval is 5 years. During this period, if there 
are great changes in production scale or project site, it should be separately report to 
environmental protection department for new examination and approval. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                             
Official Seal
 
Page  75
 
 75
 
Person handling: Guo Xintai                Feb. 23, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  76
 
 76
 
Opinions of Examination and Approva
l
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                
 Official Seal 
Person handling:                            Time
   
 
                 
 
 
 
 
Page  77
 
 77
Note 
\1f 
This report should be attached with the following appendix and figures: 
Appendix 1 document reporting for approval 
Appendix 2 other administrative documents that are related with environment 
evaluation 
Figure 1 geographical location map of the project (administrative division and water 
system should be shown, waste entrance and ground feature should be marked) 
Figure 2 layout of the project 
\1f 
If this report can’t explain the pollution and the influence that this project has on 
environment, specialized evaluation should be held. According to the characteristics 
of the project and local environment, the following one or two items can be chosen 
for specialized evaluation. 
1.  Specialized evaluation of atmospheric environment influence 
2.  Specialized evaluation of water environment influence 
3. Specialized evaluation of ecological influence 
4. Specialized evaluation of sound influence 
5.  Specialized evaluation of soil influence 
6.  Specialized evaluation of solid waste influence 
If not included in above specialized evaluations, it can be separately evaluated. 
The special evaluation can be carried out according to the requirements of 
Technical Guidance to Evaluation of Environment Influence.
 
 
Reprint by Environmental Protection Bureau of Shandong Province
 
 
Page  78
 
 78
Environmen Influence Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name:   Penglai jinglu packinghouse 
Construction units:
    
Penglai Jinglu Fishery CO.,LTD. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Draw up: 23/4/2003 
Draw up by:State Environmental Protection Administration Ion Of 
China 
 
Page  79
 
 79
 
K. Account for report 
This report is drawn up by the units who get the qualification and 
undertake the job of environmet evaluation
 
 
 
1.  name of the project—is the name which been confirmed,cannot excess 60 words 
 
2.  place of the construction—detailed address, calzada and railway must should be 
wrote where is the begining and where is th end 
 
 
3.  trade category--fill in according to the national standard 
 
 
4.  total investment—is the total investment of the project 
 
 
5.  the objective of environment protection—is the place, such sa 
uptown\1fschool\1fhospital\1fcultural relic\1f beauty spot\1friverhead and hypersensitive 
zoology point ,surround the project construction 
 
 
6. 
conclusion and suggestion—sum up the analyse of uncontaminative production\1fdrain 
sewage has been reached the standard \1ftotal constral.Make sure the step is 
useful.Explain the project can make how much pollution to the entironment.Draw 
up the clear conclusion that the project can work accroing to the standard .Give the 
suggestiong to shut down the pollution.
 
 
 
7.  prejudication ideas—filled by the dept. in charge  
 
 
8.  examine and approve ideas—the dept.who charge the entironment protection give 
the offical  
 
 
 
 
 
The situation of construction 
Project name 
Penglai Jinglu packinghouse 
Page  80
 
 80
Constrction 
units 
Penglai Jinglu Fishery CO.,LIT. 
Artificial 
person 
Wanghong Linkman 
 Haoshiqiang 
Communicatio
n address 
Economic Developing area Penglai Shandong Pro. 
Project confirm 
dept. 
Penglai Development Planning 
Bureau 
Confirm 
No. 
 
Construction 
porperty 
New Industry 
type No. 
Food process industry 
03130 
Bulit-up area 
(sq.m.) 
151645 Virescence 
area 
(sq.m.) 
54592 
Total 
investment 
(rmb) 
19706000
0 
environment 
investment 
2541600
Entironment 
investment/total 
investment  
1.29% 
Project contents and scal: 
Penglai Jinglu Fishery CO.,LIT.set up in 1990,the company stay in economic 
development area of Penglai,panning to build a new packinghouse 
   Project contents:packinghouse,built-up area 99966 sq.m.Therein packinghouse 
42000 sq.m.; Sewage treatment plant1110.25sq.m.;Cold storage 26000sq.m.;traning 
center \1fhostel\1fdinning room and others buliding 31386sq.m.. 
  This project can offer at best 4600 job 
  Mail meterial and energy cost: 
sleeve-fish:7500t/a 
tunny:1250t/a 
chub mackerel:3000t/a 
oyster:1000t/a 
scallop:1000t/a 
octopus:2000t/a 
spanish mackerel:3000t/a 
red fish :1000t/a 
electric:2800000kw./h 
water:720000 stere/a 
 
 
Inhere pulltion situation and main enrionment question(connceting with the project) 
1.  Sewage:Main sewage is from wash meterial and process water ,living 
sewage.Total sewage displlacement is about 2000 stere/d. Sewage contents 
COD:1500-2000 mg/l,SS:800mg/l. Factory wanna to use biology to make the 
sewage clean.Main emission concentration:COD:150M/L SS\1f150m/l .Total 
emission is COD108t/ss108t per year. 
2. 
West: Factory products 1000t wast per year 
3.  Noice pollution:This project make a little noice,and surround the factory doesn`t 
have impressionable noice point,can reach <industry corporation noice standard> 
Page  81
 
 81
Envrionment brief instruction(landform, physiognomy,geology,clime,weather, 
hydrography,vegetation, biology diversity etc.) 
     
This factory`s now construction project lies in shanghahi road of penglai 
economic development area ,north of 206 national highway. 
This area belongs to temperate zone,East Asia monsoon climate .Continental 
climate.Average temperature is 11.6 centigrade.Average rainfall is 628.7mm..Average 
humidity is 69.6% The main wind direction is S all over the year.Average wind speed 
is 4.5m/s. 
And its physiognomy is denudation hill.The land where wanna to bulit the factory 
used to be a farm. South is higher than north.From southeast to northwest,the land 
inclines.Neture level is between 18.33m to 15.01m.The most altitudinal difference 
is3.32m.The most intensity of earthquake is seven 
Social envrionment brife instruction:(economic configuration of 
society,education,culture,culture relic etc.) 
Penglai economic developing area lies to the east of penglai city,by the yellow 
sea,and it borders Nanwang town south,borders Magezhuang east,borders new port of 
penglai north.So the position can supply a very good developed transportation. 
In the area there are more than 30 industry company.Fishery and aquaculture are 
very flourishing.In the area,agriculture is mostly fruit tree. 
 
The situation of envrionment quality: 
  The project`s locus`s main envrionment qualty problem 
(air,water,groundwater,sound envrionment,biology envrionment etc.) 
  This project lies in the economic developing area .Depending on the report 
submitted by the envrionment measurement station,the air quality of this area is 
second level of the national air standard.The quality of groundwater is better,sound 
envrioment and biology envrioment is also better. 
The aim of main envrioment protection (list the list and level of protection) 
None but the village surround the factory. 
 
The village is the only protective aim. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The standard 
of the 
quality 
 
 
 
 
<City Area Envrionment Noice Srandard>(GB3096-93)2 type 
standard 
Page  82
 
 82
envrionment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contaminatio
n drainage 
srandard 
 
 
 
 
 
<Sewage Synthesis Drainage Standard>(gb8978-1996) first level 
standard 
 
 
 
<Industry Corporation Noice Standard>(GB12348-90) 2 type 
standard 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total 
quantity 
control 
standard 
 
 
 
 
 
This project drains contamination is COD (108T/A). 
 
 
 
The factory should apply for the total quantity quota. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main contamination production and intending drainage situation 
   content 
 
type 
Drainage 
headstream 
(serial number) 
Contamination 
name 
The consistency  of 
production and turnout 
before disposal  
Drainage 
consistency and 
drainage quantity 
 
 
Air contamination 
 
 
 
 
None 
 
 
None  
 
 
None  
 
 
None  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drainage quantity: 
Drainage quantity: 
720000m3/a 
Page  83
 
 83
Water 
contamination 
 
Washing and 
thawing working 
procedure 
CODcr 
SS 
720000m3/a 
 
SS:800mg/l,576t/a 
 
CODcr:150mg/l 
108t/a 
ss:150mg/l 
108t/a 
 
 
Solid 
contamination 
 
 
 
 
Process 
 
 
Offal  
 
 
1000t/a 
 
 
None 
 
 
Nosie  
 
 
Process noise . 
 
Else 
 
 
None  
Main biology evrionmet influence  
 
None  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Envrionment influence analyse 
Envrionment brief influence analyse during the construction: 
   Main influence is the noise and dust during the construction,and there is 
also so noise when the equipment is going to be set up.And it is supposed 
to adopt some steps to do not let the dust and noise out to let the influence 
down. 
Working influence analyse 
When the construction has been completed,the influence include the 
water envrionment and the noise envrionment. 
1.  water envrionment:The sewage of this project will be disposed depend 
on the standard of the national,and mail drainage consisitence is 
COD:150MG/L,SS:150MG/L,SS:150MG/L.Total drainage is 
COD108t,SS108t.Drainage quality is accord to the standard of 
<Sewage disposed standard>2 level standard 
2.  noise environment:This project makes low noise .Around the factory 
there is no noise hypersensitive point.So when the project has been 
finished,there will have a little influence to the environment. 
3.  Fh offal and others waste producted by this project will be used to 
make fishmeal.so it cannot pollute the environment. 
 
 
 
Main contamination process and drainage situation 
Page  84
 
 84
    content 
 
 
type 
Drainage 
headstream
 
Name of 
contamination 
Prevention and 
cure step 
Intending 
management 
effect 
Air 
contamination 
None None None 
 None 
 
Water 
contamination 
Washing and 
thawing 
working 
procendure etc. 
DODcr 
SS 
Biology 
dispose 
Drained when 
achieve the 
standar  
Solid 
contamination 
Process Offal 
 
Sell 
None 
 
Noise  
Noise is very low .It is can reach the standard 
Else  
None  
Zoology protection step and effect 
 
 None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Engineering analysis of the construction item 
1.  Brief description of squid flow: 
Material ice-out----Headed, eared, gutted----Clean----Peel off the skin with barker---Clean and 
dress----Grade and weigh----Cut----Frozen----Cut into piece----Grade and put in plate----Frozen---
-Grade again----Pack in plastic bag----Metal detection----Pack in carton box----Print production 
date----Refrigerate 
2.  Breaded oyster technological process as follows: 
Clean material----Spit sand----Shuck off the shell----Clean----X detection----Soak in ice----Grade 
and put in plates----Frozen----Put off the model----Sprinkle with flour----Singly frozen----X 
detection----Put into bag----Metal detection----Pack in carton box----Store 
Technological process as follows: 
Material----Clean----Impurity out----Grade----Clean----Season----Pack in plastic bag----Steam----
Cool----Frozen----Metal detection----Pack in carton box----Store 
Main infectant working procedure as follows: 
                                             Fine strainer 
                                    Pump1
\019
            
\01;
 
Page  85
 
 85
Waste water
\01:
Grille sedimentation pool
\01:
Water collection well
\01:
Hydrolyze acidification pool
\01:
 
                                                                
        Blast 
    
\01;
  Pump2   
\01;
 
Regulation pool
\01:
SBR
\01:
Drain 
                
\01;
 
        Mud concentration pool 
           Pump
\01;
 
           Mud drier bed 
                
\01;
 
          Move the mud 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion and suggestion 
We can reach the following conclusion through the above analysis of engineering and environment 
influence: 
1.  There’ll be powder dust and noise during the period of construction. So some measurement 
must be adopted to prevent dust and noise during construction. 
2.  Business period of item 
Water environment: The waste water will be treated. The drain water conforms to grade\1f standard 
of the document “Sewage drain standard” (GB8978-96) 
Noise environment: The noise in the factory can conform to the standard\1f of the document 
“Industrial enterprise noise standard” (GB12348-90). 
All the solid waste will be used to produce fish powder. So they can’t bring about influence to the 
environment. 
All the infectant resource can meet the requirement of the relevant rule and won’t produce 
pollution to the environment after the item completed. So it’s feasible from the point of the 
environment protection. 
Page  86
 
 86
In order to prevent environment pollution, the suggestion is raised as follows: 
The maintenance of waste water treatment facilities should be strengthened during daily running. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examination opinion: 
 
 
 
Clerk:                                         Company: 
Examination opinion issued by junior administration department of environment protection as 
follows: 
In this item, sea products are cleaned, ice-out, processed, frozen and then refrigerated. The waste 
water produced will be treated as follows: Waste water
\01:
Grille net—Regulation well—Oxygen 
pool—Oxygenlike pool-Sedimentation pool—Sand strainer pool—Drain into urban sewage pipe 
Waste dregs—Partial sale, partially processed fish powder. 
After careful investigation, we agree the item is forwarded to superior department. During the 
period of production and construction, the management rules should be obeyed to ensure the drain 
conforms to the standard. 
 
Page  87
 
 87
 
 
Clerk:                                    Company: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Examination opinion: 
\1fThe item is to process and refrigerated all kinds of sea products. The waste water produced has 
less influence to the environment after adopting some measurement. So the construction is agreed 
to proceed. 
\1f. The item should obey the relevant rules. All the drain should conform to the standard. 
\1f. Waste water produced should be treated properly. It may be drained directly to the urban drain 
pipe network and enter the urban sewage treatment field after treated properly according to the 
national standard. 
\1f. The fish guts produced should be treated properly. 
\1f. The item should be put into production after checked and accepted by the department of 
environment protection. 
\1f.  
 
 
 
Page  88
 
 88
 
 
 
Clerk:                                           Company: 
April 24
th
, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 
\1f. The report should attach the following documents and drawings: 
Attachment1:  Item approvement document 
Attachment2:  Other relevant administration management documents 
Attached drawing1: Geographical position drawing including administrative division, water 
system, waste collection position and topography and landforms, etc. 
Attached drawing2:  Plan arrangement drawing 
\1f. If the report can’t show the pollution and influence to the environment, special commence 
should be proceeded. According to the features of the item and local environment, the following 
one or two special commence should be proceeded. 
1.  Special commence about atmosphere environment influence 
2.  Special commence about water environment influence (including surface water and 
underground water)  
3.  Special commence about environment influence 
4.  Special commence about noise influence 
Page  89
 
 89
5.  Special commence about soil influence 
6.  Special commence about solid waste influence 
The commence not listed above should be proceeded individually. The special commence should 
be proceeded according to the rule of environment influence technology. 
                     Printed by environment protection bureau of Shandong province   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  90
 
 90
 
Construction Project Environment Influence Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name: Penglai Beigou Town Industry Comprehensive
 
Effluent Treatment Project
 
Construction Unit (seal): People's Government of Beigou Town
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compiling Date: September 26, 2003 
Made by General Bureau of National Environment Protection 
 
 
 
L. Compiling Explanation to the Environment Affected Report List of Construction 
Page  91
 
 91
Project 
Report List of Construction Project on Environment Effect is compiled by the units, which have 
estimation certificate on environment effect.. 
1.  Project name—the name of the project when it waits for approval, it should be no more than 
thirty Chinese words(two English phases is regarded as one Chinese word). 
2. Construction site --the detailed geographical location of the project, highways and railways 
should be pointed out the beginning and terminal. 
3. Trade type -- list according to national standard. 
4. Total investment ~ the amount of investment.  
5. Main environment protection target- the dense resident areas,schools, hospitals, protected relic, 
place of interest, water source and ecological smart area that are in certain scale surrounding the 
project 
should be marked in the aspect of protected targets, character, scale and distance from the project 
border. 
6. Conclusion and suggestion----the analysis conclusion about the clear production, standard 
discharge and amount control of the project should be given to make out the effectiveness of the 
anti-pollution measures, to explain the effect of the project on environment, thus to draw a definite 
conclusion on the environment feasibility of the project. Other suggestions about how to reduce 
the environment should also be given. 
7. Pre-exam suggestion-----replying suggestions filled in by career department in charge. If there is 
no department in charge, it cannot be filled in. 
8.Exam suggestion-----Examined by the environment protection administrative department in 
charge of examining the project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  92
 
 92
Construction Item Environment Influence Comment Qualification Certificate 
Unit Name: Yantai Environment Protection Science Research Office 
Commenting Organization: Appraisal Office 
Certificate grade: 2aa Grade 
Certificate No.: Guo Huan Ping Zheng YI Zi No. 2419 
Business scope: Earth surface water, water underground, gas, sound and solid waste, ecology, 
water and earth holding, social economy, human body health***** Chemistry industry, petroleum 
Chemistry and medicine; Transportation, mining; light industry, textile, chemical fiber; 
Machinery, Electronics; 
Metallurgy and pressing & extending process*****. 
Valid Date: From January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004 
The State Environment Protection Bureau 
December 25, 199 
 
 
Appraisal unit:Yantai Science Institute of  Environment Protection(seal)
 
Person in charge:  Zhou Dexing '
 
 
 
Estimation Staff 
Name  
Major  
Title  
Certificate No. 
Responsibility 
Zhou Dexing 
Scientific study 
And 
environment 
estimation 
Senior engineer 
Lu-05281 
 
Liu Yanqing 
Scientific study 
And 
environment 
estimation 
Engineer Lu-05336  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic Introduction about the Construction Project 
Page  93
 
 93
 
Project name 
Penglai Beigou Town Industry Comprehensive Effluent Treatment 
Project 
Construction 
unit 
People’s Government of Beigou Town 
Legal 
representative 
Wang Yi 
Contact 
You 
Xiqiang 
Address Penglai, 
Shandong 
Province 
Tel 5912457 
Fax 
5912657 
P.C 
265601 
Construction site 
North of Gangli Village of Beigou Town, Penglai 
Examination and 
approval 
department 
 Approval 
code 
 
Construction 
character 
Newly built 
Trade type 
and code 
Public facility service 
industry 11750 
Occupied 
area(\1f) 
9900 Plantation 
area(\1f) 
3500 
Total 
investment(RMB 
10,000) 
2091.78 Investment 
in 
environment 
protection 
(RMB10,000)
included 
2019.78 Proportion 
of 
environment 
protection 
investment 
to total 
investment 
100% 
Estimation cost 
(RMB10,000) 
 
Planed date for practice 
In December 2003 
Page  94
 
 94
Project Content and Scale 
                                                 , 
     1. Construction scale: the planed scale of comprehensive sewage disposal project is 10,000m3'/d, 
including the industrial sewage of 9,000m3'/d, living sewage of 1,000m3'/d. The general changing index is 
1.3, the largest volume of sewage in an hour is 542m3'/h. 
     2. Technique choice: touch oxidation technique (see page 9) 
     3. Construction Content 
     Inside the sewage disposal plant, the buildings and structures are divided into four functional areas 
according to their functions. 
     Area before the factory: consists of comprehensive office building, lab and central control area 
     Effluent Treatment Area: consists of water input pump room, grill house, touch oxidation basin, blower 
house, second deposit basin, etc. 
Sludge Treatment Area: consists of sludge, condensation basin and sludge de-hydration machine house, 
etc. There is a side door for transportation and it is strictly isolated with area before the factory. 
     Water Recycling Area: consists of elevating pump house, chloride adding room, reservoir, chloride 
adding touch basin, etc. Among them, the water supply pump house, fire fighting pump house and elevating 
pump house are set up together. The chloride adding room is far away from the area before factory. 
     4. Road arrangement: the main roads inside the p!ant are connected with the outside roads in two Places, 
one is in the east of the plant, which is the main passage for the plant, the other is arranged in the west of 
the plant, mainly for the transport of grille rubbish and dehydration mud. 
     5. Main pipe arrangement: the diameter of the sewage pipe into the plant is ~ 500mm. It connects with 
the adjusting basin. The sewage disposal structures inside the plant are all connected with each other by cast 
iron pipe. In case of the accident, the main disposal structures are all equipped with transcendental pipes. 
Inside the plant, rain pipe and sewage pipe are laid for the collection and discharge of rain, living or 
production sewage. Rain inside the plant is discharge to the outside 
directly. 
     6. Electricity Supply: two 10KV are transported from the substation, one is for work and the other is for 
reserve. Under normal conditions, 1 # supplies electricity, otherwise the spare electricity source will be put 
into use. The electricity volume of the plant is 75,000Kwh/a (real electrical energy) and the lost electrical 
energy is 32,000Kwh/a. 
     7. Heat Supply: oil hot water boiler of WNS-0.7/0.4/95/70 is used for the winter heating consumption of 
diesel oil is 100 tons. 
8. Production organization and staff number: three-shift working system is practiced and the annual 
working days are 365. The fixed staff is 20 persons, including 16 operation staff, 2 subsidiary production 
staff and 2 management technique. 
The original pollution related with the project and the main environment pollution:  
  
None. 
Page  95
 
 95
Briefings on natural and social environment of the area where the project locates. 
 
Natural environment (terrain, landform, geological condition, climate, metrology, hydrology, 
 vegetation, biodiversity and so on) 
    1. Geological position 
The effluent treatment project is located in beigou Town, the economically strong town 
of Penglai City, which is about 10Km east of Penglai down town area, 40Km west of Longkou 
city and faces the sea on its north. Its coordinate is 120o34,---- 121o9, east longitude and 
17o46'----38o26'. 
     2. Terrain and Landform 
     The geological condition of the area belongs to the shield of Eastern Shandong and the 
northeastern section of the rising part of Jiaodong. The planned project is located in the north 
of Gangli Village, Beigou Town, Penglai City, which belongs to terrain area of low hill. 
    3. Geological Condition 
     The geological condition of the area belongs to the shield of Eastern Shandong and the 
northeastern section of the rising part of Jiaodong. And there is no bad structure growth. The 
bedrock of tide part in the land and coastline is exposed. The natures of rocks are basalt and 
taff. And the rocks incline to the sea. 
     4.  Hydrology 
    The main river of this town is Weiyang River, of which the resource is Xujiaji Town 
combining the Huangshui River into Bohai Sea. This river is seasonal river, and there is water 
in the rain seasons and dry in the dry seasons. 
                                                                                                                               
                                  
The tide in this sea area is formal semi-diurnal tide, and the average flood tide is 6 hour: 
and 5 minutes, the average falling tide period is 6 hours and 19 minutes. The average sea 
surface (the base level is average Huanghai Sea surface) is 0.08m. The average tidal range all 
these years is 1.03m, and the highest sea level all these years is 2.02m. The ocean current is 
influenced by the Miaodao strait tide, so the ocean current of flood tide in the sea area is to the 
east a little toward south, and the falling tide is to the west a little toward south. The flood tide 
is bigger falling tide. The waves in this sea area are mainly stormy waves; the average, 
frequency is 86.1%. Common wave direction is to the north, and the frequency 9%, the, 
sub-wave direction is northwest, and the frequency is 5%. The strong wave direction is 
northwest and sub-strong wave direction is to the north. This sea area is not frozen. 
      5.  Meteorology 
       (1)  Temperature 
     The average temperature all these years is 11.9 ~C. The highest temperature appears in 
July, and the average temperature in this month is 24.6~C. The lowest temperature appears in 
January, and the average temperature in this month is -2.4~C. The highest temperature all these 
years is 38.4~C (July 5, 1972), and the lowest temperature all these years is -14.9~C (February 
1979). 
 
Page  96
 
 96
(2) Precipitation 
The average precipitation all these years is 657.7mm. The rainfall in the whole 
year 
mainly concentrates in July, August and September. Among these, the rainfall in July 
and 
August mainly covers the 47% of the total rainfall in each year. The largest rainfall 
one day is 
208.lmm(August 25, 1982), and the longest raining period lasted 9 days. (July 1970) 
    (3) Wind regime 
For many years, the average wind speed is 4.2m/s. The leading wind direction is 
SSW and 
The frequency is 15%. The whole year strong wind directions are N, NW, the 
maximum wind 
speed is 28m/s, instant maximum wind speed is 40.0m/s(June 5, 1963), the sub-strong 
wind 
direction is NNE, the fastest wind speed is 27m/s.. 
SW wind prevails in spring; there appears storm and cyclone alternatively to the 
south 
And north in summer. The average appearance days of 8-degree wind are 39.4 days 
for these 
years.There appears average 2 or 3 times' typhoon in the harbor. 
The average appearance days of heavy fog (the visibility is under 1 km) are 6 
days. 
6.  Earthquake 
The average intensity of the earthquake is 7 degree. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  97
 
 97
Social environment briefing (social economy structure, education, culture, historic 
relics protection and so on): 
Penglai City Beigou Town is the important development zone in Penglai City, 
which governs 80 towns and natural villages. By the end of 2001, the County has the 
population of 620,000, and covers 190 km2, and the population density is 329 
persons/km2 .The GDP of town in 2001 reached 5.4 billion yuan, and the industrial 
product value is 3.1 billion. With the development of the economy in Penglai City, the 
construction of Beigou Town got obvious progress. The framework of the main road 
in the county has formed fundamentally, and piping equipment improved greatly. At 
present the number of enterprises is 210. And they can be divided into 6 types 
according to the careers: aquatic food processing, dyeing, carpet, wine, chemical 
industry, and dock and so on. 
Shandong Weiyang Group Company in this county is the leading industrial 
enterprise in PenglIai City. This company is the large-scale group company in which 
the hi-tech biological engineering is leading, and the construction and textile are flank 
and combines technology, industry, trade together. The company has fixed assets of 
0.14 billion yuan, and 2,800 staffs. The company is powerful and realized the product 
value of 0.28 billion yuan, and 14.06 million yuan's profit. The company has 15 
enterprises and facilities, among which the cement production ability reached 0.7 
million tons/year. 
This county has advanced industry and agriculture with abundant resources of 
agriculture, forest, fruit, fishing, mining, in which the construction materials are 
outstanding. The water and ground transportations are convenient and fast, so there 
are many businessmen from overseas. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  98
 
 98
Environment Quality Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comme
nting 
suitable 
standar
ds 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constr
uction 
Project 
Analysi
s 
 
Techniques Flowing Chart 
Touch Oxidation Techniques Flowing Chart 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Environment Quality Conditions and Main Problems Where the Project is Located 
(environmental air, ground water, underground water, sound environment, ecological 
environment, etc.) 
Environmental Air: annual average day SO
2 
concentration range is from 0.006-
0.053mg/Nm3, NO
2  
annual average hour concentration range is from 0.032-
0.27mg/Nm3, which are all in accordance with the second level standard of 
Environmental Air Quality Standard (GB3097-1996). 
Environmental Noise:By monitoring the noises of environment, the Leg in the day time 
is 45.0Db(A) and in the night time it is 44.1dB(A),which are all in accordance with the 
2
nd
 level standard of City Area Environment Noise Standard(GB3096-93). 
Coast Sea Area: In August 2001, the supervision results of the special dock for base oil 
of Weiyang Luanjiakou Harbor of Shandong Province indicates that all the standards are 
in accordance with the 2
nd
 standard of SEAWATER WATER QUALITY STANDARD 
(GB3097-1997),in which the PH IS 8.04-8.19, DO is 6.40-6.80mg/L, CODMn is 0.72-
0.96mg/L,active PH is 0.005-0.022mg/L, Inorganic N is 0.014-0.193mg/L, SS is 2-4 the 
mg/L, Hg and petroleum are not checked out and the salinity is 31.568‰-32.844‰. All 
the standard indexes of all pollutant are under 1.0, and are in accordance with the 
relevant requests of PENGLAI CITY COAST SEA AREA FUNCTION DIVIDENCE, 
and the water quality in this sea area is quite good. 
 
 
 
Main Environment Protection Objects (Name list and Protection Level): 
There is no important historic relic for protection within the appraised area.Therefore, 
the near sea and villages are the main environment protection objects. 
 
Environment 
Quality Stand  
2
nd
 grade of ENVIRONMENTAL AIR QUALITY STANDARE 
(GB3097-1996) 
2
nd
grade of SEA WATER QUALITY STANDARD(GB3097-
1997) 
2
nd 
grade of URBAN DISTRICT ENVIRONMENT NOISE 
STANDARD 
(GB3096-93) 
Pollutant 
Discharge 
Standard 
1
st
 grade of WASTE WATER COMPREHENSIVE DISCHAGE 
STANDARD(GB8978-1996); 
ODOR POLLUTANT DISCHARGE STANDARD(GB14554-93) 
BOILER ATMOSPHERE POLLUTANT DISCHARGE 
STANDARD(GB13271-2001); 
2
nd
 standard of INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES NOISE 
STANDARD (GB12348-90). 
AGRICULTURAL SLUDGE POLLUTANT CONTROL 
STANDARD 
(GB4284-84); 
Total Amount 
Control Standard 
This project is an environment protection project, after operation 
the project construction can decrease the total COD discharge 
amount by 1,600 tons each year. 
Comprehensi
ve Effluent 
Machiner
y 
Gill
Adjusting
Basin
Pre-
de
p
osit
Touch 
Oxidatio 
Second 
Deposit
Basin 
Sludge 
Concentratio
n
Dehydratio
n 
Mhi
 
Shipping out for
2
 treatment 
Page  99
 
 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main Pollution Working Procedures: 
1.  Piping effluent treated  
2.  Waste gas smell from the open operating buildings 
3. Waste gas from boilers 
4.  Noises of blowers, pumps, etc. 
5.  Sludge from de-hydration machine 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project’s main occurred pollutants and expected discharge conditions 
Page  100
 
 100
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       Content 
 
 
Type 
Discharge 
Source 
Name of 
Pollutants 
Occurred 
density 
And amount 
before 
treatment(Unit)
Discharge density and 
amount(Unit) 
Air Pollutants 
Technical 
waste gas, 
boiler waster 
gas 
H
2
S \1fNH
3
 
SO
2
 
450mg/m3 
0.585t/a 
Plant Area: 
H2S  0.013-
0.043mg/m3 
NH3 not decided-
0.070 
Mg/m3 
450mg/m3  0.580 t/a 
Water 
Pollutants 
Production 
waste water, 
Living waste 
water 
COD 
500mg/L 5t/d 
330mg/L 
1Kg/d 
60mg/L  0.6t/d 
60mg/L  0.18Kg/d 
Solid Wastes 
Sludge 
 
3.75t/d 
3.75t/d 
Noise 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and 
blowers are about 90dB (A). Isolated by pump house and machine house 
and flagged by distance, the sound level can be reduced to 31dB (A). The 
environmental noise monitoring levels of this area are~45.0 dB (A) in the 
daytime and 44.1 dB (A) at night. After adding the influence value and 
environment current value, the noises within the plant area are 45.4 dB (A) 
in the daytime and 44.9 dB (A), which are in accordance with II Standard 
of Industrial Enterprise Plant Area Noise Standard (GB 12348-90). 
Other None 
Page  101
 
 101
Environmental Influence Analysis 
Page  102
 
 102
Brief analysis to environmental influence during construction period: 
    During the construction period, the project will cause construction noise and small amount 
of 
construction powder. But because it is field work, so there is a little influence to environment 
and the 
influence will disappear with the end of construction. 
Environmental Influence Analysis During Operating Period: 
Environmental influence during the project's operating period is embodied in the following 
aspects. 
   1, Waste Water- 
  ( 1 )  Under normal conditions, the discharged waste water is almost 10 thousand m3/d, 
CODcr 0.6 t/d. 
The discharged effluent can reach the 1st grade requirement of Effluent Comprehensive 
Discharge 
Standard (GB8978-1996). After the effluent is discharged into sea through special pipes, it 
can be 
confirmed through comparison and investigation to relevant items that: except that COD in 
mixing area 
0.01 Km2 (15 m) way from estuary overreaches the standard, the water quality of other areas 
are all in 
accordance with the 2na Grade Standard of Seawater Quality Standard (GB3097-1997); 
(2) But under accidents when the effluent treatment system does not work and the untreated 
effluent is 
directly discharged into the sea, COD in mixing area overreaches the standard 2.75 Km2 and 
the influence 
to surrounding sea is serious. 
2. Waste Gas 
Waste gas discharged from buildings working openly contains many kinds of badly odor 
materials. Their 
main contents are sulfured hydrogen, thiol, thio ether and other sulfides, ammonia, amine, 
alcohol, fat 
acid, indole, etc. among which the most is sulfured hydrogen and ammonia. According to the 
analysis to 
odor influence information of Yantai Laishan Effluent Treatment Factory by Qingdao Ocean 
University 
Environment Protection Research Center, it-can be confirmed that within the factory area, 
H2S 
0.013-0.043 mg/m3, NH3 not decided-0.070 mg/m3, which are in accordance with the 2nd 
Standard of 
Odor Pollutant Discharge Standard (GB14554-93). Usually the odor is not that obvious 200 
meters way 
from the factory border, but in summer the odor can influence a range of 300 meters; boiler 
discharged 
SO2450 mg/m3 and 0.585 t/a, through 10 meters longchimney, can reach 2"d Class Area II 
2nd Time Zone requirement of Boiler Atmosphere Pollutant Discharge. Standard (GB13271-
2001). Due to the boiler discharged pollutants are very few, they will not have obvious 
influence to surrounding air. 
3. Sludge: 
Discharged sludge amount is 3.75 t/d. After the sludge is stabilized and then dehydrated, 
water content is 
less than 80% and reach the requirement of Farm Sludge Pollutant Control Standard 
(GB4284-84) and 
can be shipped out and used in the field and will not cause pollution. 
4. Noise: 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and blowers are about 
90dB (A) . 
Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged by distance, the sound level can be 
reduced to 
31 dB (A). The environmental noise monitoring levels of this area are 45.0 dB (A) in the 
daytime and 44.1 
dB (A) at night. After
adding the influence value and environment current value, the noises
Page  103
 
 103
 
Intended Prevention Actions and Expected Treatment Results 
 
 
 
Page  104
 
 104
 
 
 
Content 
Type 
Discharging 
Source 
Pollutant Prevention 
Actions 
Expected 
Treatment 
Results 
Atmosphere 
Pollutant 
Industrial 
waste 
gas,     
boiler 
waste gas 
H
2
S 
NH
2
 
SO
2
 
None 
None 
In  accordance  with 
  Odor 
Pollutant Discharge 
  Standard 
(GB14554-93); in 
 accordance 
with    Boiler 
    Atmosphere 
Pollutant  Discharge 
  Standard 
(GB13271-2001) 
Water        
Production 
 
Pollutant      
Effluent, 
                  
Living 
Effluent 
COD 
COD 
Touch       Oxidation 
Techniques 
Touch        Oxidation 
Techniques 
In accordance with 
Effluent 
Comprehensive  Discharge 
Standard (GB8978-1996) 
In accordance with 
Effluent 
Comprehensive  Discharge 
Standard (GB8978-1996) 
Solid Waste 
Sludge 
 
Treated according to 
Urban Effluent 
 Treatment 
Factory Effluent & 
Sludge Discharge      
Standard (CJ3025-93) 
In accordance  with 
  Urban Effluent 
  Treatment  Factory 
Effluent & Sludge 
Discharge 
Standard (CJ3025-93) 
Noise 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and 
blowers are 
about 90dB (A) . Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged by 
distance, the 
sound level can be reduced to 31 dB (A). The environmental noise monitoring 
levels of this 
area are 45.0 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.1 dB (A) at night. After adding the 
influence 
value and environment current value, the noises within the plant area are 45.4 dB 
(A) in the 
daytime and 44.9 dB (A), which are in accordance with II Standard of Industrial 
Enterprise 
Plant Area Noise Standard (GB 12348-90). 
Others None 
        Ecological protection actions and expected results 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions: 
During the construction period, there will be construction noises and small amount of 
construction 
powder. But for it is fieldwork, there is little influence to environment and the influence 
will disappear with the end of construction. 
Environmental influence during the project's operating period is embodied in the following 
aspects: 
   1, Waste Water: 
(1) Under normal conditions, the discharged waste water is almost 10 thousand m3/d, 
CODcr 0.6 
t/d. The discharged effluent can reach the 1st grade requirement of Effluent 
Comprehensive 
Discharge Standard (GB8978-1996). After the effluent is discharged into sea through 
special pipes, 
it can be confirmed through comparison and investigation to relevant items that: except 
that COD in 
mixing area 0.01 Km2 (15 m) way from estuary overreaches the standard, the water quality 
of other 
areas are all in accordance with the 2nd Grade Standard of Seawater Quality 
Standard(GB3097-1997); 
(2) But under accidents when the effluent treatment system does not work and the 
untreated effluent 
    is directly discharged into the sea, COD in mixing area overreaches the standard 2.75 
Km2 and 
the influence to surrounding sea is serious. 
2. Waste Gas 
Waste gas discharged from buildings working openly contains many kinds of badly odor 
materials. 
Their main contents are sulfured hydrogen, thiol, thio ether and other sulfides, ammonia, 
amine, 
alcohol, fat acid, indole, etc. among which the most is sulfured hydrogen and ammonia. 
According 
to the analysis to odor influence information of Yantai Laishan Effluent Treatment Factory 
by 
Qingdao Ocean University Environment Protection Research Center, it can be confirmed 
that within 
the factory area, H2S 0.013-0.043 mg/m3, NH3 not decided-0.070 mg/m3, which are in 
accordance 
with the 2nd Standard of Odor Pollutant Discharge Standard (GB14554-93). Usually the 
odor is not 
that obvious 200 meters way from the factory border, but in summer the odor can influence 
a range 
of 300 meters; boiler discharged SO2 450 mg/m3 and 0.585 t/a, through 10 meters long 
chimney, can 
reach 2nd Class Area II 2na Time Zone requirement of Boiler Atmosphere Pollutant 
Discharge 
Standard (GB13271-2001). Due to the boiler discharged pollutants are very few, they will 
not have 
obvious influence to surrounding air. 
3. Sludge: 
Discharged sludge amount is 3.75 t/d. After the sludge is stabilized and then dehydrated, 
water 
content is less than 80% and reach the requirement of Farm Sludge Pollutant Control 
Standard 
(GB4284-84) and can be shipped out and used in the field and will not cause pollution. 
4. Noise: 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and blowers are 
about 90dB 
 (A) . Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged by distance, the sound level 
can be 
reduced to 31dB 
(
A
)
. The environmental noise monitorin
g
 levels of this area are 45.0 dB 
Page  105
 
 105
Conclusions & Suggestions 
 
 
 
 
 
Suggestions: 
1. In order to alleviate the influent of odors to surrounding environment, we suggest to 
strengthen 
greening between main buildings and walls, forming an over 10 meters wide greening area to 
attract 
and isolate odor materials and make the environment beautiful as well. Greening shall 
choose tree 
seedlings that have strong attractive ability to odor materials (such as ammonia, sulfured 
hydrogen, 
etc.) When accidents happen in summer, place fragrant materials over grill houses and 
deposit 
basins to cover the odor. 
2. The factory border of Effluent Treatment Factory shall not less than 300 meters away 
from 
residential villages. 
3. The floating rubbish in the effluent can be stopped by grills. But the sporadic oil in the 
effluent 
still will flow into the sea. In order to prevent from oil film, we suggest adding effluent 
floating oil 
isolation facility. 
4. When effluent treatment system does not work and cannot treat the effluent, the factory 
shall 
adopt effective actions to avoid a large amount of untreated effluent directly being 
discharged into 
the sea, preventing from serious pollution to surrounding sea area. 
5. After the sludge is stabilized and then dehydrated, water content is less than 80% and 
reach the 
requirement of Farm Sludge Pollutant Control Standard (GB4284-84) and can be used in the 
field. 
6. We suggest that after in-depth treatment of part of effluent, they can be re-used in 
greening and 
agricultural irrigation, etc. to alleviate the pollution to sea water. 
Page  106
 
 106
 
Pre-exam suggestions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaker:                                   Seal: 
                                       Day        Month        Year  
 
The exam suggestion by the sub-administrative department in charge of environment 
protection: 
  
 
 
 
 
           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaker:                                  Seal: 
Day          Month          Year 
 
 
 
 
 
Examined suggestions: 
 
 
Page  107
 
 107
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaker:                                 Seal: 
Day         Month          Year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes 
 
1.This report should have the following annexes and charts 
Annex 1.  Setting-up Approval document 
Annex 2.  The other administrative management document connected with environment 
comments 
Page  108
 
 108
 Chart 1. Project geographical position chart (It should reflect administrative divide, water series,
pollutant sinker position signature and geographical conditions and so on.) 
 Chart 2. Project flat position chart 
2.If this report form cannot explain the pollution made by the project and influence on the 
environment, 
it should be commented professionally. According to the characteristic of the construction 
project and 
local environment, one or two of the following should be chosen. 
1) Special comment about the atmosphere environment influence. 
2) Special comment about the water environment (includes surface water and underground 
water) 
3) Special comment about the ecological influence 
4) Special comment about the sound influence 
5) Special comment about the earth influence 
6) Special comment about the solid waste. 
 
 
The listed special comments that are not included in the above special comments can be carded 
out 
according to the requirement in THE ENVIRONMENT INFLUENCE COMMENT 
TECHNOLOGY 
GUIDE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Photocopied by Shandong Province Environment Protection Bureau 
 
 
Construction 
Project name 
Beigou Town Comprehensive 
Effluent Treatment Project 
Constructio
n 
North of Gangli Village,Beigou 
Town, Penglai City 
 
Construction 
unit 
Beigou Town 
People’s 
Government 
Post code 
265601 
Tel 
0535-5912457 
Career type 
Public equipment 
service 
Project  
nature 
Newly-built Enlarging the project Technology 
Reform 
Page  109
 
 109
Construction 
scale 
Effluent treatment 
Ability 10000T/d 
Report 
type 
Report   Report from  Registration 
Project setting-up  
department 
 File 
No. 
 
Time 
 
Control scope 
SO2 
Report 
Exam 
departme
nt 
Yantai 
City 
Environme
nt 
Protection  
Bureau 
File No. 
 
Tim
e 
 
Total 
investment 
20,917,800yuan Environme
nt 
Protection 
Investment 
Ten thousand yuan 
Ratio 
Report 
Compiling unit 
Yantai City Environment 
Protection Science Research 
Center 
Commenting fee 
Ten thousand yuan 
 Environment 
quality at present 
Environment quality standard 
Discharge standard 
Atmosphere Reach 
the 
standard 
2
nd
 grade of GB3095-
1996 
GB13271-2001 2
nd
 district 
standard  
GB14554-93 
Surface water 
 
 
1
st
 grade of GB8978-1996 
Underground 
water 
  
 
Noise Reach 
the 
standard 
2
nd
 grade of GB3093-93
2
nd
 Standard of GB 12348-90 
Sea water 
Reach the standard 
2
nd
 grade of GB3097-
1997 
 
Pollution Control Standard 
Control  
item 
Former 
discharge 
Amount(
1) 
Amount of 
Newly-built 
part(2) 
Newly-built 
processing 
decreasing 
amount(3) 
New to  
Old 
Decreasing 
Amount(4) 
Discharge 
increasing 
&decreasing 
amount(5) 
Total 
Discharge 
Amount(6) 
Permitting 
Discharge 
Amount(7) 
District  
Decreasing 
Amount(8) 
Potency 
Before 
Treatment(9
) 
Predicted 
Discharg
e 
Potency(
10) 
Discharge  
Potency(11) 
Waste 
water 
 
365 
  365 
365 
    
Hg 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Cadmi
um 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Cadmi
um 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Pb 
 
 
  
  
  
  
As 
 
 
  
  
  
  
6+Chr
omium 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Hydrid
e 
 
 
  
  
  
  
COD 
 
1825 
1606 
 
209 219  
500 60  60 
Petrole
um  
Type 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Page  110
 
 110
Waste 
gas 
 
130 
  130 
130 
    
SO
2
 
 
0.585  
 
0.585 0.585  
450 
450 
500 
Powde
r 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Smoke 
 
 
  
  
  
  
Solid 
waste 
 
1369 
  1369 
1369 
    
Unit: Waste gas amount: XlO4 standard meter 3/year; waste water, solid waste amount: 
ten thousand tons/year; other items are all tons/year. Waste water potency: mg/1; waste 
 
Notice: This form is filled in by commenting units, and is attached at the end of the report 
book (form). The last blank of the form is the characteristic pollutant of this item. 
 
Among: (5)=(2)-(3)-(4);(6)=(2)-(3)+(1)-(4) 
 
Page  111
 
 111
 
 
 
 Monitor item 
Monitor 
content 
Monitor unit 
Monitor 
interval 
 
 Construction 
period of the   
Effluent 
treatment plant 
 
Analyze and monitor 
the influence of the 
construction on the 
environment along 
the seaside 
BOD5,COD,T
N,TP,TK, 
Heavy Metal, 
etc. 
Monitor 
group of 
Penglai 
Environment 
Protection 
Bureau 
Monitor every 
two months  
 Attempt 
operating 
period of the  
effluent 
Treatment 
Plant 
The quality of inlet, 
outlet piping entrance 
and water quality 
near the piping outlet 
as well   as water 
quality change along 
the seaside 
BOD5,COD,T
N,TP,TK, 
Heavy Metal, 
etc. 
Monitor 
group of 
Penglai 
Environment 
Protection 
Bureau and 
monitor group 
of the effluent 
Treatment 
Plant 
 Monitor 
group of 
effluent 
Treatment 
Plant 
monitors inlet 
and outlet 
water quality 
everyday. 
monitors 
outlet of 
drainage and 
the water 
quality of 
water region 
along coast 
every  three 
days. And 
Penglai 
Environment 
Protection 
Bureau does it 
every week 
Operation 
period of the 
effluent 
Treatment 
Plant 
Monitor the outlet 
whether accord with 
the design, and 
whether accord with 
the discharge 
standard and the 
change in water area 
along coast 
BOD5,COD,T
N,TP,TK, 
Heavy Metal, 
etc. 
Monitor 
group of 
Penglai 
Environment 
Protection 
Bureau and 
monitor group 
of the effluent 
Treatment 
Plant 
Monitor 
group of 
Wastewater 
Treatment 
Plant 
monitors inlet 
and outlet 
water quality, 
monitors 
outlet of 
drainage and 
the water 
quality of 
water area 
along coast 
every week. 
And Penglai 
Environment 
Protection 
Bureau 
checks outlet 
water quality 
every  month, 
and monitors 
the change in 
water area 
along coast 
indefinite 
p
eriod. 
Page  112
 
 112
 
 
 
 
 
Construction Project Environment Influence 
Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name\1fPenglai Chaoshui Town Comprehensive Effluent Treatment Project
 
Construction Unit (seal)\1fChaoshui Town People’s Government 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compiling Date\1fAugust 6, 2003  
Made by General Bureau of National Environment Protection 
 
 
Page  113
 
 113
Compiling Explanation to the Environment Affected Report List of Construction Project 
 
    Report List of Construction Project on Environment Effect is compiled by the units, which have 
estimation certificate on environment effect.  
    1. Project name — the name of the project when it waits for approval, it should be no more than 
thirty Chinese words (two English phases
 
is regarded as one Chinese word). 
    2. Construction site — the detailed geographical location of the project, highways and railways 
should be pointed out the beginning and terminal.  
    3. Trade type — list according to national standard.  
    4. Total investment — the amount of investment. 
    5. Main environment protection target — the dense resident areas, schools, hospitals, protected 
relic, place of interest, water source and ecological smart area that are in certain scale surrounding 
the project should be marked in the aspect of protected targets, character, scale and distance from 
the project border.  
    6. Conclusion and suggestion — the analysis conclusion about the clear production, standard 
discharge and amount control of the project should be given to make out the effectiveness of the 
anti-pollution measures, to explain the effect of the project on environment, thus to draw a definite 
conclusion on the environment feasibility of the project. Other suggestions on how to reduce the 
effect to the environment should also be given. 
7. Pre-exam suggestion--------- replying suggestions filled in by career department in charge. If 
there is no department in charge, it cannot be filled in.  
8. 
Exam suggestion------------Examined by the environment protection administrative 
department in charge of examining the project.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  114
 
 114
Construction Item Environment Influence Comment Qualification 
Certificate 
 
Unit Name: Yantai Environment Protection Science Research Institute 
Commenting Organization: Appraisal Office 
Certificate grade: 2
nd
 Grade 
Certificate No.: Guo Huan Ping Zheng YI Zi No. 2419 
Business scope: Earth surface water, water underground, gas, sound and solid waste, ecology, 
water and earth holding, social economy, human body health***** Chemistry industry, petroleum 
Chemistry and medicine; Transportation, mining; light industry, textile, chemical fiber; 
Machinery, Electronics; Metallurgy and pressing & extending process*****. 
Valid Date: From January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2004 
The State Environment Protection Bureau  
December 25, 1999 
 
 
Appraisal unit:  Yantai Environment Protection Science Research Institute
 (seal) 
Person in charge\1f Zhou Dexing 
 
Estimation Staff  
Name Major 
 Title 
Certificate 
No. 
Responsibility 
 
Zhou 
Dexing  
Scientific study 
and 
environment 
estimation 
Senior 
engineer  
Huan Ping Gang 
Zheng Zi 
No.B24190005 
Environment estimation 
Li Weihua 
Scientific study 
and 
environment 
estimation 
Engineer 
Huan Ping Gang 
Zheng Zi 
No.B24190003 
Environment estimation 
Liu Yanqing 
Scientific study 
and 
environment 
estimation 
Engineer  
Huan Ping Gang 
Zheng Zi 
No.B241900059 
Environment estimation 
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
Page  115
 
 115
   
 
 
   
 
 
Basic Introduction about the Construction Project 
 
Project name 
Penglai Chaoshui Town Comprehensive Effluent Treatment Project  
Construction 
unit  
Chaoshui Town People’s Government 
Legal 
representative  
 Si Weifang 
Contact 
Zhang Zhenming 
Address  
Penglai, Shandong Province 
Tel 5816882 
Fax 
 
5816882 P. 
C.  265601 
Construction 
site 
East of Yaqian Village, Chaoshui Town, Penglai 
Examination and 
approval 
department 
Penglai Municipal Development an
d
Planning Bureau 
Approval code
Peng Ji Fa [2003] No. 67 
Construction 
character 
Newly built 
Trade type and 
code 
Public facility service industry 
11750 
Occupied area 
(m
2
) 
20000 
Plantation area 
(m
2
)  
7185 
Total 
investment 
(RMB 10,000)  
2490 
Investment in environment 
protection (RMB 10,000) 
included 
2490 
Proportion of 
environment 
protection 
investment to 
total 
investment  
100% 
Estimation cost 
(RMB10,000) 
 
Planed date for practice 
August 2004 
Page  116
 
 116
 Project Content and Scale 
1. Construction scale: 
the planed scale of comprehensive effluent disposal project is 10,000m
3.
/d, 
including the industrial effluent of 8500m
3.
/d\1fliving effluent of 1500m
3.
/d. The general changing index is 
1.3; the largest volume of effluent in an hour is 542m
3
/h. 
     
2. Technique choice:
 Biolak technique (see page 9) 
3. Construction Content 
Inside the effluent disposal plant, the buildings and structures are divided into 4 functional areas 
according to their functions. 
Area before the plant:
 consists of comprehensive office & lab building and dinning room. It is 
separated from producing area by green area. The residential area is arranged around the four corners of the 
plant and it is separated from area before the plant by the green area between them. 
Effluent Treatment Area:
 it is located at the central part of the plant with roads and area before the 
plant at its opposite. It consists of bar rack, water input pump room, grill house, touch oxidation basin, fan 
house, deposit basin, stabilization basin, etc. 
Sludge Treatment Area:
 it is an independent area located at the northeast of the plant, which 
consists of sludge condensation basin, sludge store basin and sludge de-hydration machine house, etc. 
There is a side door for transportation and it is strictly isolated with area before the plant. 
Water Recycling Area: 
consists of elevating pump house, chloride adding room, reservoir, chloride 
adding touch basin, etc. Among them, the water supply pump house, fire fighting pump house and 
elevating pump house are set up together. The chloride adding room is far away from the area before plant. 
4. Road arrangement:
 the main roads inside the plant are connected with the outside roads in two 
places, one is in the southwest of the plant, which is the main passage for the plant, and the other is 
arranged in the east of the plant, mainly for the transport of grille rubbish and dehydration mud. The 
sidewalk adopts the snake connection. 
5. Main pipe arrangement:
 the diameter of the effluent pipe into the plant is 
\01
800mm. It connects 
with the adjusting basin. The effluent disposal structures inside the plant are all connected with each other 
by cast iron pipe in diameter of 
\01
500-
\01
800; The sludge pipe adopts the
\01
500-
\01
800 cast iron pipe. In case of 
the accident, the main disposal structures are all equipped with transcendental pipes. Inside the plant, rain 
pipe and effluent pipe are laid for the collection and discharge of rain, living or production effluent. The 
effluent is discharged to the collector well in the pump house. 
6. Electricity Supply: 
the two 5KV of the plant are transported from the transformer substation in the 
northwest, which is directly layed to the transformer substation high voltage side, one is for work and the 
other is for reserve. Under normal conditions, 1# supplies electricity, otherwise the spare electricity source 
will be put into use. The electricity volume of the plant is 363,000Kwh/a (real electrical energy)  
7. Heat Supply:
 oil hot water boiler of WNS-0.7/0.4/95/70 is used for the winter heating. The annual 
c
onsumption of diesel oil is 100 tons. 
Page  117
 
 117
8. Production organization and staff number: 
three-shift working system is practiced and the annual 
working days are 365. The fixed staff is 22 persons, including 12 operation staff, 4 subsidiary production 
staff, 3 management techniques and 3 service staff. 
 
The original pollution related with the project and the main environment pollution:  
 
 
None.
 
 
Page  118
 
 118
Briefings on natural and social environment of the area where the project locates: 
 
N
atural environment (terrain, landform, geological condition, climate, metrology, hydrology, 
vegetation, biodiversity and so on) 
    1. Geological position 
The effluent treatment project is located in Penglai Chaoshui Town The town is located 
at the east part of famous fairy land - Penglai Pavilion, which is 40 km from Yantai Municiapal 
Government with Yantai ETDZ at its east, the Yellow Sea at its north, borders on Daxindian 
Town in the west and joins Daliuhang Town in the south. 
2. Terrain and Landform 
    Chaoshui Town belongs to low hill highland, there formed a flat stream area flatland in the 
central north of the town, which covers 60% total area of the town. The landform of Chaoshui 
is high in the southwest and low in the northeast. The altitude of Nuwang Mountain in the 
southwest is 230.5 meters and 176.7 meters of the Bailian Mountain in the northwest. The 
planned effluent treatment project is located at the east of Yaqian Village, Chaoshui Town, 
Penglai, the area belongs to coastal flat. 
    3. Geological Condition 
The geological condition of the area belongs to the shield of Eastern Shandong. The 
northeastern section of the rising part of Jiaodong is located at the northern border of the rising 
part of Jiaobei as from Jiaodong. And there is no bad structure growth. The bedrock of tide part 
in the land and coastline is exposed. The natures of rocks are basalt and tuff. And the rocks 
incline to the sea.   
     4\1f Hydrology 
    The main river of this town is Beifengshan River, Pingchang River and Chunyu River which 
all belong to seasonal river. Among them, Pingchang River is the 2
nd
 largest river in Penglai 
originated from the south foot of Pengban Mountain that connected with Pengqi. It enters 
Penglai from the south of Daduogou Village and finally enters the Yellow Sea in Pingchang 
Weijia from south to north. The river inside town length of is 19.6 kilometers covering an area 
of 223.1 square meters.  
The tide in this sea area is formal semi-diurnal tide, and the average flood tide is 6 hours 
and 5 minutes, the average falling tide period is 6 hours and 19 minutes. The average sea 
surface (the base level is average Huanghai Sea surface) is 0.08m. The average tidal range all 
these years is 1.03m, and the highest sea level all these years is 2.02m. The ocean current is 
influenced by the Miaodao strait tide, so the ocean current of flood tide in the sea area is to the 
east by south, and the falling tide is to the west by south. The flood tide is bigger falling tide. 
The waves in this sea area are mainly stormy waves; the average frequency is 86.1%. Common 
wave direction is north and the frequency 9%, the sub-wave direction is northwest, and the 
frequency is 5%. The strong wave direction is northwest and sub-strong wave direction is to 
the north. This sea area is not frozen. 
Page  119
 
 119
     5\1f Meteorology 
\08
1
\09fi
Temperature 
The average temperature all these years is 11.9 
\03
. The highest temperature appears in 
July, and the average temperature in this month is 24.6
\03
. The lowest temperature appears in 
January, and the average temperature in this month is –2.4\1f. The highest temperature all these 
years is 38.4\1f(July 5, 1972), and the lowest temperature all these years is –14.9\1f(February 2, 
1979).  
 
\08
2
\09fi
Precipitation 
The average precipitation all these years is 657.7mm. The rainfall in the whole year 
mainly concentrates in July, August and September. Among these, the rainfall in July and 
August mainly covers the 47% of the total rainfall in each year. The largest rainfall one day 
was 208.1mm (August 25, 1982), and the longest raining period lasted 9 days. (July 1970)  
\08
3
\09fi
Wind regime 
  For many years, the average wind speed is 4.2m/s. The leading wind direction is SSW and the 
frequency is 15%. The whole year strong wind directions are N\1fNW, the maximum wind 
speed is 28m/s, instant maximum wind speed is 40.0m/s(June 5, 1963), the sub-strong wind 
direction is NNE, the fastest wind speed is 27m/s. 
SW wind prevails in spring; there appears storm and cyclone alternatively to the south 
and north in summer. The average appearance days of 8-degree wind are 39.4 days for these 
years. There appear average 2 or 3 times’ typhoon in the harbor.    
The average appearance days of heavy fog (the visibility is less than 1km) are 6 days.  
6\1f Earthquake 
The average intensity of the earthquake is 6 degree.  
 
Page  120
 
 120
 
Social environment briefing (social economy structure, education, culture, historic relics 
protection and so on): 
    
Penglai Chaoshui Town has 53 villages and natural villages under its management. The total 
population of the town has reached 32000 with an area about 90 square kilometers by the end 
of 2001. The gross value of social products of the entire town was 1.6 billion Yuan and the 
industrial output was 1.1 billion Yuan in 2001.Chaoshui Town can develop in high speed for 
its strong industrial foundation. Over 120 enterprises enter the town and initially formed 6 
industries including lock making, chemical industry, food, printing, lamps and solar energy. 
Town furniture and lock factory, Zhaoyun Seafood Co., Ltd and Huasheng Food Factory has 
been noted as “Yantai Star Enterprise”. Chaoshui Town has tens of enterprises engaging in 
various seafood processing with an annual processing volume of over 2000 tons, among which 
the total investment of 8 projects as Ludao Food Co., Ltd., Yantai Qunfu Food Co., Ltd., etc. is 
about 100 million Yuan. Their products include 3 series as seashell, fish and alga over 40 
varieties. The town coastline is 17 kilometers long with 15 marine parks founded there; the 
main cultivating varieties include kelp, wakame, abalone, sea cucumber, scallop and mussel. 
The gross sea food production of the town in 2002 reaches 70000 tons, which has been the 
highest in history. Chaoshui town is convenient in transportation and advanced in position. The 
third industry has a vigorous development. The 3 farm product markets as Chaoshui Farm 
Product Market, Chunyu Farm Product Market and Yaqian Farm Product Market are mainly 
engaged in agricultural and sideline products with a gross daily production of 0.185 billion 
Yuan, which have become the new growth point of Chaoshui. Chaoshui Town has been 
carrying the agriculture industrial structure modulation in recent years and has established the 
new developing thoughts of mainly engaged in seafood, farming and fruit and has initially 
formed industry and scale superiority. In developing the high efficient forest and fruit industry, 
the whole town has established four high quality planting area as pear, peach, cherry and grape. 
Meanwhile, the area ratio of economic products as apple, pear and peach and the farming land 
has been adjusted to 7:3. There are 45 villages of the town have become the fruit planting 
specialized villages and 8 villages have become the vegetable planting specialized villages. 
The 0.12 billion Yuan annual income cover 6% of the total economic income. The town breeds 
over 2300 cattle and over 0.5 million pigs. There are 40 newly built chicken cotes, among 
which there are over 10 can hold chickens more than 10000 and over 20 can hold more than 
5000.  
Page  121
 
 121
 
 Environment Quality Condition 
 
Environment Quality Conditions and Main Problems Where the Project is Located 
(environmental air, ground water, underground water, sound environment, ecological 
environment, etc.) 
 
Environmental Air: annual average day SO
2
 concentration range is from 0.006-0.053mg/Nm
3
, 
NO
2
 annual average hour concentration range is from 0.005-0.066mg/Nm
3
, and TSP annual 
average day concentration range is from 0.032-0.270mg/Nm
3
, which are all in accordance with 
the second level standard of Environmental Air Quality Standard (GB3097-1996). 
 
Environmental Noise: By monitoring the noises of environment, the Leq in the day time is 
45.0dB (A) and in the night time it is 44.1dB (A), which are all in accordance with the 2
nd
 
level standard of City Area Environment Noise Standard (GB3096-93). 
 
Coastal Area: In August 2001, the supervision results indicate that the costal area seawater 
quality of this area are in accordance with the 2
nd
 standard of SEAWATER WATER 
QUALITY STANDARD (GB3097-1997), in which the PH IS 8.04-8.19, DO is 6.40-
6.80mg/L, COD
Mn
 is 0.72-0.96mg.L, active PH is 0.005-0.022mg/L, Inorganic N is 0.014-
0.193mg/L, SS is 2-4 mg/L, Hg and petroleum are not checked out and the salinity is 
31.568‰-32.844‰.  All the standard indexes of all pollutant are under 1.0, and are in 
accordance with the relevant requests of PENGLAI CITY COAST SEA AREA FUNCTION 
DIVIDENCE, and the seawater quality in this area is quite good.  
 
Main Environment Protection Objects (Name List and Protection Level): 
There is no important historic relic for protection within the appraised area. Therefore, the near 
sea and villages are the main environment protection objects. 
 
 
 
  
Page  122
 
 122
 
  
Commenting suitable standards 
 
 
 
Environment 
Quality Standard 
 
 
2
nd 
grade of ENVIRONMENTAL AIR QUALITY STANDARD (GB3097-
1996)  
2
nd 
grade of SEA WATER QUALITY STANDARD (GB3097-1997) 
2
nd 
grade of URBAN DISTRICT ENVIRONMENT NOISE STANDARD 
(GB3096-93)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pollutant Discharge 
Standard 
 
 
1
st 
grade of WASTE WATER COMPREHENSIVE DISCHAGE 
STANDARD (GB8978-1996); 
ODOR POLLUTANT DISCHARGE STANDARD(GB14554-93) 
BOILER ATMOSPHERE POLLUTANT DISCHARGE 
STANDARD(GB13271-2001); 
AGRICULTURAL SLUDGE POLLUTANT CONTROL STANDARD 
(GB4284-84); 
2
nd 
standard of INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES NOISE STANDARD 
(GB12348-90). 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Amount 
Control Standard 
 
 
 
This project is an environment protection project, after operation the project 
construction can decrease the total COD discharge amount by 1971 tons 
each year.   
 
 
 
 
Page  123
 
 123
 
Page  124
 
 124
Construction Project Analysis 
 
Techniques Flowing Chart 
    Touch Oxidation Techniques Flowing Chart  
     
 
 Pump 
 
 Main Pollution Working Procedures:  
1.  Piping effluent treated 
2.  Waste gas smell from the open operating buildings 
3. Waste gas from boilers 
4. 
Noises of fans, pumps, etc. 
5.  Sludge from de-hydration machine 
 
Machiner
y Grill 
Adjusting 
Basin 
Pre-
deposit 
Basin
 Touch 
Oxidation 
Basin 
Second 
Deposit 
Basin 
Dehydrati
on 
Machine
Sludge 
Concentr
ation 
Basin
Comprehensive 
Effluent 
Sterilization 
Room 
Discharging or Recycling
Aeratio
n basin 
Remaine
d sludge 
Shipping out the 
sludge cake 
Page  125
 
 125
 
Project’s main occurred pollutants and expected discharge conditions  
 
Content 
 
Type 
Discharge 
Source 
Names of 
Pollutants 
Occurred density 
and amount before 
treatment (Unit) 
Discharge density and 
amount (Unit) 
Air 
Pollutant
s 
1. Technical 
waste gas  
2. 
b
oiler waste 
gas 
1. H
2
S\1fNH
3 
 
2. SO
2
 
2. 450 mg/m
3    
0.585 t/a 
1. Plant Area\1f 
H
2
S  0.013–0.043mg/m
3 
NH
3
 not decided–0.070 
mg/m
3 
2. 450 mg/m
3    
0.585 t/a 
 
Water 
Pollutant
s 
 Production 
waste water 
COD 
SS 
NH
3
-N 
600mg/L    6t/d 
350mg/L    3.5t/d 
 40 mg/L  0.4t/d 
60mg/L     0.6 t/d  
20mg/L     0.2 t/d 
15mg/L    0.15t/d 
Solid 
Wastes 
Sludge  
3.75t/d 
3.75t/d 
Noise 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and fans are 
about 90dB\1fA\1f. Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged by distance, 
the sound level can be reduced to 31dB (A). The environmental noise monitoring 
levels (Leq) of this area are 45.0 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.1 dB (A) at night. After 
adding the influence value and environment current value, the noises within the plant 
area are 45.4 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.9 dB (A) at night, which are in accordance 
with II Standard of Industrial Enterprise Plant Area Noise Standard (GB 12348-90). 
 
 
Others None 
Main ecological impact (more pages are needed when not enough) 
 
N
one 
  
Page  126
 
 126
Environmental Influence Analysis 
 
  Brief analysis to environmental influence during construction period: 
 
  During the construction period, the project will cause construction noise and small amount of construction 
powder. But because it is field work, so there is a little influence to environment and the influence will disappear with the 
end of construction. 
 
Environmental Influence Analysis During Operating Period: 
    Environmental influence during the project’s operating period is embodied in the following aspects\1f 
    1\1fWaste Water\1f 
\1f1\1f
 Under normal conditions:
 the discharged waste water is almost 10 thousand m
3
/d, CODcr 0.6 t/d. 
The discharged effluent can reach the 1
st
 grade requirement of Effluent Comprehensive Discharge 
Standard (GB8978-1996). After the effluent is discharged into sea through special pipes, it can be 
confirmed through comparison and investigation to relevant items that: except that COD in mixing area 
0.01 Km
2
 (15 Mu) way from estuary overreaches the standard, the water quality of other areas are all in 
accordance with the 2
nd
 Grade Standard of Seawater Quality Standard (GB3097-1997);  
(2) 
But under accidents: 
when the effluent treatment system does not work and the untreated effluent is 
directly discharged into the sea, COD in mixing area overreaches the standard 2.75 Km
2
 and the 
influence to surrounding sea is serious. 
 
2. Waste Gas 
Waste gas discharged from buildings working openly contains many kinds of badly odor materials. Their 
main contents are sulfured hydrogen, thiol, thio ether and other sulfides, ammonia, amine, alcohol, fat 
acid, indole, etc. among which the most is sulfured hydrogen and ammonia. According to the analysis to 
odor influence information of Yantai Laishan Effluent Treatment Plant by Qingdao Ocean University 
Environment Protection Research Center, it can be confirmed that within the plant area, H
2
S 0.013-0.043 
mg/m
3
, NH
3
 not decided-0.070 mg/m
3 
, which are in accordance with the 2
nd
 Standard of Odor Pollutant 
Discharge Standard (GB14554-93). Usually the odor is not that obvious 200 meters way from the plant 
border, but in summer the odor can influence a range of 300 meters; boiler discharged SO
2 
450 mg/m
3
 
and 0.585 t/a, through 10 meters long chimney, can reach 2
nd
 Class Area II 2
nd
 Time Zone requirement of 
Boiler Atmosphere Pollutant Discharge Standard (GB13271-2001). Due to the boiler discharged 
pollutants are very few, they will not have obvious influence to surrounding air. 
 
3. Sludge: 
Discharged sludge amount is 3.75 t/d. After the sludge is stabilized and then dehydrated, water content is 
less than 80% and reach the requirement of Farm Sludge Pollutant Control Standard (GB4284-84) and 
can be shipped out and used in the field and will not cause pollution. 
 
4. Noise: 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and fans are about 90dB\1fA\1f. 
Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged by distance, the sound level can be reduced to 
31dB (A). The environmental noise monitoring levels of this area are 45.0 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.1 
dB (A) at night. After adding the influence value and environment current value, the noises within the 
plant area are 45.4 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.9 dB (A) at night, which are in accordance with II 
Page  127
 
 127
Standard of Industrial Enterprise Plant Area Noise Standard (GB 12348-90).  
 
 
Intended Prevention Actions and Expected Treatment 
Results 
 
Content 
Discharging 
Pollutant 
Prevention Actions 
Expected Treatment 
Page  128
 
 128
Type Source 
Results 
Atmosphere 
Pollutant 
1. Industrial 
waste gas, 
2. boiler 
waste gas 
1. H
2
S  
NH
3
 
2. SO
2
 
None 
None 
1. In accordance 
with Odor 
Pollutant 
Discharge 
Standard 
(GB14554-
93);  
2. In accordance 
with Boiler 
Atmosphere 
Pollutant 
Discharge 
Standard 
(GB13271-
2001) 
Water 
Pollutant 
Production 
Effluent 
COD 
 
SS 
 
NH
3
-N 
Biolak technique 
treatment 
Biolak technique 
treatment 
Biolak technique 
treatment 
In accordance with 
Effluent Comprehensive 
Discharge Standard 
(GB8978-1996) 
In accordance with 
Effluent Comprehensive 
Discharge Standard 
(GB8978-1996) 
Solid Waste 
Sludge 
 
Treated according to 
Urban Effluent 
Treatment Plant 
Effluent & Sludge 
Discharge Standard 
(CJ3025-93)  
In accordance with Urban 
Effluent Treatment Plant 
Effluent & Sludge 
Discharge Standard 
(CJ3025-93) 
Page  129
 
 129
Noise 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and fans 
are about 90dB\1fA\1f. Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged 
by distance, the sound level can be reduced to 31dB (A). The environmental 
noise monitoring levels of this area are 45.0 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.1 dB 
(A) at night. After adding the influence value and environment current value, 
the noises within the plant area are 45.4 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.9 dB (A) 
at night, which are in accordance with II Standard of Industrial Enterprise Plant 
Area Noise Standard (GB 12348-90). 
Others None 
Ecological protection measure and intended effect 
Non 
 
 
Page  130
 
 130
Conclusions & Suggestions 
Conclusions: 
During the construction period, there will be construction noises and small amount of construction 
powder. But for it is fieldwork, there is little influence to environment and the influence will 
disappear with the end of construction. 
 
Environmental influence during the project’s operating period is embodied in the following 
aspects\1f 
    1\1fWaste Water\1f 
(1) Under normal conditions, the discharged waste water is about 10000 m
3
/d, in which the COD 
0.6 t/d, SS0.2t/d and NH
3
-N0.15t/d is contained. The discharged effluent can reach requirement of 
Effluent Comprehensive Discharge Standard (GB8978-1996). Part of the effluent is recycled and 
the rest is discharged into sea through streams. Counted on all the effluent is discharged into the sea 
that only the COD in mixing area 0.01 Km
2
 (15 m) way from estuary overreaches the standard, the 
water quality of other areas are all in accordance with the 2
nd
 Grade Standard of Seawater Quality 
Standard (GB3097-1997);  
(2) Under accidents when the effluent treatment system does not work and the untreated effluent is 
directly discharged into the sea, COD in mixing area overreaches the standard 2.75 Km
2
 and the 
influence to surrounding sea is serious. 
 
2. Waste Gas 
Waste gas discharged from buildings working openly contains many kinds of badly odor materials. 
Their main contents are sulfured hydrogen, thiol, thio ether and other sulfides, ammonia, amine, 
alcohol, fat acid, indole, etc. among which the most is sulfured hydrogen and ammonia. According 
to the analysis to odor influence information of Yantai Laishan Effluent Treatment Plant by 
Qingdao Ocean University Environment Protection Research Center, it can be confirmed that within 
the plant area, H
2
S 0.013-0.043 mg/m
3
, NH
3
 not decided-0.070 mg/m
3 
, which are in accordance 
with the 2
nd
 Standard of Odor Pollutant Discharge Standard (GB14554-93). Usually the odor is not 
that obvious 200 meters way from the plant border, but in summer the odor can influence a range of 
300 meters; boiler discharged SO
2 
450 mg/m
3
 and 0.585 t/a, through 10 meters long chimney, can 
reach 2
nd
 Class Area II 2
nd
 Time Zone requirement of Boiler Atmosphere Pollutant Discharge 
Standard (GB13271-2001). Due to the boiler discharged pollutants are very few; they will not have 
obvious influence to surrounding air. 
 
3. Sludge: 
Discharged sludge amount is 3.75 t/d. After the sludge is stabilized and then dehydrated, water 
content is less than 80% and reach the requirement of Farm Sludge Pollutant Control Standard 
(GB4284-84) and can be shipped out and used in the field and will not cause pollution. 
 
4. Noise: 
The equivalent sound level of noises from water pumps, sludge pumps and fans are about 
90dB\1fA\1f. Isolated by pump house and machine house and flagged by distance, the sound level 
can be reduced to 31dB (A). The environmental noise monitoring levels of this area are 45.0 dB (A) 
in the daytime and 44.1 dB (A) at night. After adding the influence value and environment current 
value, the noises within the plant area are 45.4 dB (A) in the daytime and 44.9 dB (A), which are in 
accordance with II Standard of Industrial Enterprise Plant Area Noise Standard (GB 12348-90). 
 
Through the above analysis, we think during the normal running of the project, if the proposed 
actions can be executed, the project is feasible from the angle of environment protection. 
Page  131
 
 131
 
Suggestions: 
1. In order to alleviate the influent of odors to surrounding environment, we suggest to strengthen 
greening between main buildings and walls, forming an over 10 meters wide green area to attract 
and isolate odor materials and make the environment beautiful as well. Greening shall choose tree 
seedlings that have strong attractive ability to odor materials (such as ammonia, sulfured hydrogen, 
etc.) When accidents happen in summer, place fragrant materials over grill houses and deposit 
basins to cover the odor. 
2. The plant border of Effluent Treatment Plant shall not less than 300 meters away from residential 
villages. 
3. The floating rubbish in the effluent can be stopped by grills. But the sporadic oil in the effluent 
still will flow into the sea. In order to prevent from oil film, we suggest adding effluent floating oil 
isolation facility. 
4. When effluent treatment system does not work and cannot treat the effluent, the plant shall adopt 
effective actions to avoid a large amount of untreated effluent directly being discharged into the sea, 
preventing from serious pollution to surrounding sea area. 
5. After the sludge is stabilized and then dehydrated, water content is less than 80% and reaches the 
requirement of Farm Sludge Pollutant Control Standard (GB4284-84) and can be used in the field. 
6. We suggest that after in-depth treatment of part of effluent, they can be re-used in greening and 
agricultural irrigation, etc. to alleviate the pollution to sea water.  
      
 
Page  132
 
 132
Pre-exam suggestions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaker:                                      Seal: 
                                            Day      Month      Year 
The exam suggestions by the sub-administrative department in charge of environment protection: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaker:                                       Seal: 
                                              Day      Month     Year 
 
 
 
Page  133
 
 133
Examined suggestions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undertaker:                             Seal: 
                                     Day         Month       Year 
 
 
 
Page  134
 
 134
                                              
M. Notes 
1. This report should have the following annexes and charts 
Annex 1.  Setting-up Approval document 
Annex 2.  The other administrative management document connected with environment 
comments 
Chart 1. Project geographical position chart (It should reflect administrative divide, water series, 
pollutant sinker position signature and geographical conditions and so on.) 
Chart 2. Project flat position chart  
 
2.  If this report form cannot explain the pollution made by the project and influence on the 
environment, it should be commented professionally. According to the characteristic of the 
construction project and local environment, one or two of the following should be chosen.  
1) 
Special comment about the atmosphere environment influence.  
2) 
Special comment about the water environment (includes surface water and underground 
water) 
3) 
Special comment about the ecological influence 
4) 
Special comment about the sound influence 
5) 
Special comment about the earth influence 
6) 
Special comment about the solid waste.  
 
 
 
The listed special comments that are not included in the above special comments can be carried 
out according to the requirement in THE ENVIRONMENT INFLUENCE COMMENT 
TECHNOLOGY GUIDE.      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                               
 
Photocopied by Shandong Province Environment Protection Bureau 
 
Page  135
 
 135
 
Xiangshan, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province 
 
Xiangshan County Coastal Belt Administration Center 
 
Construction Items of establishing Jiushan Islands Ocean  
Ecologic Conservation Zone 
 
Ningbo Chaoxiang Marine Life Product Company. Ltd. [Marine algae processing] 
 
Xiangshan Huayi Seafood Co. Ltd. [Seafood processing] 
 
Ningbo Feiri MarineIndustrial Co., Ltd. [Seafood Processing] 
 
Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Company, Ltd. [Seafood Processing 
 
Xiangshan Fishing Trade and Development Co., Ltd. [Seafood wholesale market] 
 
Shipu Seafood Industrial Park [Planned waste treatment facility not financed by the 
  
project and will serve all components in Shipu area] 
 
Page  136
 
 136
 
  
  
 
Evaluation of the Influences of Construction Items on the 
Environment 
 
 
 
 
 
   Project: Xiangshan County Coastal Belt Administration Center  
 
Undertaker: (seal)   Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report Making: July 29, 2003 
   Produced by: National Bureau of Environment Protection 
 
  
                      
 
Page  137
 
 137
  
 
Responsibility Arrangement
 
  
Evaluation Unit: Xiangshan Environment Supervision Station 
 
Principal of Evaluation Unit: Shi Yaqin 
Principal of Project: Ni Jianzhong
 
 
 
Information of Evaluators 
 Name 
speciality 
Technical 
title 
Post Number 
Responsibility 
Signature 
Wan 
Yong 
Environment 
Engineering 
Assistant 
Engineer 
Environment 
Evaluation Post 
No. C20150004 
Report 
Production  
Wan Yong 
Shi 
Yaqing 
Environment 
Engineering 
Engineer 
Environment 
Evaluation Post 
No. C20150001 
Verifier 
Shi Yaqing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation is based upon: 
Page  138
 
 138
1. 
Law of Environment Protection OF P.R. China 
2. 
Law of Ocean Environment Protection OF P.R. China 
3.  Ordinance on Environment Protection Involved in Construction of P.R. China 
4.   Documents of Xiangshan Development and Planning Bureau: Xiangshan Investment 
Planning No. [2003]22  
Notification on Establishing Coastal Belt Administration Center In 
Xiangshan County
 
5.   
Feasibility Report on Establishing Coastal Belt Administration Center In Xiangshan County
 
6.  Bulletin on GB3838-2002
 Standards For Surface Water Environment 
issued by China 
Environment Protection Bureau
 
7. GB3095-1996 
Quality
 
Standards for Environmental Air
 issued by China Environment 
Protection Bureau  
8.  National Standards Of P.R. China:
 
GB3096-93 
Standards for City Environment Noise
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic Information of the Project:
 
Page  139
 
 139
Project Name
 
Coastal Belt Administration Center, Xiangshan County 
Undertaker
 
Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau
 
Principal
 
Huang Cailin 
Contact 
Fang Yue 
Correspondence 
Address 
Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau 
Tel: 13003705705 
Fax 
0574-65982242 
Postal 
Code 
315731 
Construction site
 
Tian’an Road, Dancheng, Xiangshan County 
Authorized by  
Xiangshan Development 
and Planning Bureau  
Authorization No. 
Xiangshan Development 
& Planning  Bureau 
Investment Section Reply 
No. [2003]22 
Character of 
Construction 
New  
Trade classification 
 
Area to be 
occupied
 
 
13.36 Mu 
Forestation  
\1fM
2
\1f
 
 
Total investment 
\1f10,000 yuan\1f
 
2394.59 
Investment in 
environment 
protection 
(included) 
\1f10,000 yuan\1f
 
30 
Ratio of 
investment in 
environment 
protection/total 
investment
 
1.25% 
Capital needed 
according to 
evaluation 
(10,000 yuan) 
 
Expected date of 
operation 
Dec.2004 
Page  140
 
 140
1\1fReasons For The Project 
Xiangshan county. is in the middle region along the east sea coast of Zhejiang provinces. 
With three sides facing the sea, the county enjoys the richness of coastal natural resources, 
and development advantages of ocean fishery and economy. In the county’s Two-Wing 
economy system, ocean fishery plays a significant role in its strategic development. The 
exploitation of the fishing resources along the coast, the adjustment of the production 
structure and the upgrading of the production standards have consequently quickened the 
area’s development pace and led to the economic increase of the county’s fishery. Yet new 
problems arise: ocean fishing resources, particularly the off-shore commercial fishing 
resources are shrinking. Stringent monitoring and protecting measures should be adopted to 
ease off the overexploitation burden on the resources. Pollution is threatening some sea areas. 
Exploitation is exhausting the resources in some parts of the sea. Aquatic species diseases are 
on the rise and quickly spreading in aquatic breeding and, aquatic product is beset with 
quality safety problems. The county is struggling with the problems of raising the public’s 
awareness of the protection of fishing resources and ocean environment, of consolidating 
measures to protect the natural resources of the coastal area and to ensure the rational 
exploitation of resources, and of strengthening aquatic product quality safeguarding, but it is 
in great need of facilities and equipment, and management personnel. Considering these 
problems, and in order to provide better services for the sustainable development of the 
regional economy, the county government has decided to carry out this construction project of 
the coastal regions administration center. 
 
2. Scale and Content of the Project Construction 
The Center Site, with an occupation of 8,907 square meters, will be located on Tian’an 
Road, Dancheng, Xiangshan County. Among the 8,907, namely 13.36 Mu (a tradition 
Chinese unit), 3,975 square meters (approximately 6 Mu) will be used to build city roads. 
That is to say, 4.932 square meters (7.36 Mu or so) land is for the practical use. The main 
building is a six-storey mansion, occupying 4,906 square meters. Among the six storeys, the 
first storey of 1,070 square meters serves as a hall for running papers for the convenience of 
people and information consulting. The second one is used for the location of Fishery 
Resources and Ocean Environment Inspection and Administration Center, occupying 1,111 
square meters. The third floor taking up 592 square meters is functioning as Aquatic Animals’ 
Disease Prevention and Cure Center. Aquatic Product Quality and Safety Control Center is on 
the fourth floor, taking up 592 square meters. On the fifth floor, the Central Office is 
inhabited, with a range of 592 square meters also. The sixth storey enjoys the function as 
Training Center, also occupying 592 square meters. Half-basement with an area of 317 square 
meters is used as a garage. The area of the staircase roof is 40 square meters.Other, 
Equipment mainly is classified into four categories. Inspection Apparatus, Office Necessities, 
Training Equipment and Information Network Communication Commanding System 
Equipment. mong all the facilities, relevant scheme and layout of the 1,470 KW fishery-
policy inspecting ship will be attached. 
The project needs total fund amassment of 23.9459 million RMB, with the equivalent of 
2.892 million US dollars. Sources of Fund: Loan from World Bank is 1.8 million US dollars, 
with the equivalent of 14.904 RMB; local financial rationing fund is 9.0419 million RMB. 
 
 
 
Page  141
 
 141
Map of Location (See appendix):
 
 
 
 
North 
 
 Tian’an                                    Road 
Danhe                 Road 
 The Site of Our Project: 
 Coastal Belt Administration 
Center 
Page  142
 
 142
Brief Introduction to the natural and social 
environment of the project
 
Natural environment
(landform, physiognomy, geology, climate, hydrology, vegetation, 
diversity of biology, etc.)
 
Xiangshan County is located in the middle of the coastal areas of Zhejiang Province, between  
Xiangshan Port and Sanmen bay. The land area of the county is made up of the eastern part of 
Xiangshan Peninsular  and other islands off the coast, bordering the Pacific on the east, 
Cathead Ocean on the south, and Ninghai County on the west. The county is 90 km south to 
north, and 70 km east to west, with the land slanting to the southeast, belonging to low 
highlands. At the South end lies Shipu Port, a famous fishery port in China. In climate, 
Xiangshan is at the margin of subtropical area, enjoying typical subtropical monsoon climate, 
warm, humid, with four distinct seasons. In winter, it stays cold and fine controlled by cold 
air; in spring, with cold air alternating with less high pressures, weather is now rainy, now 
fine; in early summer, with pressure increasing, the weather is stable with occasional local 
thunderstorms bringing in typhoon and big tides and other disastrous weathers; in autumn, 
pressure decreases, resulting in constant rainy-day weather. Generally speaking, the weather 
is characteristic of the following elements as recorded over the years: 
The average temperature: 16.20 C°;  the  lowest temperature: -7.5 C° (as recorded of Jan.16, 
1961); the average wind speed: 5.5M/S; the biggest rainfall: April,1956; the smallest rainfall: 
770.6mm; the average rainfall 1308mm; the average relative humidity: 80%; frostless period of 
the whole year: 235 days  
 
Page  143
 
 143
Brief introduction to social environment (structure of social economy, education, culture, 
projection of cultural relics) 
Xiangshan County has land area of 1,175 km
2  
and sea area of 5,335 km
2 
 with 18 
townships and neighborhood committees. The population is numbered at 534,000. The vast sea 
area is typical of extensive shallow foreshore and long coastal line, which, measured at 800 
kilometers in total, accounts for 1/6 of the coastal line of the whole province. Since the Reform 
and Opening-Door practice, Xiangshan have been basing its development on its traditional 
trades and rich resources, insisting on the “one body and two wings” development strategy, that 
is, having industrial economy as main body and marine economy and construction economy as 
wrings. Guided by this strategy, it has made great efforts to develop agriculture, enhance its 
industry and create characteristic economies. As a result, the whole county has been developing 
steadily in a healthy and rapid way. In 1994, it was listed as one of the 400 counties strongest in 
rural economy; in 1996, it was listed among the “Well-off Counties” of Zhejiang Province.  In 
2002, its gross internal product hit 9,2 billions, and the whole county is flourishing in 
agriculture and striding in industry, arising suddenly in construction and rigorously developing 
in third industry.   
Its agricultural structure is mainly composed of  rice, wheat, bean, cole and cotton. Thanks 
to its long coastal line and extensive water area with rich marine lives, it is a productive fishery 
area, producing quantitative hairtails, yellow-fin-fish, pomfrets, and blackfish. The aquatic 
breeding is mainly prawns, clams, oysters, seaweeds and purple vegetable. Its industry, though 
started late, develops rapidly in textile, mechanism, electronics, food, and construction material. 
Its transportation system is convenient with two sea port, Shipu Sea Port and Hepu Sea Port. In 
recent years, electronic industry develops rapidly and tourist industry is on the rise, especially 
in Songlan Mountain which attracts large numbers of visitors from home and abroad. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status Quo of environment quality
 
Page  144
 
 144
The Status Quo of environment quality and major environmental problems of the project 
area 
(environmental air, ground water, underground water, sound environment, entironment, 
etc.)
 
1.Water environment
 
Wastewater from the site of our project flows into Nanda river which belongs to the 
Nanda River Water System and has its water as the third-class functionally. Xiangshan 
Environment Protection Supervision Station has set up a supervision spot at the Lijia 
Bridge. Statistics of years’ survey indicate that the quality of water at this section is 
beyond the fifth-class, whose dominating pollutants are oxygen-dependent stuff and 
ammonia-nitrogen(NH
3
-N).
 
 
2.Atmospheric environment
 
The air of the project area satisfies the second level of the GB3095-1996
 Quality Standards 
for Environmental Air 
The following table records the atmospheric statistics of June 2-4, 2003. 
                                   Unit: mg/m
3
 
 S02 
NO2 
TSP 
June 2 
<0.003 
0.034 
0.173 
June 3 
<0.003 
0.015 
0.157 
June 4 
<0.003 
0.032 
/ 
average 0.002 
0.027 
0.165 
3.Sound environment
 
Sound environment satisfies the first level of 
Standards for Environment Noise In Cities and 
Towns.
 
    Major environmental problems of the Site: Surface water exceeding the standard of Function 
Zones, namely, losing the ability to admit more pollutants; acid rain increasing by the year.
 
Major targets of environment protection (list the items and their respective protection 
level)
 
 
 
Evaluation Standards 
Page  145
 
 145
 Quality Specification for Environment
 
1. 
Surface Water:  
Based on the third level of 
GB3838-2002 
Standards for Surface Water 
Environment Quality. 
Some specifications are as follows: 
Parameter PH 
Index of 
KMnO
+4 
mg/L 
BOD
5
mg/L
D
O mg/L 
N
H
3
-N mg/L 
Standards 6-9 
 ”
6 
 ”
4 
 •
5 
 ”
1.0 
 
  2.  Atmospheric Air 
Control of atmospheric air of the project area is administered based on the second 
level of GB3095-1996
 Standards for Environmental Air Quality. Here are some 
of its specifications: 
 
Second Level of Standards for Environmental Air 
Quality 
Unit: mg/ m
3
\1fat standard state\1f 
Pollutant N. 
TSP O. 
SO
2
 P. 
NO
2
 
Yearly 
average 
0.20 0.06 0.08 
Daily 
average 
0.30 0.15 0.12 
   
3.  Sound environment:
  
This project is sited at an empty plot to the west of Tian’an Road and to the north 
of Danhe Road.  Noise control is administered referring to the first class of 
GB3096—93 
Standards for Environmental Noise in Cities and Towns
, namely 
daytime: 55dB\1fnighttime 45dB. 
Page  146
 
 146
 Standards for Waste Water Comprehensive Discharge
 
1
\1f
Waste Water 
Waste Water discharge is based on the first level of GB8978-1996 
Standards for 
Waste Water Comprehensive Discharge.
 Some specifications are as follows: (Unit: 
mg/L (except PH)) 
Parameter  
PH 
COD
Cr
 
anion-surface 
activator 
NH
3
-N 
Standards 6-9 
100 
5.0 
15 
2. Noise:
 During the construction, noise control is administered according to  
GB12523-90 
Noise Limitation On Construction site. Here are some of its 
Specifications: 
Noise Limitation On Construction site
   
Noise Equivalent to Leq[dB(A)] 
Noise limitation 
During 
construction 
Major noise sources 
Daytime Nighttim 
Earth and 
rocks 
Bulldozer, grab, loading& 
unloading machine, etc 
75 55 
Piling Pile 
drivers 85 
Not 
allowed to 
work 
Structure 
Concrete mixer, shaking 
tamper, electric saw 
70 55 
Decoration 
Crane, lift trucker, etc 
65 
55 
During the construction, noise control is exercised referring to the first level of 
GB12348-90 
Noise Standards for Environment Around Industry and Enterprises, 
i.e, 
daytime 55dB, nighttime 45dB. The fourth level will be used for the construction sites 
on the sides of the main road, namely, daytime 70dB, nighttime 55dB.
 
 Specifications of general 
control
 
 
 
Page  147
 
 147
 
 
 
Construction Items Analysis 
Profile of the Project (See Maps) 
  
The project will be constructed and undertaken by Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery 
Administration Department. By the time of its completion, the project will be transferred to the 
Coastal Regions Administration Center for duty operation. The Coastal Regions Administration 
Center is to execute the following tasks\1fPerforming the monitoring, investigation, evaluation 
and administration of the fishery resources along the county’s coast line, proposing the 
orientation, approaches, measures and work plans of rational exploitation of the fishery 
resources, and making suggestions concerning the policy-making of the fishery development. 
Performing the monitoring function of the ocean ecological conditions of the county’s coast 
regions, Responsible to the breeding enterprises for the prevention, examination and 
elimination of the aquatic species diseases, Checking and measuring the safety of the county’s 
aquatic product quality Providing training and educational programs to the law-enforcement 
personnel of the fishery resources and ocean environment, the fishery scientific workers and the 
fishing population. 
Coastal Belt Administration Center is shown in the table below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ONLY INTIAL LETTERS OF THE SEVEN DEMPARTMENTS ARE GIVEN AND MORE BRANCHES OF OFFICE AND 
VOCATIONAL WORK DEPARTMENT ARE EXPLAINED IN THE FOLLOWING TWO PARAGRAPHS.  
Xiangshan County Coastal Belt Administration 
C
Office
V.W.
L.E.D 
F.R.O.E.I.A.
A.A.D.P.C.C
A.P.Q.S.C.C   
TRAINING 
CENTER 
Page  148
 
 148
Major pollution sources: 
1
\1f
 
Waste Water 
Mainly from life sewage and laboratory sewage, 1500 tons yearly, 500 tons coming from 
life,100 tons coming from labs and 900 tons from other sources. 
2
\1f
 Exhaust Gas 
Mainly from the analytic processes in the lab such as the utilization of ventilators.  
3
\1f
 Noise 
Mainly from the outside machine of air-conditioners and the gasoline generator while the 
electricity supply is suspended,  approximately 65-75dB 
4.  Solid waste 
Mainly from life garbage, about 19.2 tons per person, if calculated at one kilogram per 
working day and 300 working days per year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Major pollutant formation and their discharge
 
content 
type 
discharging source 
(No.) 
Pollutant 
name 
Concentration before 
processed and 
quantity (unit) 
Concentration 
when discharged 
and quantity (unit) 
Life sewage 
Water 
pollutant 
Lab sewage 
CODcr 
anionic 
surface 
active 
agent, 
ammonia-
nitrogen(
NH
3
-N) 
1500 tons or so of 
waste water will be 
produced, according 
to experience,  
containing  
ammonia-nitrogen 
(NH
3
-N) 30, anionic 
surface active agent 
20 
mg/L,CODcr400mg/
L 
The discharging 
output is about 
1500ton 
CODcr
 ”
100 
mg/L\1f 
anion-surface 
activator
 ”
5 mg/L 
NH
3
-N
 ”
15 mg/L 
Atmospheric 
pollutants 
lab 
Peculiar 
smell 
------ ------ 
Noise 
the outside machine 
of air-conditioners 
and the gasoline 
generator while the 
electricity supply is 
suspended 
Noise 
From 
equipment 
65-75dB 65-75dB 
Page  149
 
 149
Garbage Office 
Life and 
office 
garbage 
About 19.2 tons 
yearly 
About 19.2 tons 
yearly 
Others 
 
Major Influences on Ecology  
   The Site of the Project was originally an agricultural field. After the construction, the ecology 
will be irreversibly changed. In order to improve the regional ecological surroundings, green 
belts will be set up to update the office environment.
 
 
The overall implementation of our project.   
First, we can grasp the current state and change of the chief economic fishery resources in 
coastal areas of Xiangshan County and East Sea areas. By doing so, we can provide accurate 
and detailed gist to guide fishery production activities and to protect and manage fishery 
resources, and then we can take some relevant effective measures. Second, we are able to know 
about the state and trend of ocean environmental quality in Xiangshan coastal belt and its 
neighborhood. This is of critical importance to make a macro policy of Sea environment 
protection and administration. Third, we can at our earliest time get the  aquatic products’ 
morbid state and state of diseases in aquatic breeding regions. So, we can provide a powerful 
backing for the healthy development of aquatic production breeding industry. Fourth, With it, a 
sound and strong guarantee can be found on the way to promoting standard production and 
putting environment-protection aquatic products (green aquatic products) into markets. Thus, 
we can practically and effectively implement fishery resource cultivation and protection, ocean 
ecology protection and the healthy development strategy of fishery industry. Meanwhile, 
management staff, sci-tech staff and fishermen will be trained and educated systematically to 
improve their practicing qualities and raise their awareness of protecting the ocean ecology. 
Also, the project will lead the public awareness of environment—protecting the sea and 
protecting our surroundings—to its maximum. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  150
 
 150
Analyses of influences on environment\1f 
Influences of construction on environment\1f 
During the construction period, engineering mainly concerns earth and rocks, piling, 
structures, wall building, decoration, transportation and pipe laying. The major pollutants are 
construction wastes and noises made by mechanic operation. The rainwater running through 
construction site will affect the ground water environment. The granulated stone and cement, 
loading and unloading of lime , casting of construction materials, laying up the houses and the 
construction site will stir up dust. During the construction period, the construction site should 
be sprayed every day, more frequently during the monsoon season, reducing the negative 
effects on environment. Because the construction is to last 16 months,
 
In addition to following 
routine stipulation, the construction should have a noon break during the summer time. The 
construction workers should be educated to carry out civilized operation, not making noise, 
keeping construction site clean, heaping at given places, clearing life garbage timely, not 
throwing randomly, Reducing the disturbance to the neighboring residents to its minimum. 
If there is need for noisy operation at night, application forms should be filled out and 
submitted to the environment authority for approval beforehand. Only with 
Permission to Work 
at Night,
 can there be night operation, and it should be carried out according to the 
requirements in the permission, reducing noise to the minimum. 
Page  151
 
 151
Influences on environment when it begin to operate\1f 
1
\01
 
Effects of waste water on environment
 
After the project is constructed, wastewater comes mainly from life, labs and other waste 
water, with a yearly total of 1500 tons, waste water from life being mainly pollutant factors 
CODcr, anionic surface active agent, ammonia-nitrogen(NH
3
-N), etc..  Sewage from labs 
has mixed components, containing a lot of organic and inorganic matters. Nanda River can 
no longer permit any pollutant. All the wastewater must be treated to reach the standards for 
disposal. The detailed measures are as in the following table. 
2. Influence of waste gas 
Lab analysis will turn out some peculiar smells, mainly from the slight volatilization of 
reagents. Because it is of low concentration, most of them disperse quickly, having no harm 
to the environment. However, some highly-concentrated fumes need ventilators to remove. 
With the aid of those ventilators, they will not be harmful to the environment. 
3. 
Influence of Noise  
Noise mainly comes from the outside machine of air-conditioners and the gasoline generator 
while electricity supply is suspended, about 65-75dB. Sound insulation and distance will 
make it attenuate to no harm to the environment. 
4. 
Solid Waste
 
    Solid waste is mainly from daily consumption and office operation and will be collected and 
transferred, frequently as possible, to Environment Sanitation Service for disposal. 
5. Supervision Boats
 will also produce solid waste and wastewater, impairing the environment. 
Substantial measures are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preventive measures to be adopted by the project and their target effects
\1f
 
Contents
 
Types
 
Discharging sources 
(No.)
 
Pollutants
 
Preventive measures
 
Target effects
 
Page  152
 
 152
Life sewage 
CODcr 
anionic 
surface 
active 
agent, 
ammonia-
nitrogen 
(NH
3
-N) 
After being sifted by the 
case bar, it will be 
collected and deposited 
followed by the 
treatment using 
facultative anaerobe and 
aerobe till it reaches the 
standards to be 
discharged. All the 
sewage water will be 
introduced to a sewage 
processing factory to be 
constructed as part of the 
project. 
Water 
pollutant
 
Sewage from lab 
Quantitativ
e of 
organic 
and 
inorganic 
matter 
Cool it directly in the 
lab, and use it for 
forestation. Quantitative 
waste water will be 
collected in barrels and 
sent to waste water 
disposal factory or a 
proper factory to be 
processed and drained. 
Satisfying the 
requirements 
for 
environment 
protection 
enacted by the 
relative 
national 
authority 
having little 
influence on 
the 
environment 
Pollutants 
harming 
atmosphere
 
Lab 
Peculiar 
smells 
Let into high sky 
through natural aeration 
and pipe ventilation 
Having little 
influence on 
the 
environment\1f 
Noise 
The outside machine 
of air-conditioners  & 
the gasoline generator 
while electricity 
supply is suspended 
Noise from 
the 
equipment 
The outside machine of 
air-conditioners requires 
maintenance. For the 
very noisy ones, we 
offer the timely repair to 
reduce the noise; The 
chamber generator will 
be set away from 
roadside and residential 
areas with effective 
sound insulators.  
Satisfying the 
requirements 
for 
environment 
protection 
enacted by the 
relative 
national 
authority, 
having little 
influence on 
the 
environment 
Garbage
 
Offices 
Garbage 
from life 
and offices 
Collected and treated by 
Department of 
Environmental 
Sanitation 
Have little 
influence on 
the 
environment 
Page  153
 
 153
Others
 
Supervision Boats 
Garbage 
from life, 
wastewater 
Life garbage is collected 
and treated by 
Department of 
Environmental 
Sanitation; sewage is 
disposed by grease water 
separator, making sure it 
satisfy the requirements 
before drainage 
Satisfying the 
requirements 
for 
environment 
protection 
stipulated  by 
the relative 
national 
authority, 
having little 
influence on 
the 
environment 
Measures for Ecology Protection and Target Effects:  
The Site of the construction was originally an agricultural field. After the construction, the 
ecology will be irreversibly changed. Green belts will be built up around and inside the Site. 
Plants consuming less water or trees in favor of the local climate will be preferable. Meanwhile, 
all the bare plots will be transformed into green belt. Chambers will be spotted with some 
decoration and ornamental plants or flowers to formulate a favorable and enjoyable office 
surroundings.  
 
 
 
 
Page  154
 
 154
Conclusions and Suggestions
  
This Project is entitled Xiangshan County Coastal Belts Administration Center. After its 
construction, administration on the coastal areas will step on to a new stage. Law enforcement 
will be enhanced by the increase of transportation and communication tools. Fishery Resources 
and Ocean Environment Supervision and Administration Center will be equipped with 
specialized supervision boats and more advanced analysis apparatus, providing more accurate 
and more extensive monitoring, and thus will be able to provide better serve for the massive 
aquatic product breeders and the enforcement department. Aquatic Animals’ Disease 
Prevention and Cure Center will also have an unprecedented development. With the addition of 
many necessary machinery and equipments and exclusive labs, the Center can carry on a 
systematic study on disease prevention and treatment, uncover the causes of some previous 
aquatic animals diseases and can offer sound technical support for the aquatic breeding industry 
of Xiangshan County. Also, Aquatic Products Quality Control Center will be updated with 
advanced apparatuses and equipment to enhance the quality control, provide safe technical 
support, and promote a standardized development of Xiangshan aquatic industry. Thus, the 
quality of the aquatic products will be raised to meet the market demand home and abroad and 
to boost domestic markets and export output as well. Meanwhile, the Training Center will 
devote space and equipment for all kinds of trainings for the management staff, sci-tech staff, 
fishermen and others who are concerned about the protection of the ocean environment. All in 
all, by exerting the Administration Center to its utmost, ocean ecology will be under protection, 
reasonable ocean exploitation will be guided to ensure the sustainable development of ocean 
and industry. 
Currently, quality of atmospheric and acoustic environment in the construction areas of the 
project is nice enough to meet the requirements of different functions in different parts.  
1. Wastewater is mainly from people’s daily consumption, labs and other sources. After being 
sifted by the case bar, it will be collected and deposited followed by treatment with  
facultative anaerobe and aerobe and then be discharged. All the sewage water will be 
conducted to a sewage-processing factory to be processed. The cooled water in the lab can be 
directly released; however, quantities of waste liquid must be stored in special barrels to be 
dispatched to relevant enterprises or sewage factory before being dumped.  
2. Exhaust gas is mainly from labs. It will be sent off to the sky through the ventilating pipes, 
causing no damage to the surroundings nearby.  
3. Noise of 65-75dB is mainly from the outside machine of the air-conditioners and the gasoline 
generators while electricity is cut off. Noise insulation measures will be adopted; distance will 
Page  155
 
 155
also reduce it to some degree.  
4.  Solid waste is mainly from life and offices and will be collected and treated by 
Department of Environmental Sanitation. 
5.  Garbage from supervision boats collected and treated by Department of Environmental 
Sanitation; sewage is disposed by grease water separator, to make it satisfi the 
requirements before drainage and have no harm to the environment. 
   
   As long as all the laws and standards are strictly implemented and all environment-
protection measures are put into effect, ocean ecology will be safely protected and 
sustainable development of fishery industry will be promoted.  Meanwhile, improving staff 
member’s awareness of environment-protection will also contribute greatly to shaping 
Xiangshan County into an economically developed county with an excellent ecology. 
 
 
 
   
Page  156
 
 156
Examination and Supervision Comments: 
 
The report of 
Evaluation of Influences of Construction Items on the Environment
 
written by supervision station of Xiangshan County Bureau of Environment Protection 
has been carefully studied. We thereby agree with the conclusion and suggestions. 
The construction undertaker must administer “three meanwhiles” system,  putting 
into effect all the measures of environment protection, seeing to it that life sewage is 
recycled for forestation and lab sewage is not let out.  
 
We hereby authorize the project. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Seal)
 
 Xiangshan County Bureau of Environment Protection
 
Date:
 
August 13,2003 
 
 
 
Page  157
Application for Environment Protection Plan for 
Project Construction   
Apply unit\1fseal\1f\1f                                     Form writer \1fsignature\1f\1f                    committed by\1fsignature\1f\1f     
    
Project name  
Xiangshan County Coastal Belts 
Administration Center  
Location of  construction  
North  of  Danhe Road, West  of  Tian’an Road,  Dancheng,  
Xiangshan County
  
Scale and content 
of the construction 
Construct a 4906-floor-area complex of 
Administrative Station and install it  with 
necessary equipment  
character of construction 
new 
trade  
Administrative classification of 
Environment protection 
Production of the application form  
Total 
investment
\1f
10,000 
yuan
\1f
 
2394.59 
Investment in environment 
protection\1f10,000 yuan\1f 
30 
Percentage of 
investment\1f%\1f
1.25%
 
Applicant Unit 
Xiangshan Bureau of Development and 
Planning 
Approval No. 
Xiangshan 
Investment Planning 
Section Reply No. 
[2003]22  
Construction 
starting date
March 
2003 
Construction item 
Unit examining 
and approving the 
item 
Xiangshan Bureau of Environment Protection 
Approval No. 
 
Approval time 
 
Unit name 
Xiangshan 
Bureau of Ocean 
and Fishery 
Contact 
phone 
13003705705
Unit 
Xiangshan 
Environment 
Supervision Station 
Contact phone 
65718706 
Address 
Xiangshan 
Bureau of Ocean 
and Fishery 
Postal 
coast 
315731 
Address 
191 Xinhuan Road 
Postal No.  
315700 
Construction 
undertaker 
Legal person 
Huang Cailin 
Contact 
Fang Yue 
Evaluation Unit 
Certificate No. 
 
Evaluation fee 
 
Page  158
 
 
2
Level of 
environment 
quality 
Environmental Air
\1f
GB 3095-1996   surface water
\1f
Level 2   Environmental noise
\1f
GB 3096-93  Type 1 see water
\1f
GB 3097-1997   
soil
\1f
          others
\1f
 
status quo of Environment of the 
project area 
Environmentally 
Sensitive items  
\1f
Protected drinking water sources      
\1f
Natural conservation area          
\1f
places of interest        
\1f
forest  parks        
\1f
Protected farmland        
\1f
protected areas of ecological functions                
\1f
 area liable to loss of water and earth      
\1f
ecologically sensitive and fragile area       
\1f
densely-populated area 
\1f
protected cultural relics     
\1f
three rivers, two lakes, two controlled areas    
\1f
 three gorges reservoirs  
construction
\1f
completed 
and under 
construction
\1f
 
Planned construct  
Total construction engineering 
\1ffinished + in process + planned\1f  
Pollutants  
Quantity of practically 
discharged water 
Discharged quantity 
allowed  
Practically discharged 
quantity 
Verified total discharge 
quantity 
Expect3ed  
concentration of  
pollutant 
Allowed  
concentration 
quantity 
Self-
diminishing 
quantity  
Total 
expected 
quantity 
Verified
total
 
discharge 
tit
”new-for-
old 
diminishing 
quantity  
Expect
ed
 
total
 
discharge 
tit
Verified 
total 
discharge 
quantity 
Discharge
 
fluctuation 
tit
Local equilibration 
replacing diminishing 
Wastewater 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
0.15 
  0.15 
      
Chemically needed 
oxygen  
  
 
 
 ”
400
 ”
100 0.6 0.45 
0.15 
 
 
   
 
ammonia-
nitrogen 
(NH
3
-N) 
  
 
 
 ”
30 
 ”
15 0.045 
0.0225 
0.0225 
 
 
   
 
Anion surface active 
agent 
  
 
 
 ”
20 
 ”
5 0.03 
0.2925 
0.0075 
 
 
   
 
Waste gas 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
Sulphur dioxide* 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
looting*  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
Industrial powder* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Pollutant discharge t control
\1f
industrial construction 
items details
\1f
Nitrogen oxide 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Page  159
 
 
3
Industrial solid 
waste* 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
o
th
er 
pollutant  
related to the 
project
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Notes
\1f  
1. * pollutant controlled by the country in quantity during the “tenth -five” years  
 2.. discharge quantity increase and decrease\1f\1f+\1fincrease\1f-\1fdecrease 
3
\01
 ure units\1fWaste water discharge quantity——10,000tons/year\1fWaste gas discharge——10,000 m
3
 (Cubic 
Tons10,000biaoM
3
/year\1fIndustrial garbage——10,000tons/year\1f Concentration of pollutant in sewage ——mg/liter\1fConcentration 
of pollutant discharged into the air——mg/m
3
\1fQuantity of waste water——ton/year\1fPollutants into the air——ton/year 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  160
 
 
4
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f                                                  \1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f                                             \1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f     
    
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
 
Xiangshan County Coastal Belts 
Administration Center  
\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
North 
 of
  Danhe Road, West 
 of 
 Tian’an Road,  Dancheng,  
Xiangshan County 
\1f \1f\1f\1f \1f\1f \1f
 
Construct a 4906-floor-area complex of 
Administrative Station and install it  with 
necessary equipment
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
 
 
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f
 
\1f \1f\1f\1f \1f\1f \1f
 
2394.59 \1f
\1f
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f 
30 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f\1f%\1f 1.25%
 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f \1f\1f\1f[2003]22\1f \1f
\1f
\1f
\1f 
2003\1f3\1f 
\1f \1f \1f \1f 
\1f \1f\1f\1f \1f\1f \1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f  
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f 
 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f
 
130037057
05 
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f \1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f \1f
\1f
\1f
\1f 
65718706 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f
 
 \1f
\1f
\1f
\1f 
\1f\1f\1f191\1f 
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f 
315700 
\1f\1f\1f\1f 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
  
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f
\1f
 
\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f  
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f 
 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
GB 3095-1996 
\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f
GB3838-2002 
\1f\1f
  
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
GB 3096-93  1
\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f
         
\1f\1f\1f
          
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
      
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
          
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
        
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
        
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
            
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
               
\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
         
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
       
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
      
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
      
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
     
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
+
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f+\1f\1f+\1f\1f\1f  
\1f\1f
\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
“\1f\1f\1f\1f”\1f
\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f
\1f\1f
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f\1f\1f 
\1f\1f
 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
0.15  0.15  
 
 
 
 
 
\1f\1f
\1f\1f
\1f
* 
 
    
 ”
400 
 ”
100 0.6 0.45 0.15 
 
  
 
 
 
\1f
  
  
  
\1f
* 
    
 ”
30 
 ”
15 0.045 
0.0225 
0.0225 
   
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
 
   
 ”
20 
 ”
5 0.03 
0.2925 
0.0075 
   
 
 
 
\1f\1f
 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
   
   
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f
\1f
* 
 
  
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
\1f
   
 
\1f
* 
 
    
    
   
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f
\1f
* 
 
    
    
   
 
 
 
\1f
\1f\1f\1f
 
 
    
    
   
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
* 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
   
   
 
 
 
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f
 
\1f
\1f
\1f
\1f
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
Page  161
 
 
5
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
     
 
 
 
 
 
\1f
\1f  
1\1f*\1f“\1f\1f”\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f 
 2\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f+\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f-\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f 
3\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f\1f/\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f/\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f\1f/\1f\1f \1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f\1f/\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f\1f/\1f\1f\1f
\1f
\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f/\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f\1f——\1f 
Page  162
Evaluation of Influences of Construction Items on the 
Environment  
 
 
 
 
 
Project: Construction Items of Establishing Jiushan  
Islands Ocean Ecologic Conservation Zone 
Undertaker: (seal) Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          
             
 
  
          
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
Completed on July 31, 2003 
     Made by National Bureau of Environment Protection
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  163
 
 2
Responsibility Arrangement  
  
 
Evaluation Unit: Xiangshan Environment Supervision Station 
Principal of Evaluation Unit: Shi Yaqin 
Principal of Project: Ni Jianzhong 
 
 
 
Information of Evaluators 
 Name 
speciality 
Technical 
title 
Post Number 
Responsibility 
Signature 
Wan 
Yong 
Environment 
Engineering 
Assistant 
Engineer 
Environment 
Evaluation Post 
No. C20150004 
Report 
Production  
Wan Yong 
Shi 
Yaqin 
Environment 
Engineering 
Engineer 
Environment 
Evaluation Post 
No. C20150001 
Verifier  
Shi Yaqin 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  164
 
 3
 
 
Evaluation is based upon: 
 
3. 
Law of Environment Protection OF P.R. China 
4. 
Law of Ocean Environment Protection OF P.R. China 
5. 
Ordinance on Environment Protection Involved in Construction of P.R. China 
6. 
Documents of Xiangshan Development and Planning Bureau: Xiangshan Investment 
Planning No. [2003]51  
Decision on Establishing Jiushan Islands Ocean Ecologic 
Conservation Zone In Xiangshan County 
7. 
Feasibility Report on Establishing Jiushan Islands Ocean Ecologic Conservation Zone In 
Xiangshan County  
8. 
Document issued by Zhejiang Province (Zhejiang Gov. Document No. 
[2003]60
): 
Zhejiang Gov. Decision on Establishing Jiushan Islands Ocean Ecologic Conservation 
Zone In Xiangshan County at Provincial Level 
9. 
National Standards Of P.R. China: 
GB3097-1997  Standards for Sea Water Quality
 
 
10. 
Document of Ningbo Environment Protection Bureau:  Ningbo Environment Section No. 
[1999]070: Notice on Implementing 
Zhejiang  Gov.  Notice on Alongshore Ocean 
Environmental Function planning (Adjusted)
 
11. GB3095-1996 
Standards for Environmental Air
 issued by China Environment Protection 
Bureau  
12. 
National Standards Of P.R. China:
 
GB3096-93 
Noise Limitation for City Environment 
and 
GB12523-90
 Noise Limitation for Construction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  165
 
 4
Basic Information of the Project 
 
Project 
Construction Items of Establishing Jiushan Islands Ocean Ecologic 
Conservation Zone 
Undertaker 
Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau 
Principal  
Huang Cailin 
Contact 
Fang Yue 
Correspondence 
Address 
Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau 
Tel: 13003705705 
Fax 
0574-65982242 
Postal 
Code 
315731 
Construction site 
Jiushan Islands Conservation Zone and Songlan Mountain  
Authorized by  
Xiangshan Development 
and Planning Bureau  
Authorization No. 
Xiangshan 
Development & 
Planning  Bureau 
Investment Section 
Reply No. [2003]51 
Character of 
Construction 
 
New  
Trade classification 
 
Area to be 
occupied 
3 mu for Administrative 
Station  
Forestation  
\1fM
2
\1f 
 
 
Total investment 
\1f10,000 yuan\1f 
603.25  
Investment in 
environment 
protection 
(included) 
\1f10,000 yuan\1f 
60 
 Ratio of 
investment in 
environment 
protection/total 
investment  
9.95% 
Capital needed 
according to 
evaluation 
(10,000 yuan) 
 
Expected date of 
operation 
Dec.2004 
Page  166
 
 5
1.  Reasons for the Project 
Jiushan Islands, Xiangshan, located at the southernmost end of Zhoushan Islands, is a 
famous archipelago made up of 76 small islands, 7,300 square meters in area, the main 
island of being 4,080 Km2. The Islands and its neighboring area enjoy an advantageously 
unique location: it is at the junctures of Zhoushan fishery site, Damuyang fishery site, 
Fishing Mountain fishery site, and Fishery sites of Eastern Sea east of Southern Zhejiang, 
favored by the warm current from Taiwan and water system along the coast. It is a 
productive sea area abundant in bait creatures, an ideal habitat and breeding place for 
numerous sea creatures. According to the investigation made on the islands resources, the 
major island itself boasts of 54 species of fish, including 25 kinds of carapace fishes,  7 
kinds of molusc, in addition to big yellow-fin-tuna, small shaol, Man needless cuttlefish,  
hairtail, and small yellow-fin-tuna. As a result of its richness in organic food and biological 
resources, and small shaol and cuttlefish which are the major food of cow fish---- the 
second-class national protected animals----the area and its neighboring sea areas abound in 
cowfish.  
In addition to the favorable natural conditions for marine animals as mentioned above, 
the reservation zone enjoys favorable climate, varied physiognomy with rich vegetation, 
attracting many flying creatures to inhabit and breed, including one kind of the second -
class nationally protected bird, and seven kinds of provincially protected birds. The 
vegetation is varied and flourishing, with wild phoenix tree as the major type, the 
nationally rare plants including Putuo Mountain camphor and various herbs and ornamental 
plants such as honeysuckle,  South Sky Star, lilies, and Shanhuangjing camellia.  
The ecologic environment of the area is, on the whole, well-maintained. However, 
with the development of economy and the improvement of exploitation capacity, the 
natural resources on the islands are being randomly exploited and damaged, the plants and 
animals are being  more and more immoderately picked and captured. So it is imperative to 
strengthen the conservation and protection of the resources in the area and exercise 
sustainable utilization, and it should not be delayed in doing it.  
 
Page  167
 
 6
2.  Scale and contents of the project 
The conservation zone Jishan Islands are located at the south end of Zhoushan Islands, 18.5 
kilometers off Changzuitou, Juexi Town, the closest land area. They are  divided into nuclear 
zone, 5884 hectares, buffer area, 1,1375 hectare, and experiment area, 97,691 hectare, 
respectively accounting for 6.6%, 10.8 and 82.6% of the total.  The contents of the project 
include: 
a.
 setting up twelve suspended signs, twenty buoys and can buoys; twenty-nine 
prohibition signs, as well as some  wire fences, stakes, pickets, and  platforms for 
administration observation\1f
b.
 building up a administrative station and a small accessory dock 
for trafficking. The main building is 1,500 m
2
 in floor area with three floors, the first floor to 
be used as display hall for sea samples and exhibition hall for ocean knowledge, the second 
floor to be used as monitoring and analysis center, third floor functions as offices;  
c.
 
equipping the area and Administration Station with necessary facilities and office equipment. 
The project plans to apply for ten positions of civil servants and raise 6,032,500 yuan RMB 
as total investment, 6,032,500 yuan of which from the World Bank, 268,000 yuan from the 
local government. Administration outlay is also to be financed by the local Financial Bureau.  
 
 
 
Page  168
 
 7
Map of location (see appendix) 
                                                                
east
Page  169
 
 8
Brief Introduction to the natural and social environment of the project 
Natural environment
(landform, physiognomy, geology, climate, hydrology, vegetation, 
diversity of biology, etc.) 
Xiangshan County is located in the middle of the coastal areas of Zhejiang Province, between  
Xiangshan Port and Sanmen bay. The land area of the county is made up of the eastern part of 
Xiangshan Peninsular  and other islands off the coast, bordering the Pacific on the east, 
Cathead Ocean on the south, and Ninghai County on the west. The county is 90 km south to 
north, and 70 km east to west, with the land slanting to the southeast, belonging to low 
highlands. At the South end lies Shipu Port, a famous fishery port in China. The 
Administrative Station is sited in Songlan Mountain overlooking Damu Ocean to the 
southeast of central town of Xiangshan, belonging administratively to Dandong and Juexi. 
Songlan Mountain is a famous coastal resort with sea area of 40.12 km
2
,of which 23 km
2  
is 
water area and 2 km
2
 is islands and islets.  
It has an easy access to the town center and South Jiushan, the former being 4 km
  
off  and the 
latter being 20 km off. The sea area of Jiushan Islands is an ideal habitat and breading place 
for sea creatures, boasting of rich resources of seedlings of big yellow-fin-tuna, needless Man 
cuttlefish, baits and their seedling. It also has reef biogeocenose ecosystem, suitable for 
cowfish and black-tailed seagulls. In climate, Xiangshan is at the margin of subtropical area, 
enjoying typical subtropical monsoon climate, warm, humid, with four distinct seasons. In 
winter, it stays cold and fine controlled by cold air; in spring, with cold air alternating with 
less high pressures, weather is now rainy, now fine; in early summer, with pressure 
increasing, the weather is stable with occasional local thunderstorms bringing in typhoon and 
big tides and other disastrous weathers; in autumn, pressure decreases, resulting in constant 
rainy-day weather. Generally speaking, the weather is characteristic of the following elements 
as recorded over the years: 
The average temperature: 16.20 C°;  the  lowest temperature: -7.5 C° (as recorded of Jan.16, 
1961); the average wind speed: 5.5M/S; the biggest rainfall: April,1956; the smallest rainfall: 
770.6mm; the average rainfall 1308mm; the average relative humidity: 80%; frostless period of 
the whole year: 235 days  
Page  170
 
 9
Brief introduction to social environment (structure of social economy, education, culture, 
projection of cultural relics)  
Xiangshan County has land area of 1,175 km
2  
and sea area of 5,335 km
2 
 with 18 
townships and neighborhood committees. The population is numbered at 534,000. The vast sea 
area is typical of extensive shallow foreshore and long coastal line, which, measured at 800 
kilometers in total, accounts for 1/6 of the coastal line of the whole province. Since the Reform 
and Opening-Door practice, Xiangshan have been basing its development on its traditional 
trades and rich resources, insisting on the “one body and two wings” development strategy, that 
is, having industrial economy as main body and marine economy and construction economy as 
wrings. Guided by this strategy, it has made great efforts to develop agriculture, enhance its 
industry and create characteristic economies. As a result, the whole county has been developing 
steadily in a healthy and rapid way. In 1994, it was listed as one of the 400 counties strongest in 
rural economy; in 1996, it was listed among the “Well-off Counties” of Zhejiang Province.  In 
2002, its gross internal product hit 9,2 billions, and the whole county is flourishing in 
agriculture and striding in industry, arising suddenly in construction and rigorously developing 
in third industry.   
Its agricultural structure is mainly composed of  rice, wheat, bean, cole and cotton. Thanks 
to its long coastal line and extensive water area with rich marine lives, it is a productive fishery 
area, producing quantitative hairtails, yellow-fin-fish, pomfrets, and blackfish. The aquatic 
breeding is mainly prawns, clams, oysters, seaweeds and purple vegetable. Its industry, though 
started late, develops rapidly in textile, mechanism, electronics, food, and construction material. 
Its transportation system is convenient with two sea port, Shipu Sea Port and Hepu Sea Port. In 
recent years, electronic industry develops rapidly and tourist industry is on the rise, especially 
in Songlan Mountain which attracts large numbers of visitors from home and abroad.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status Quo of environment quality 
Page  171
 
 10
The Status Quo of environment quality and major environmental problems of the project 
area 
(environmental air, ground water, underground water, sound environment, entironment, 
etc.)
  
1. Water 
environment 
The location of the project borders on Atlantic; the seawater functions as the first-class. In 
recent years, the water quality is worsened, some index exceeding the standards. But with 
the setting up of one after another land sewage disposing factories, sea water alongshore 
will improve fundamentally.         
2\1f Atmospheric environment 
The air of the project area satisfies the second level of the GB3095-1996
 Quality 
Standards for Environmental Air
  
The following table records the atmospheric statistics of June 2-4, 2003. Unit: mg/m
3
 
 S02 
NO2 
TSP 
June 2 
<0.003 
0.034 
0.173 
June 3 
<0.003 
0.015 
0.157 
June 4 
<0.003 
0.032 
/ 
average 0.002  0.027  0.165 
3. Sound environment 
Sound environment satisfies the first level of 
Standards for Environment Noise In Cities 
and Towns. 
Major problems with the environment: The quality of the sea waters have been worsened 
somewhat, some index exceeding the Standards for Functional Sea areas, and acid rain 
increasing by the year. 
Major targets of environment protection (list the items and their respective protection 
level) 
1
\01
 Jiushan Islands Ocean Ecologic Conservation Zone at provincial level 
2
\1f
 
Songlanshan seashore holiday resort, 
 
 
Page  172
 
 11
 
 
Evaluation is based on the following standards 
 
 Quality Specification for Environment 
1
\1f
 Sea 
water 
  Quality control of sea water is administered referring to the first level of GB3097-
1997
Standards for Sea Water Quality
. The following are some of its 
specifications:  
parameter PH 
Chemically 
needed 
oxygen mg/L 
BOD
5
mg/L
DO 
mg/L 
Non-
ionic ammonia 
mg/L 
standards 
7.8-
8.5 
 ”
2 
 ”
1 \1f6 
 ”
1.0 
 
2. 
Atmospheric Air   
Control of atmospheric air of the project area is administered based on the second 
level of GB3095-1996
 Standards for Environmental Air Quality. Here are some 
of its specifications: 
 
Second Level of Standards for Environmental Air 
Quality 
Unit: 
mg/ m
3
\1fat standard state\1f 
Pollutant Q. 
TSP R. 
SO
2
 S. 
NO
2
 
Yearly 
average 
0.20 0.06 0.08 
Daily 
average 
0.30 0.15 0.12 
3. Acoustic 
environment 
Although this project is sited in Songlan Mountain 
(the former hydrometric 
station) and Jiushan Islands, noise control is administered referring to the first level 
of GB3096—93
 Standards for Environmental Noise in Cities and Towns
, namely 
daytime: 55dB\1fnighttime 45dB\1f 
 
 
Page  173
 
 12
 Standards for pollutant discharge 
1. Waste 
water 
The project is close to Dama Ocean which is suitable for fishery. Waste water is 
not allowed to let.  
2. Noise 
 
During the construction, noise control is administered according to 
 GB12523-90 
Noise Limitation On Construction site. Here are some of its Specifications: 
Noise Limitation On Construction site
   
Noise Equivalent to Leq[dB(A)]
 
Noise limitation 
During 
construction 
Major noise sources 
Daytime Nighttime 
Earth and 
rocks 
Bulldozer, grab, loading& 
unloading machine, etc. 
75 55 
Piling Pile 
drivers 85 
Not 
allowed to 
work 
Structure 
Concrete mixer, shaking 
tamper, electric saw  
70 55 
Decoration 
Crane, lift trucker, etc. 
65 
55 
    When operation begins, noise control is administered according to the first type of 
GB12348—90 
Noise Limitation for Industrial Factories
 \1f\1fnamely, daytime: 
55dB\1fnighttime: 45dB.
 
 Specifications of general 
control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  174
 
 13
Construction items analyses 
Brief introduction to the construction engineering (see maps)  
Xiangshan Ocean and Fishery Bureau undertake the project. After its construction, the 
Administrative Station will be staffed with 10 personnel performing administrative duties. The 
ratio of technical personnel to administrators and managers is 4\1f4\1f2. It will be installed with 
advanced equipment, including speedboats and transportation vehicles for inspection and 
supervision and office equipment. Those infrastructure serve to ensure better monitoring and 
management and enhance the protection of and research into various biological resources, reef 
resources, cultural resources, natural resources and so on. Various endangered and rare 
biological populations will be restored; benign circulation of ecosystem guaranteed; diversified 
biology maintained, resulting in the formation of species resource bank. After that, it will apply 
for provincial ecologic conservation zone. 
   
Process of Establishing Conservation Zone and its Operation Diagram: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apply for 
the 
establishme
nt of ocean 
Set up 
Administrativ
e Station of 
the 
Conservation 
Set up suspension 
b
oards, buoys and 
can buoys 
prohibition 
boards, and 
platform for 
inspection and 
Publicize 
relative laws 
and 
knowledge  
carry out 
routine 
research and 
administration
Realize the 
protection and 
restoration of 
ecology in the 
zone 
Page  175
 
 14
Major pollution sources 
1.  
Waste water 
mainly from life liquid waste and laboratory sewage, 250 tons yearly, 100 tons coming 
from life, 50 tons coming from labs and 50 tons from other sources. 
2.
  Exhaust gas
 
  mainly from slight volatilization of reagents during the chemical analyses in the lab 
3.
  Noise
 
mainly from the outside machine of air-conditioners, about 65-75dB 
4.
  Solid waste
 
mainly from life garbage, about 3 tons per person, if calculated at one kilogram per 
working day and 300 working days per year. 
 
 
 
Major pollutant formation and their discharge 
 
content 
type 
discharging 
source (No.) 
Pollutant name 
Concentration before 
processed and quantity (unit) 
Concentration 
when 
discharged and 
quantity (unit)  
Life sewage 
Water 
pollutant 
Lab sewage 
CODcr anionic 
surface active 
agent, ammonia-
nitrogen(NH
3
-N)
250 tons or so of waste water 
will be produced, according to 
experience,  containing  
ammonia-nitrogen (NH
3
-N) 
30, anionic surface active 
agent 20 
mg/L,CODcr400mg/L 
Not allowed to 
let 
 
Atmospheric 
pollutants 
lab Peculiar 
smell 
------ 
------ 
Noise 
Outside 
machine of 
air-
conditioners 
Noise From 
equipment  
65-75dB 65-75dB 
Garbage Office 
Life and office 
garbage 
About 3 tons yearly  
About 3 tons 
yearly 
Page  176
 
 15
others  
 
 
 
 
Major influence on ecology   
The administrative station is sited at location of the former hydrometric station. Its construction 
will make great change to the appearance of the place. Proper trees should be planted in all clearing 
space to improve office environment and the local  ecology. The construction of the small dock will 
cause irreversible changes to the original coastal line and view, therefore we suggest using the 
original dock.  If a new one has to be constructed, it should be scientifically designed and 
constructed and its location should be well selected, causing as little damage as possible to the 
original rock coastal line, so that the harmonious scenes in Songlan Mountain can be maintained.  
   After the construction, the station will be staffed with professional technical, administrative, 
management personnel, who will administer unprecedented perennial monitoring, analyses and 
researches of the ecologic environment, set up historical files of resources and environment of the 
zone, research into the technology of the breeding and reproducing of rare animal and endangered 
sea animals. Random and excessive capture and felling, capture of parent fish, capture by bombing, 
electrify and other illegal practices will all be punished and prohibited. 
   The station will also carry out propaganda work to publicize the relative laws and stipulations to 
enhance public’s sense of environment protection, making every person in the area an environment 
protector. In nuclear area, all human activities will be prohibited; in buffer zone and experimental 
zone, proper development activities can be carried out, such as ecologic travels, popular science 
educations, researches and other activities intended as self-supporting, untill the realization of the 
ocean ecologic protection and its ecologic balance.  
 
 
 
 
Analyses of influences on environment  
 
Page  177
 
 16
Influences of construction on environment 
During the construction period, engineering mainly concerns earth and rocks, 
piling, structures, wall building, decoration, transportation and pipe laying. The 
major pollutants are construction wastes and noises made by mechanic operation. 
The rainwater running through construction site will affect the ground water 
environment. The granulated stone and cement, loading and unloading of lime , 
casting of construction materials, laying up the houses and the construction site 
will stir up dust. During the construction period, the construction site should be 
sprayed every day, more frequently during the monsoon season, reducing the 
negative effects on environment. In addition to following routine stipulation, the 
construction should have a noon break during the summer time. The construction 
workers should be educated to carry out civilized operation, not making noise, 
keeping construction site clean, heaping at given places, clearing life garbage 
timely, not throwing randomly, reducing the negative effects on the  tour area 
around it to the greatest extent.  
If there is need for noisy operation at night, application forms should be filled out and 
submitted to the environment authority for approval beforehand. Only with 
Permission to Work 
at Night,
 can there be night operation, and it should be carried out according to the 
requirements in the permission, reducing noise to the minimum.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  178
 
 17
Influences on environment when it begin to operate 
1. 
Effects of waste water on environment 
After the project is constructed, wastewater comes mainly from life, labs and other waste 
water, with a yearly total of 300 tons, waste water from life being mainly pollutant factors 
CODcr, anionic surface active agent, ammonia-nitrogen(NH
3
-N), etc..  Sewage from labs 
has mixed components, containing a lot of organic and inorganic matters. All the 
wastewater must be treated to reach the standards for disposal. The detailed measures are as 
in the following table. 
2.  Influence of waste gas 
Lab analysis will produce some peculiar smells, mainly from slight volatilization of 
reagents. Because it is low concentration, most of them disperse quickly, having no harm to 
the environment.  
3.  Influence of Noise  
Noise mainly comes from the outside machine of air-conditioners, about 65-75dB. Sound 
insulation and distance will make it attenuate to no harm to the environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  179
 
 18
Preventive measures to be adopted by the project and their target effects 
 
Contents 
 
Types 
 
Discharging 
sources 
(No.) 
Pollutants 
Preventive measures 
Target effects  
Life sewage 
CODcr anionic 
surface active 
agent, 
ammonia-
nitrogen 
(NH
3
-N) 
First, deposit them in a case 
bar pool, then treat them 
with facultative anaerobe 
and aerobe. The processed 
sewage water can be used 
for forestation. Random let 
is not allowed. 
 
 
Water 
pollutant 
Sewage from 
lab 
Quantitative of 
organic and 
inorganic 
matter 
Cool it directly in the lab, 
and use it for forestation. 
Quantitative waste water 
will be collected in barrels 
and sent to waste water 
disposal factory or a proper 
factory to be processed and 
drained. 
Satisfying the 
requirements for 
environment 
protection enacted by 
the relative national 
authority having little 
influence on the 
environment 
Pollutants 
harming 
atmosphere 
Lab Peculiar 
smells
Let into high sky through 
natural aeration and pipe 
ventilation 
Having little 
influence on the 
environment  
Noise 
The outside 
machine of 
air-
conditioner 
Noise from 
equipment  
Keep maintenance of the 
outside machine of air 
conditioners. Those with 
heave noise will be fixed 
and quickly and properly to 
reduce the noise.  Effective 
sound insulation measures 
will also be adopted  
Satisfying the 
requirements for 
environment 
protection enacted  
by relative national 
authority, having 
little influence on the 
environment 
Garbage 
Offices 
Garbage from 
life and offices  
Collected and treated by 
Department of 
Environmental Sanitation    
Have little influence 
on the environment 
Page  180
 
 19
Others 
Speed 
boat for 
supervision 
Garbage from 
life, 
wastewater 
Life garbage is collected 
and treated by Department 
of Environmental 
Sanitation; sewage is 
disposed by grease water 
separator, making sure it 
satisfy the requirements 
before drainage     
Satisfying the 
requirements for 
environment 
protection stipulated  
by the relative 
national authority, 
having little influence 
on the environment 
Measures for ecologic protection and target effects 
The administrative station is sited at the location of the former hydrometric station. Its 
construction will make great change to the original view of the place. Green belt is planned to be set 
up around the area and the inside the station, choosing proper plants fitting the environment and 
consuming less water. Grass and flour will be grown in all clearing space, and pot flowers and plants 
will be grown inside the buildings. At the same time, try to bring the Administrative Station into 
normal operation as early as possible. With all those measures, a pleasant green environment will be 
created, the ecologic environment will be protected to the greatest degree and diversity of creatures 
will be resumed in the area.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusions and suggestions 
Page  181
 
 20
Intended to establish Jiushan Islands ocean ecologic conservation zone in Xiangshan 
County, the project will result in effective protection of the area as spawning place and/or 
resources of big yellow-fin fish and needless Man cuttlefish, bait and larva bait and also as 
habitat for cowfish and as reproduction place for black tailed gulls and other birds. The reef 
ecology system will also be effectively protected. 
As for the workers and equipment, professional personnel and advanced equipment will be 
staffed and installed, who will exercise over-all researches into its administration, law-
execution and supervision and propaganda, prevent and stop all illegal practices and behaviors 
that will impair the ecologic environment, mobilize the public to participate in the protection 
work, till the restoration of biologic resources and entironment, which will promote coordinated 
development of the local economy.  
At present, the atmospheric environment and acoustic environment are good enough in 
quality to satisfy requirements for various functional areas. 
1.  The wastewater, mainly from life sewage and lab sewage as well as other sources as 
mentioned above, will go through case-bar treatment and depositing treatment and aerobe 
and anaerobe treatment to be made suitable as irrigation water for forestation. No 
wastewater will be allowed to let without proper treatment. Quantitative wastewater will 
be collected in barrels and sent to waste water disposal factory or a proper factory to be 
processed and drained
.
 
2.  The major exhaust gas comes from labs, which will be let into high sky through air-
exhausting pipes and ventilation, causing no consequence to the surroundings.  
3.  Noise mainly comes from the outside machine of air-conditioners, about
 
65-75dB. Sound 
insulation and distance will make it attenuate to no harm to the environment. 
4.  Garbage, mainly from life and offices, will be collected and then disposed by sanitation 
service.  
5.  The construction of the small dock will impair the original coastal line and view, we suggest 
using the original dock.  If a new one has to be constructed, it should be scientifically 
designed and constructed and its location should be well selected, causing as little damage 
as possible to the original rock coastal line, so that harmonious travel scenes in Songlan 
Mountain can be maintained.  
6.  Suggestions: Since administrative Station will be built in tour area, with the first floor as 
displaying hall for ocean biological samplers and exhibition place for ocean knowledge, its 
content should be constantly enriched to involve various aspects of ocean and halobios, 
especially of the ecologic phenomena and biological species unique to Xiangshan. 
Exhibition should be open to tourists and made into a window for Chinese and foreign 
Page  182
 
 21
   
Page  183
 
 22
Examination conclusion 
 
                  
The report of 
Evaluation of Influences of Construction Items on the Environment
 
written by supervision station of Xiangshan County Bureau of Environment Protection 
has been carefully studied. We thereby agree with the conclusion and suggestions. 
The construction undertaker mush administer “three meanwhiles” system,  putting 
into effect all the measures of environment protection, seeing to it that life sewage is 
recycled for forestation and lab sewage is not let out.  
 
We hereby authorize the project.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                           (Seal)  
Xiangshan County Bureau of Environment Protection
 
                            Date:
 August 13,2003
  
Page  184
Application for Environment Protection Plan for Project Construction   
Apply unit\1fseal\1f\1f                                                  Form writer \1fsignature\1f\1f                   committed by\1fsign
ature\1f\1f         
Project name  
Constructions Items of Jiushan Islands Ocean 
Ecologic Conservation Zone 
 
Location of  construction  
Jiushan Islands and Songlan Mountain, Xiangsha
n
Scale and content 
of the construction 
Construct a 1500-meter-floor-area complex of 
Administrative Station and install it with 
necessary equipment; set up protection 
establishments in the area  
character of construction 
new 
trade  
Administrative classification of 
Environment protection 
Production of the application form  
Total 
investment
\1f
10,000 
yuan
\1f
 
603.25 
Investment in environment 
protection\1f
10,000 yuan
\1f 
60 
Percentage of 
investment\1f%\1f 
9.95
%
Applicant Unit 
Xiangshan Bureau of Development and 
Planning 
Approval No. 
Xiangshan 
Investment Planning 
Section Reply No. 
[2003]51  
Construction 
starting date 
Marc
h
2003 
Ct
ti
it
Unit examining 
and approving the 
item 
Xiangshan Bureau of Environment Protection 
Approval No. 
 
Approval time 
 
Unit name 
Xiangshan 
Bureau of Ocean 
and Fishery 
Contact 
phone 
13003705705
Unit 
Xiangshan 
Environment 
Supervision Station 
Contact phone 
657187
0
Address 
Xiangshan 
Bureau of Ocean 
and Fishery 
Postal 
coast 
 
Address 
191 Xinhuan Road 
Postal No.  
31570
0
Construction
Legal person 
Huang Cailin 
Contact 
Fang Yue 
Evaluation Unit 
Certificate No. 
 
Evaluation fee 
 
s
t
a
t
us quo o
f
 
Level of 
environment 
quality 
Environmental Air
\1f
GB 3095-1996   surface water
\1f
Level 2   Environmental noise
\1f
GB 3096-93  Type 1 see water
\1f
GB 3097-1997   
soil
\1f
          others
\1f
 
Page  185
 
 
24
Environmentally 
Sensitive items  
\1f
Protected drinking water sources      
\1f
Natural conservation area          
\1f
places of interest        
\1f
forest  parks        
\1f
Protected farmland        
\1f
protected areas of ecological functions                
\1f
 area liable to loss of water and earth      
\1f
ecologically sensitive and fragile area       
\1f
densely-populated area 
\1f
protected cultural relics     
\1f
three rivers, two lakes, two controlled areas    
\1f
 three gorges reservoirs  
construction
\1f
completed 
and under 
construction
\1f
 
Planned construct  
Total construction engineering 
\1ffinished + in process + planned\1f  
Pollutants  
Quantity of practically 
discharged water 
Discharged quantity 
allowed  
Practically discharged 
quantity 
Verified total discharge 
quantity 
Expect3ed  
concentration of  
pollutant 
Allowed  
concentration
 
quantity 
Self-
diminishing 
quantity  
Total 
expected 
quantity 
Verified
 
total
 
discharge 
tit
”new-for-
old 
diminishing 
quantity  
Expected
 
total
 
discharge 
tit
Verified 
total 
discharge 
quantity 
Discharge
 
fluctuation 
tit
Local equilibration 
replacing diminishing 
Wastewater 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
0.025 
0.025 ---- 
      
Chemically needed 
oxygen  
  
 
 
 ”
400
----- 0.1 0.1 ---- 
 
 
   
 
ammonia-
nitrogen 
(NH
3
-N)
 
  
 
 
 ”
30 ----- 
0.0075 
0.0075 ---- 
   
 
 
 
Anion surface active 
agent 
  
 
 
 ”
20 ----- 
0.005 0.005  ---- 
   
 
 
 
Waste gas 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
Sulphur dioxide* 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
looting*  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
Industrial powder* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Nitrogen oxide 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Industrial solid 
waste* 
——
 
——
 
  
——
 
——
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Pll
di
h
l
\1f
id
i
l
i
i
d
il
\1f
other
 
pollutant  
related to the 
jt
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Page  186
 
 
25
Notes
\1f  
1. * pollutant controlled by the country in quantity during the “tenth -five” years  
 2.. * discharge quantity increase and decrease\1f\1f+\1fincrease\1f-\1fdecrease 
1
\01
 Measure units\1fWaste water discharge quantity——10,000tons/year\1fWaste gas discharge——10,000 m
3
 (Cubic 
Tons10,000biaoM
3
/year\1fIndustrial garbage——10,000tons/year\1f Concentration of pollutant in sewage ——
mg/liter\1fConcentration of pollutant discharged into the air——mg/m
3
\1fQuantity of waste water——ton/year\1fPollutants into the 
air——ton/year 
 
 
 
Page  187
Jiushan Islands Marine natural reserve area project 
Social Evaluation report
 
 
Jiushan Islands marine natural reserve area project is a long term social and environmental project 
based on Xiangshan county and even Zhejiang province’s actual marine situation and necessity to 
protect marine and fishery resource. This project is given full consideration to Jiushan islands.    
 
\1f.Respond to local economy development’s requirement  
Though influence on fishing production of Xiangshan to some extend, viewing from long term 
interest, establishment of Jiushan islands marine natural reserve area will contribute to continuous 
development of Xiangshan marine economy : 
1.It will offer safe reproduction and living surrounding for main economical fish type as large 
yellow croaker , octopus and porpoise ,black tail seagull within reserve area. Compared with present 
small and low valued fish, fishing resource after protection will have more economy value. Establish 
reserve area is to protect and utilize marine resource more scientifically and reasonably. If we control 
marine resource under scientific evaluation and make sure that fishing production is within resource 
reproduction capacity’s acceptance, fishing production will on the way of positive circulation and 
continuous development.  
2.After establish reserve area, the situation that disorder and unlimited use resource of shellfish and 
alga on island and reef, bird and vegetation in reserve area will be quickly changed. Resource of bird, 
shellfish,alga and vegetation will rehabilitate, and surrounding environment will be well protected.  
3.Marine environment within reserve area will be essentially improved. Given the advantage of 
peaceful harbor, numerous islands, beautiful scene, abundant fishes and bird resource, this reserve 
area is suitable for developing recreation tourist industry, integrate with Songlanshan and Shipu spot, 
to develop program as sea fishing, bird island and island tour, seafood taste and sea scene view. With 
the development of tour industry, it will not only accelerate development of relevant industry, 
increase tour income, but also play an important role in creating more job opportunity. 
4.with the establishment of reserve area, popularity of Ningbo and Xiangshan will be enhanced 
which will lead us to attract more attention from oversea and domestic businessman and bring more 
invest and economy corporation opportunity. 
5.After establishment of reserve area, it will become R&D and education center for marine 
knowledge, strengthen environmental protection concept of common people especially for primary 
and middle school students. Combine class knowledge and practice, it will educate them to love sea 
and love territory, strengthen their sea territory consciousness and resource continuous development 
consciousness, voluntarily join in team to protect marine environment. 
 
\1f. Respond to necessity to integrate with national and world relevant law  
Page  188
 
 27
Chapter 3 The 22nd of Marine Environmental Protection Law of People’s Republic China stipulate 
requirement to establish marine reserve area, which symbolize china’s reserve area construction step 
to formality and legalization. Jiushan islands is reproduction area and transport center of main coastal 
economy fishes and birds, in accordance with the requirement of marine reserve area establishment. 
Construct such kind of surrounding into marine natural reserve area is significant presentation of 
china’s marine resource step toward legalization and standardzation. 
\1f. Respond to shortness of marine reserve area of Zhejiang province Since we begin to set up 
natural reserve area from 1956, we had built 22 different level natural reserve area up to 1997 and 
reach 116409h square meters. But there is only 1 reserve area for wild animal, plant and forest 
protection, named Nanji islands reserve area., far behind the requirement to protect zhejiang’s 
diversity animal and plant.Establishment of Jiushan islands natural reserve area will adjust Zhejiang 
reserve area’s situation, fasten development of reserve area.All in all , marine resource and 
environmental surrounding of Jiushan islands and nearby area had been destroyed heavily , if 
protection is not applied, the situation will be worse .Marine resource in this area will continue 
recession and is unable to continuous utilization , and more and more vital species will disappear, 
Jiushan islands will turn into a stagnant water. abundant marine resource will become memory to 
Jiushan islands and nearby area. Lesson from large yellow croaker and octopus is deeply impressed to 
us, owing to over catching and lack of protection lead to severe resource recession. If protection is not 
applied, it will not only influence health and continuous development of Xiangshan economy and 
effect development of relevant industry, but also destroy some fisherman’s living situation and cause 
uncertainty of social stability. Therefore, we must pay full attention to relationship between develop 
marine resource and protect marine resource ,focus on maintain marine natural environment, well plan 
and design development of marine resource according to nature development objective law. Though it 
will bring negative influence to Xiangshan marine industry to some extent at present, however, from 
long term view, it will play an profound important role in effective protect marine resource 
,reasonable develop marine resource and ensure sustain utilization of marine resource , promote 
healthy development of Xianshan marine industry. 
 
Owing to shortness of macro control and overall plan, and lack of  
consciousness to protect marine resource , traditional marine industry mode are not basically changed. 
Few knowledge about continuous development of marine resource and given priority to current 
interest, lack of science plan and rough management when utilize marine resource, we do destroy and 
waste marine resource and marine environment 
Page  189
 
 28
Consulting Plan Related to the Key Interested Parties of the Jiushan Islands Marine Ecological 
Reserve and  
Propaganda Plan of the Reserve  
Set up by World Bank Loan “China Coastal Area Sustainable 
Development Project” Xiangshan County Project
 
 
This project is based on the actual situation of marine and fishery in Xiangshan 
County and even Zhejiang Province, and in accordance the demands for protection of 
marine and fishery resources, and to establish an marine and fishery ecological natural 
reserve in the Jiushan Islands, which is 18.5 km from the continent and in the ocean 
within the eastern side of Xiangshan County. The construction content and program of 
the project cover establishing boundary plates, buoys and floating marks, bulletin 
boards on prohibition, iron wire fences and piles and management observation 
platform, constructing management station for the reserve and the facilitating simple 
dock in Songlan Mountain, and providing instruments and equipments, office devices, 
supervision administration yacht and supervision vehicles. Through construction of 
infrastructural facilities and equipments, after the operation of the project, it will carry 
out systematical supervision and evaluation on the project, adopt counter-measures, 
promote the protection of the objects of Jiushan Islands and the surrounding ocean 
areas and of ecological environment, maintain the healthy circulation of marine 
ecological system, accomplish the restoration of biological resources and ecological 
environment, and promote the sustainable and healthy development of social economy.  
 
Page  190
 
 29
Part 1: Geological location 
Jiushan Islands is located the utmost south of Zhoushan Islands, and is a renowned 
location of islands in the middle coastal areas of Zhejiang. It is 18.5km away from the 
Changzuitou of Juexi Town, which is the nearest point from the islands. The islands are 
composed of 76 islands and reefs in different sizes, with a total area of 7.3 square 
kilometers. Its mother island, the South Jiushan Islands, has a total area of 4.08 square 
kilometers. The islands and its surrounding areas have unique geological location, 
which is the juncture area of Zhoushan Fishery, Damuyang Fishery, Yushan Fishery 
and Zhejiang East Sea Fishery, and influenced by the Taiwan Warm Current and the 
coastal river systems, the area becomes a sea area with high productivity, and with 
fruitful baiter creatures, becomes an excellent multiplying and roosting place for 
various marine biological resources. The geological coordinate of the reserve is 
A\1f29°32.4N\1f122°3.3E\1fB\1f29°32.4N\1f122°29.2E\1fC\1f29°16.2N\1f122°3.3E\1fD\1f29
°16.2N\1f122°23.5E. The reserve has a total area of 1149.5 square meters, and is 
divided into 3 districts including central zone, buffing zone and experimental zone 
according to their functions.  
Part 2: Analysis on benefits 
After establishment of the reserve, the fishery in part of the Xiangshan County will 
be affected, as in the neighboring sea areas of Jiushan Islands, some small amount of 
fishermen are engaged in seasonal fishery, and the fishing boats they use are mostly 
small wooden boats, and additionally, the fruitful seashells and the herb medicines on 
the islands also bring certain amount of economic benefits to the neighboring 
fishermen. As statistics shows, the quantity of small boats used in the fishery of the sea 
Page  191
 
 30
area is 80 and more, and the labor force is beyond 300 persons, with an annual income 
of 20-30 thousand Yuan. Although after the establishment of the reserve, the economic 
benefits of that type of fishermen will be impacted inevitably, in long run, the 
establishment of Jiushan Islands marine Ecological Natural Reserve is not only 
favorable to the sustainable development of marine economy of the county, but also 
helpful to the later development of the area. On the basis that the current fishery 
production of 800 tons in the area equals to 10 million Yuan, after the construction of 
the reserve, the fishery resources protected in that area will go up to about 20 thousand 
tons, and the production value will also increase sharply, leading to substantial 
economic benefits.  
1. Through the implementation of the project, the protection and research on the 
various biological resources, island and reef resources, and human and natural views in 
the reserve will be enhanced, the population of many kinds of endangered rare 
creatures, such as the national grade II protection animal river dolphin, is expected to 
resume, and the healthy circulation of ecological system in the reserve will be 
maintained. The reserve will protect effectively the important ecological system, rare 
and precious species and the diversity of marine creatures, such as the island and reef 
ecological system and the protected animals like big yellow croaker, cuttlefish and 
black-tailed gull, establish the way of utilization of marine creature resources in 
accordance with the principle of sustainable utilization, and maintain the healthy 
circulation of marine ecological system.  
2. The implementation of the project will protect the marine ecological resources in 
the area of Jiushan Islands, promote the resumption and reproduction of various 
Page  192
 
 31
important economic biological resources in the reserve, and further establish the 
conservation of quality resources, which is one of the key actions of sustainable 
strategy.  
3. The implementation of the project will promote the harmonious development of 
local economy and natural protection, thus is a social public affair that benefits both the 
contemporary and the future generations, and also the need of local economy 
development. The project will also change the rapacious exploitation and extensive 
operation of Jiushan Islands and the neighboring sea area, reduce the occurrence of 
marine pollution and harm cases, such as contamination and red tide, and enable better 
protection and resumption of the current resources in the Jiushan Islands area, which 
produces social and ecological benefits beyond calculation. The fishery resources 
resumed in the reserve will be far beyond the current small scale and low value fishery 
in economic value, and the excellent ecological environment created in the reserve will 
improve the life quality of the people dramatically. In the mean time, the improvement 
of marine ecological environment will play a decisive role in promoting the intensive 
efficient ecological breeding mode and the proliferation drainage control in the coastal 
area of Xiangshan County, and in carrying out the marine blue project of agricultural 
and animal raising, and impact the teaching, scientific research and sustainable 
utilization profoundly.   
4. The implementation of the project is the need of joining the related marine laws 
and regulations of our country with that of the world. The article 22 of chapter 3 of the 
Marine Environmental Protection Law of P.R.C specifies the condition of establishing 
Page  193
 
 32
marine natural reserve, which is a mark that the construction of reserve in our country 
is stepping toward normalization and legalization.  
5. The implementation of the project will be a significant example in the Zhejiang Province and even the whole 
country, bridge the gap of marine ecological type of reserve in Zhejiang Province, thus adjust the current 
unreasonable layout of marine natural reserves in Zhejiang Province, and promote the development of marine 
ecological natural reserves in this province.  
Part 3: Consulting plan of related interested personnel 
1. Organizing the learning and training of related personnel regularly 
The neighboring sea area of Jiushan Islands has long been the fishery area of the wide range of fishermen. The 
establishment of marine ecological reserve this time will provide protection to this area, and consequently the related 
benefits of part of the fishermen in the area will be impacted. Therefore, the significance of propaganda, consulting 
and training aimed at that part of population is self-evident. How to popularize the significance and necessity of 
establishing that reserve as much as possible, and how to guide them to transfer from the mode of rapacious 
exploitation and extensive operation to the road of sustainable development, are the key subjects of the current 
publicity and education. The training plan of the recent period is as follows:  
Phase 1  Time of training: December 2003   Persons trained: 200 
        Content of training: General description of the reserve and the necessity of establishing the reserve. 
Phase 2  Time of training: March 2004   Persons trained: 100 
        Content of training: Related national laws and regulations and related acts of the reserve. 
Phase 3  Time of training: June 2004   Persons trained: 100 
Page  194
 
 33
        Content of training: The development prospect of the reserve.  
2. Making strong efforts in publicizing the related laws, regulations and acts of 
Jiushan Islands marine ecological natural reserve and related scientific knowledge, 
enhancing the consciousness of the people on marine ecological science, and promoting 
the active participation of the people in the construction of Jiushan Islands marine 
ecological natural reserve. The detailed schedule is as follows:  
 (1) During the construction of the project, widely publicizing the meaning of 
conduction the construction of Jiushan Islands marine ecological natural reserve by 
adopting various media, such as Xiangshan News, Xiangshan TV, Ningbo Daily, and 
improve the consciousness of the public on protection of resources, to create the 
favorable atmosphere of protecting resources and utilizing the resources reasonably.  
 (2) Establishing the propaganda plates and prohibition board at Juexi, Songlan 
Mountain or South Jiushan mother island, joining with the towns and streets that are 
close to the Jiushan Islands and the neighboring sea area, to carry out publicity and 
education on Jiushan Islands natural reserve to the related agricultural and fishery 
villages, to enable them to understand the significance of establishing the reserve.  
 (3) Carrying out the publicity and education on the related laws and regulations of 
marine ecological protection regularly, publicizing the significance and necessity of 
establishing the Jiushan Islands marine ecological natural reserve to the public, to 
enable them to understand that the formulation and implementation of related laws and 
regulations and the conduct of marine ecological protection are in the end to uphold the 
current and future self-interests of the wide workers.  
Page  195
 
 34
3. Setting up the windows for publicizing and consulting by defining special persons 
and posts, which focus on related matters of the reserve, and offering explanation to the 
other questions of the related interested persons.  
Page  196
 
 35
 
 
 
Report on the Environmental Effect of the Construction Project 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project\1fProcess of marine alga 
Constructed by\1f
Ningbo Chaoxing Marine Life Product Co. Ltd.
 (stamp)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  197
 
 36
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Made by National Environmental Protection General Administration 
On July 30, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Responsibilities Form 
 
 
 
 
Appraised by\1f Environmental Protection Supervision & Test Station of Xiangshan County 
 
 
Person in Charge of the Appraising Institute\1fShi Yaqin 
 
 
Person in Charge of the Project\1fShi Yaqin
 
 
 
 
T. About 
Appraiser 
Name Profession 
Professional 
Position 
Certificate No. 
Responsibilities 
Signature 
Ni Jianzhong  Environmenta
Engineer 
Huan-Pin
g
-Gan
g
-
Examined and 
 
Page  198
 
 37
l supervise & 
Test 
Zheng-Zi No. 
C20150002 
approved by 
Wu wu 
Environmenta
l supervise & 
Test 
Assistant 
Engineer 
Huan-Ping-Gang-
Zheng-Zi C20150003
Made by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In light of\1f 
 
Page  199
 
 38
1. 
State Council of PRC [1998] No.253 “Rules on Environmental Protection & 
Administration of Construction Project”  
2.  National Environmental Protection General Administration “ Technical Guide for 
Appraisal of Environmental Affect” HJ/T2.1-2.3-93\1fHJ/T2.4-95\1f  
3.  [1996] No. 91 “Approval on the Project of Functional Division of Ground Water 
Environment in Zhejiang Province” issued by People’s Government of Zhejiang 
Province  
4.  [1997] No.67” Approval on the Project of Functional Division of Environmental Air 
Quality in Ningbo City” issued by People’s Government of Ningbo City  
5. 
“Feasibility Report on the Process Project of Marine Alga” make by
 Ningbo 
Chaoxing Marine Life Product Co. Ltd.
 
6.  Xiang-Ji-Ton-Fu [2003]No.53\1f”Approval on the Construction Project of Marine 
Alga Process of Ningbo Chaoxing Co., Ltd.\1f  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  200
 
 39
 
 
 
 
About the construction Project\1f 
 
Project 
Process of marine alga 
Constructed by 
Ningbo Chaoxing Marine Life Product Co. Ltd.
 
Legal 
Representative 
Ye Zaifu 
Contact 
Person 
Li Feng 
Address 
Aquatic Product Industrial Park, Shipu Town, Xiangshan County 
Mobile 13566538578 
Fax 
0574-65982687  P.C. 
315731 
Constructed at 
Aquatic Product Industrial Park, Shipu Town, Xiangshan County 
Examined and 
approved by 
Development & Plan 
Administration of Xiangshan 
County 
Approval 
No. 
Xiang-Ji-Tou-Fu[2003] No.53 
Quality of 
Construction 
Newly Constructed, Rebuilt or 
expand Technical reform 
Industry & 
Code 
 
Area 55\1fmu\1f 
Green 
Land\1fm2\1f 
11954 
Total 
investment\1ften 
thousand\1f 
3801.12 
there into\1fInvestment 
in environmental 
protection 
\1ften thousand\1f 
60 
Percentage of 
Investment in 
Environment 
1.6% 
Appraisal Funds 
 
Date to put into 
production 
In May, 2005 
Scale & Content    
 
Background\1f     
With total ocean area of 5335 square kilometers, the county of Xiangshan is abundant in ocean 
resources. There is 300,000 mu shawl as well as 4.96 million mu interior ocean of 20-meter-long, in 
which interior ocean within the harbor is 450,000 mu. The coastline is 800 kilometer long. All the 
alone is favorable to develop ocean aquaculture. Recently, abnormal fishing has resulted in the 
reduction of ocean resources, which consequently forces fishers to turn to aquaculture, especially in 
fishes, seashell, alga, etc. Alga aquaculture as a household industry, has a history of over 30 years in 
Xiangshan. However, due to few processing enterprises, narrow market, such industry has been 
limited. By establishing a comprehensive alga processing plant, it is able to increase the fisher’s 
income, promote the local economy and enhance the development of alga aquaculture.  
 
Contents\1f   
1
\01
 Scale of production\1f Select fresh kelp to produce kelp powder, iodine sauce, kelp threads, with 
annual turnout of 300-ton kelp powder, low-ton iodine sauce and 2000-tone kelp thread.  
Page  201
 
 40
2
\01
 Civil engineering\1f Covers and area of 55 mu, building area of 12,541 square meters, with 
5280-square-meter workshop, 5412-square-meter cold storage, 960-square-meter office 
building, 889-square-meter dormitory, green land of 11954 square meters and roads of 8055 
square meters. 
Original pollutants and main environmental issues related to this project 
 
 
 
 
About the natural and social environment where the project is constructed 
 
Natural environment (such as topography, landforms, geology, climate, atmosphere, hydrology, 
vegetation, biological variability, etc.)\1f  
1
\01
 Geographic location\1fThe second-phase project of the aquatic city is located at Shipu 
Industrial Park (refer to the appendix in details). Next to the road, the project enjoys 
convenient transportation and favor environment, close to the east coast, Shipu Town is one o
f
 
famous ports, connected with Dongchen, Dingtang, Xiaotang to the north, next to Sanmen 
Bay to the west, opposite to Hepu, Gaotang to the south and linked to Damuyang, 
Maotouyang to the east.  
2
\01
 Geology Landforms\1fShipu Town is at costal hilly country, 70% areas of low hilly country or 
island hilly country. In the old part of the city, and the buildings are along the brooks while 
streets and harbors winds beside the stairsteps. The height above sea level is between 20-28 
meters in the city, only 3-4 meters around the harbor. The highest location is Dajinshan, 394 
meters to the est. The basic roads on both sides of the harbor are mainly composed of gray 
and dark gray mountain rock. Geological structure is of northeast, west-east, southwest crack. 
Around the harbor is coastal stairstep land and plain. The depth of the basic rock varies from 
10 meters to 20 meters. Around No. 2 Harbor, the basic rock is generally 4-7 meter deep. So 
far no earthquake above 5 Scale has happened in Shipu.                                                           
3\1fClimate\1fAt subtropical monsoon belt, warm and moist, of clear four seasons and rich rainfall. 
In winter, controlled by cold air mass, it is often sunny and cold; in spring, it is sometimes sunny 
and sometimes cloudy; in early summer, it is rainy due to sub-high pressure; in summer, 
controlled by high pressure, it is sunny and hot, few rain, with typhoon, torrential rain and flood 
at the same time. There is southeast wind in spring and northeast wind in winter. Disasters 
include frost, low temperature, storm, ice, drought, typhoon, torrential rain, cold wave, etc. 
especially typhoon, torrential rain, drought, low temperature. 
4\1fAtmosphere\1fannual average temperature\1f16.2\1f\1faverage temperature in January 
\1f5.4\1f\1faverage temperature in July\1f5.4\1f\1fthe lowest temperature in the past\1f-7.5\1f\1fJan. 16, 
1961\1f\1fthe highest in the past\1f38.8\1f\1fAug.20, 1971\1f.  
Average rainfall\1f1392mm\1fabout 23 days\1fthe max daily rainfall\1f281.6 mm\1fsuccessive for as 
long as 23 days\1fthe max annual rainfall\1f1756.2mm\1fin 1976\1f\1fthe min annual 
rainfall\1f770.6\1fin 1967\1f. 
annual avera
g
e relative humidit
y
\1f80%\1fThe sunshine time\1f2025.8 hours\1fnon-frost 
Page  202
 
 41
period\1f296.7 days. Wind direction\1fNorth wind in winter and southwest wind in summer. 
Average wind speed\1f5.5m/s\1fMax instant wind speed58 m/s Average highest water 
temperature30\1f\1flowest water temperature 8\1f  
5\1fHydrology tides\1f Shipu port is the body to absorb the pollutants as for the appraised project. 
The northwest port of Shipu port is land. On the east side, from the northwest to the southwest is 
Shanban Touzui, Northeast Island, Duimanshan, Nantian Island, Gaotang Island in line, as a 
natural shade. On the west side, close to Sanmen Bay, composed of Venus shore and five water 
courts: Tongwamen, Dongmen, Xiawanmen, Linmen, Sanmen. The port extends from the month 
to the south, winds from the west to the south, lake a crescent moon, with the middle line of 18 
km, width of 0.4-3mm, water area of 27 km and water depth of 4-33m.  
Tides and Shipu are regular half-day tides. Average high tide is 2.14mlow tide is -1.4m\1faverage 
tide margin is 3.54m. the rising tide enter from the southeast to the east and ebb from the 
opposite direction to the east, generally in counter-clockwise. The max flow speed is about five 
hours later than tide. The rising tide is of small speed, 0.55m/s for 7 hours and 7 minutes\1fand 
0.37m/s below for 6 hours and 24 minutes. The ebb is of large speed, 0.75m/s on the surface for 
6 hours and 15 minutes, and 0.96m/s for 6 hours and 5 minutes. The aftertide is from the north to 
the east at 0.1-0.2m/s. Waves in Shipu port is mixed wave. Tide height is less than 0.8m. During 
typhoon, the highest wave is about 1.5m. 
 
About 
the 
current 
environ
mental 
quality 
 
About Social Environment\1fsocial economic structure, education, culture, relics 
protection etc.\1f  
 
Xiangshan is situated between Xiangshan Port and Sanmen Bay: at east longitude of 131
°
34
\01;
-
122
°
20
\01;
,and north latitude of 28
°
45
\01;
-29
°
41
\01;
.The county is composed of the east part of 
Xiangshan peninsula and 608 reef rocks along the ocean, with land area of 1.75 square 
kilometers and ocean area of nearly 5000 square kilometers. The population is 528,000. the 
county people’s government is at Dencheng Town. Xiangshen is one of key fishing area in 
Zhejiang Province, rich in hairtail, yellow-fin tuna, pomfret, cuttle, etc. Ocean aquaculture is 
mainly in prawn, clam, oyster, kelp, etc. There are Shipu port, Hepu port, with convenient ocean 
transportation. It is only 36 km between Shipu Town and Dencheng Town. With an area of 83.6 
square kilometers, there are 70 administrative villages and 20 residence quarters in Shipu. In 
2000, total population is 70429
\1f
among which 26772 is non-agriculture population. Shipu is the 
key port appointed by the country and the province for the reception and trade with Taiwan. 
Various aquatic products are produced there. It was recorded that, in 2000, total value is 3.3 
billion with industrial value of 2.1 billion, agricultural and aquatic value of 1.2 billion. Its 
industry includes aquatic process and building ships. Transportation is convenient, up to Dalian 
in the north, down to Hainan and Guangdong in the south and to Shashi by water in the west. 
Besides, passenger steam ship pass several ports including Shanghai, Jiaojiang, Shenjiamen, etc. 
The ocean area is 27 square kilometers, calm, capable of ten thousands of fishing steamers. 500-
ton steamer can pass the port. Shipu boasts various industries, especially in aquatic process. At 
present, there are over 200 cold storages with capability of 30000 tons, the daily freezing 
capability of which is 2000 tons. Education develops at the same time. Now there is a aquatic 
school, a adult technical school, the middle schools, tow junior middle schools and 31 primary 
schools. Compulsory education rate is above 99%.
 
Page  203
 
 42
Current environmental quality and main environmental problems\1fair, surface water, 
ground water, sound environment, ecological environment, etc.\1f  
1.Ocean water environment\1fin 2001regular supervision and test was carried out at 
Shipu port by Ningbo Environment Supervision & Test Center According to 
GB3097-1997 “Ocean Water Quality Standards” index of inorganic nitrogen beyond 
the standard for Class IV water quality, the other indexes are all in accordance with 
the standards for Class III water quality stipulated in Project of Functional Division 
of Off sea Environment in Zhejiang Province 11\1f  
2. Air\1fof good quality, up to Standard II of GB3095-1996 “Environment Quality” 
14\1f  
3. Noise
\1f
supervised and tested by Xiangshen Environmental Supervision and Test Station, 
noise up to Standard III of GB3095-1996” Urban Environment Noise Standard”
 
Main Environmental Protection Objectives:\1fName and Grade\1f  
1
\01
 
Environment air, GB3095-1996Standard II of “Environment Quality”  
2
\01
 
According to Project of Functional Division of Off sea Environment in Zhejiang 
Province, Class IV functional zone. Water quality, Class III GB9097-1997”Ocean 
Water Quality Standards”  
3
\01
 
Environment noise: Standard III of GB3095-1996” Urban Environment Noise 
Standard” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicable standards for appraisal 
 
Page  204
 
 43
Environment Quality Standard 
1\1f Environmental quality\1fGB3095-1996Standard II of “Environment Quality”  
unit\1fmg/m
3 
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
water environment\1fAccording to Project of Functional Division of Off Sea Environment 
in Zhejiang   Province, Class IV functional zone.   
 unit\1fmg/L    
      
Item PH 
DO 
COD
MN
 BOD
5
 
Inorgani
c 
Nitrogen 
Active 
phosphat
e 
Standard 
value 
6.8-8.8 \1f3 
 ”
5m 
 ”
5 
 ”
0.5 
 ”
0.045 
 
 
 
3. 
Environmental noise\1fStandard III of GB3095-1996” Urban Environment Noise 
Standard”   
Leq [dB (A)]   
   
 
 
 
 
 
Annual average 
Daily average 
Hourly average 
SO
2
 0.06 
0.15  0.50 
NO
2
 0.05 
0.10  0.15 
TSP 0.2 
0.3 
/ 
Types 
In the day 
At night 
3 65 
55 
 
 
 
Page  205
 
 44
Pollutant discharge standard 
1
\01
 
waste gas\1fas for boiler smoke, according to Standards for No. 2 Zone and period II GB13271-2001” 
Discharge Standard for Boiler Gas Pollu8tant”. Some standards are as follows\1f 
                                                  Unit\1fmg/L   
   Project 
Standard value 
discharge 
density\1fmg/m
3
\1f 
smoke darkness 
\1fdarkness\1f 
SO2 discharge 
density\1fmg/m
3
\1f 
Other boilers 
200 
1 
900 
 
  As for dining-room smoke, according to GWPB5-2000 “Catering Smoke Discharge Standards (Trial)”, refer to 
the following form:  
  
Scale Small 
Medium 
Large 
Standard stove number 
 •
1\1f< 3 
 •
3\1f< 6 
 •
6 
Corresponding stove 
power\1f108J/h\1f 
1.67,< 5.00 
 •
5.00,< 10 
 •
10 
corresponding projection area 
of the discharge cover\1fm2\1f 
 •
1.1,< 3.3 
 •
3.3,< 6.6 
 •
6.6 
max possible discharge 
density\1fmg/m3\1f 
2.0 
min removal rate of cleaning 
feasibilities\1f%\1f 
60 75 85 
 
As for stench, according to GB14554-93 “Stenchy Pollutant Discharge Standard” form 1 
density within the factory 20.  
 
2
\01
 
Waste water\1fAdopting GB8978-1996 Standard III of “ Sewage Disposal Standard”, but wastewater in the 
park is through collective disposal by the industrial park committee. All enterprises are allowed to carry out 
and issue standards for wastewater. Relevant indexes are as follows: 
                                                                     unit\1fmg/L  
Project 
PH CODcr 
BOD5  SS NH3-N 
Animal and 
vegetable oil 
Standard 
value\1fmg/l\1f 
6-9 2000 1200 400 150 
1.0 
 
  As for waste water in the park, GB8978-1996 Standard II of “ Sewage Disposal Standard”\1fsome standards are 
as follows:                                                         unit\1fmg/L                                                  
          
Project PH 
CODcr 
BOD5 SS NH3-N 
Animal and 
vegetable oil 
Standard 
value\1fmg/l\1f 
6-9 
150 30 150 25 
1.0 
 
3
\01
 
noise\1fNoise in the factory according to GB12348-90 Standard III of “Industrial Enterprise Noise Standard” 
Voice Class Leq[dB(A)]  
Type 
In the daytime 
At night 
3 65 
55 
 
Noise at construction site according to “ Noise Limit at Construction Site”.            
Noise Limit at Construction Site      Voice class Led[dB(A)]  
Noise Limit 
During 
construction
 
Main noise source
 
in the daytime 
at night 
Earthwork bulldozer\1fdigger\1floader, 
etc. 
75 
55 
Piling Piling 
machine 85 
Construction 
prohibition 
Structure 
concrete miner\1fvibrator\1felectric saw 
70 
55 
Decoration crane\1flifter, 
etc. 
65 
55 
 
Sum 
control 
index 
Refer to “Environmental Effect Report for the first-phase development Zone of Xiangshan Shipu Aquatic 
Products Industrial Park” designed by sewage disposal plant daily disposal volume of 5000 tons     
                                                                           unit \1fmg/L  
Item PH 
CODcr 
BOD5 
SS 
NH3-N 
Animal and 
vegetable oil 
Standard 
value\1fmg/l
\1f 
6-9 2000  1200 
400 
150 
100 
 
Waste water in the park according to GB
8978-1996”Waste Water Discharge Standards” 
Page  206
 
 45
Engineering Analysis of the Construction Project 
Brief introduction of the technical flow  
1.  process of kelp powder\1f     
 
                                                                      Waste water solid waste 
 
 
 
                             noise            waste gas             waste gas 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                   
noise 
 
 
 
 
 
After purchasing the fresh kelp, dry the kelp or not depending on the quantity. In case of small quantity, 
the fresh kelp can be directly cleaned by the industrial cleaner to remove off the impurity before steamed 
under high temperature and pressure. Then for smashed powder, it is simple to dry, smash and pack; but 
for sprayed powder, necessary to be further grinded, off the stench and then packed in vacuum.   
 
 
2\1fProcess of iodine sauce\1f 
 
 
                                            waste water solid waste   waste gas      noise 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First
 carry out physical and chemical index test on the material to ensure them up to edible standards, 
cleaned, steamed under high temperature and pressure, grinded, filtered, and colored. Then in crease the 
content of amino acid and iodine; promote the luster through filter, concentrated in vacuum after 
sterilization.  
 
 
 
Fresh kelp 
Dr
y
in
g
Dip in
Cleanout
 
steam 
grind 
off the 
th
sprayed powder 
pack
 
Dryin
grind
Fresh kelp 
Deepfreeze 
dip in 
Cleanout 
steam
grind 
Select 
Proportioning
 
filter 
sterilization
vacuumize 
deposited 
Page  207
 
 46
 
 
 
 
Page  208
 
 47
 
Brief introduction 
 
3\1fProcess of kelp threads\1f 
                         waste water solid waste              Kelp ends\1fnoise 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First clean the fresh kelp to remove the impurity. Select the good which is cut into threads, sterilized by 
microwave to keep the original taste and then packed in vacuum. 
 
   
Raw material and energy
\1f   
1
\01
 Raw material\1ffresh kelp 3000-ton kelp powder needs 18,000 ton fresh kelp and sauce needs 1670 
tons fresh kelp; 2000-ton kelp thread needs 3330-ton fresh kelp, 23000 ton fresh kelp in total    
2\1fenergy\1fas for this project, annually consume water of 250000 tons, electricity of 2 million degree and 
cost of 1200 tons. 
 
Main pollution procedure and discharge
\1f      
1
\01
 waste waster\1f     
<fi
production waste water\1fIt is mainly the wastewater generated due to cleaning fresh kelp, and 
annual discharge is about 220000 tons.     
=fi
life waste water\1fproduction days are 300 days in a year. There are 106 employees. If everyone 
discharge 0.1-ton waste water a day, 3180-ton waste water is produced every year.      
2\1f waste gas\1f      
<fi
boiler smoke\1fthere is one 4-ton boiler, consuming 1200 ton coal every year and producing 12.48 
million square meters waste gas    
=fi
Dining-room smoke
\1fwaste gas discharge is 4000mg/m3. 
>fi
stench\1fmuch stench is produced      
3\1fsolid waste\1f      
<fi
Sands and impurities while cleaning the fresh kelp, and waste kelp while cutting the kelp into 
thread, about 230 tons every year.      
=fi
coal cinder\1fconsuming 1200 ton coal and producing 360 ton coal cinder  
>fi
Life waste: if everyone produces 0.5 kg waste every day, 15.9-ton life waste is produced every year. 
 
Main production equipments\1f      
2 sets of driers, 2 sets of cleaners, 2 sets of grinders, 2 sets of steamers, 1 sets of blending machine, 1 
sets of microwave drying sterilizer, 1 set of mixer, 1 set of micro smasher, 1 set of sterilizer, 2 sets of 
vacuum packing machine, 1 set of pouring equipment, 2 sets of soaking machines, 2 sets of cutter, 1 set 
of filter and 1 4-ton boiler. 
 
Fresh kelp 
cleaned 
Select
c
sterilization
 
vacuumize 
Deepfreeze
 
Page  209
 
 48
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main Pollutants and discharge 
 
Contents 
Types 
Sources Pollutant 
Pre-density & annual 
discharge (unit) 
Discharge density & 
annual volume (unit) 
Boiler SO
2 
\1fsmoke 
Waste gas\1f12.48 million 
square meters\1fSO2 28.8 
tons\1fsmoke\1f51.5 tons 
Waste gas\1f12.48 million 
square meters\1fSO2 
11.2tons\1fsmoke\1f2.5tons
Dining-room Smoke 
Waste gas 
volume\1f4000m3/h 
smoke\1f14-20mg/m3 
Waste gas 
volume\1f4000m3/h 
smoke\1f14-20mg/m3 
Air pollutant 
Fresh kelp 
Stench 
/ 
/ 
Cleaning 
water 
CODcr\1fSS, 
etc. 
Waste water\1f220,000tons 
CODcr\1f500mg/L 
SS\1f300mg/L 
Waste water\1f223,180 
tons CODcr\1f500mg/L 
SS\1f300mg/L 
Water pollutant 
Life waste 
water 
CODcr\1fSS, 
etc. 
Waste water\1f3180 tons 
CODcr\1f400mg/L 
SS\1f150mg/L 
 
Boiler 
Coal cinder 
360 tons 
360 tons 
Process of 
kelp 
Sand and waste 
kelp 
Sands\1f115 tons waste 
kelp\1f115 tons 
sands\1f115 tons waste 
kelp\1f115 tons 
Solid waste 
Life waste 
/ 
15.9 tons 
15.9 tons 
Noise 
Grinder, smasher, cutter 
Page  210
 
 49
Others  
 
Main ecological effects. Upon the accomplishment of this project, all agricultural fields and ponds will have
turned into industri8al sites. The-effects and changes on ecological environment is permanent. 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis of environmental effects 
 
Page  211
 
 50
Brief analysis of environmental effects during construction:  
 
Including piling, structure, building up decoration, transporting and paving. Main pollutants are 
noise and building waste and rain waster at the construction site. Besides, dust affects the 
surrounding environment.  
 
1
\09
 
Air environment prevention, to build up walls around the construction fields and safety    
net around the building to prevent the broken stones from the surrounding environment. Mine and 
pile the earth and move away the building waste in time. Regularly water the road and building 
material against dust. 
2
\09
 
Water environment prevention: Rainwater sewage, slurry sewage and deposited water on 
the site should be collected and then treated in settlement tank. Then the upper clean liquid is 
drained into rivers through draining ditches. Well dispose life waste water. Set up temporary 
living facilities, oil separation at kitchen, toilet, drain off the life waste after disposal. 
3
\09
  Noise prevention: during construction, adopt advanced machines and technics to make the 
noise up to the standards at construction site. If necessary, construction at night shall be reported 
to environmental protection administration for approval with “Night Operation License”  
 
 
 
 
 
Page  212
 
 51
 
 
Analysis of Environmental effects during operation\1f     
 
1
\01
 Waste gas disposal and analysis of environmental effects      
<fi
boiler smoke\1fmake the discharge of smoke and SO2 up to standards to reduce the 
effects on the surrounding environment.      
=fi
dining-room smoke\1fthrough smoke filter up to GWPB5-2000 “Catering Smoke 
Discharge Standards (Trial)”, discharged in air to reduce the effects on the 
surrounding environment.  
>fi
stench\1fabsorb collectively and discharged in air after spray, affecting the 
surrounding environment to some extent.     
2\1fwaste water disposal and analysis of environmental effects 
<fi
production waste water\1fmainly cleaning water, first up to standards of the waste 
water disposal plant in the park after sediment, physical and chemical disposal. Then up to 
standards II of GB8978-1996 “Waste Water Discharge Standard” before drained off to Shipu 
Port.  
=fi
life waste water\1ffirst to the sewage network in the park, then drained off after 
disposed by waste water disposal plant  
3\1fsolid waste disposal and analysis of environmental effects     
<fi
coal cinder\1fused to pave the road or as raw materials for bricks, not affecting the 
surrounding environment    
=fi
sands in the waste cleaning water can be used to pave the road, to dispose the 
impurities together with the life waste, the waste kelp can be as the raw material for kelp 
powder, hardly affecting the surrounding environment.    
4\1fNoise control and analysis of environmental effects: noise is mainly produced by 
smasher and other production equipments. Try not to trouble the around residents by 
separating the noise and adjusting the distance.     
5\1fAnalysis of environmental risks: small the raw material is fresh kelp, there shall be 
aquatic base. Delay in the collection of fresh kelp may destroy the ocean environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  213
 
 52
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention & Results 
 
         Type 
Content  
Sources (No.) 
Pollutants 
Prevention 
Results 
Boiler SO
2 
\1fsmoke Dusting 
Up to standards, little 
effect 
Dining-room Smoke 
Dusting 
Up to standards, little 
effect 
Air pollutant 
Fresh kelp 
Stench 
Spray 
Affecting the 
environment to some 
extent 
Cleaning water 
CODcr\1fSS, etc. 
Water pollutant 
Life waste water 
CODcr\1fSS, etc. 
Sediment 
Up to standards of 
waste water plant, little 
effect 
Boiler Coal 
cinder 
To pave road or be raw 
materials for bricks 
As resources 
Process of kelp 
Coal cinder\1fwaste kelp 
Coal cinder\1fto pave the 
roads\1fwaste kelp\1fBe 
raw materials for kelp 
products 
As resources 
Solid waste 
Life waste 
 
To cleaning system 
Harmless 
Noise 
Up to standards, little effect 
Others  
Ecological prevention and results: man shall cut the kelp in time to prevent the corrupted kelp from destroying the off Sea 
environment. 
 
Conclusions and Suggestions
 
 
Page  214
 
 53
Conclusions\1f 
The establishment of this project can be beneficial to the development of kelp aquaculture, better 
help in the fishers to shift the industry.  
 
Suggestions:  
Carry out cleaning production, increase the green area, and beautify the environment. Enhance 
the consciousness and management in environment protection. While developing economy, 
responsible to protect the environment, purchase the fresh kelp from time to time against 
corrupted kelp, which may destroy the off sea environment. 
 
 
 
Page  215
 
 54
Ratification opinion: 
In principle, we agree with Xiangshan Environment-protection Monitoring-station’s environment-
evaluation suggestions on the alga water-products manufacture project of 
Ningbo Chaoxing Marine Life 
Product Co. Ltd.
 This project belongs to newly-established projects, its establishment will benefit the 
development of our county’s alga cultivation industry and improve the continuous development of ocean 
fishing. 
The construction unit must strictly execute the “three simultaneities” system and carry out all the 
environment-protection measures required in environment-evaluation. During the implementation process of 
this project, the following aspects must be performed. 
1. Fully generalize cleanness craftwork, reduce water-using volume from the beginning, reuse the 
treated wastes-water as possible, cut down the total volume of drain-sewage. 
    2. Make rain-sewage separately flow inside the factory district, reduce the treating volume of waste-water. 
The production sewage, employee life-using water should be treated under the second grade, only when it 
has reached to GB8978-1996 “ Sewage General Drain-out Standard” second grade, can it be drained out or 
reused. 
3. Solid wastes must be piled at fixed point, the cinder can be used to fill roads or act as raw materials 
to make bricks, the kelp-head can be reused, and the living wastes can be brought into city cleanness-
transportation system. 
4. Fishy-gas produced during the fishy-elimination manufacturing process should be collected, after 
acid-alkali spray and absorption, be drained out in high altitude.  
5. The construction unit should apply for experimental-manufacture in time to environment-
p
rotection 
departments after the accomplishment of this project, when it has been examined and accepted, the project 
can be put into normal function.  
Measures above are expected to be carried out carefully by the construction unit.  
We approve the 
Ningbo Chaoxing Marine Life Product Co. Ltd 
a construction project with an annual 
production of kelp-powder 3000 tons, kelp sauce 1000 tons and kelp silk 2000 tons.  
Page  216
 
 55
Xiangshan Environment-protection Bureau
13
th
 Aug, 2003 
Analysis on Environmental Effect during Operation Period\1f 
1. Waste Gas Treatment and Analysis on Environmental Effect 
<fi
Boiler Flue Gas: the flue gas is dedusted and desulfurized through water film, so that 
the flue gas and sulfur dioxide can meet the specified standards before discharged to 
the atmosphere. So flue gas will not cause great effect on surrounding environment.  
=fi
Oil smoke emitted from canteen: meet GWPB5-2000 “Oil Smoke Draining Standards 
for Catering Trade (for Trial Implementation)” by applying oil smoke 
decontaminating apparatus and then is piped to high sky and discharged to 
atmosphere. Therefore the oil smoke from canteen will have little effect on 
surrounding environment.  
>fi
Fishy gas\1fmainly comes from the fishy smell caused during production process. 
Fishy gas will be discharged in high sky after it is centrally collected and sprinkled 
with acid and alkaline liquid, so it has some influence on surrounding environment.  
2. Water Pollution Treatment and Analysis on Environmental Effect 
This project consumes 250,000T water a year, and about 223,180 T of wastewater will be 
drained a year, including domestic wastewater of about 3180T a year. The wastewater mainly 
contains COD
cr
, BOD
5
 and suspension etc. Empirical value of quality of various wastewater is 
shown in following table: 
 
Contaminant 
Wastewater Type 
COD
cr
 BOD
5
 SS 
 
Production 
wastewater 
500 350 300 
Domestic wastewater 
400 
200 
100 
The wastewater produces 111.272 ton COD
cr
, 577.636 ton BOD and 66.318 ton SS. 
Production wastewater, domestic wastewater produced from employee living and wastewater 
produced from canteen is treated via primary physical chemistry treatment process such as bar 
rack and settling, and then is drained to the Park Sewage Treatment Plant after it meets the 
requirement for entering the network of this plant. This factory plans to apply the wastewater 
pre-treatment process below:  
  
                                Chemicals                 Wastewater 
e  
Drain to sewage piping\1f                                    
of treatment plant 
 
                                              Mud 
Wastewater 
Bar rack
  
flocculator-
settin
g
 tan
k
Settling 
tank
Page  217
 
 56
Wastewater will be profoundly treated in the sewage treatment plant of the Industrial Park after 
pre-treatment. This sewage treatment plant is designed to treat the sewage jointly in physical 
chemistry method and biochemical method. For physical chemistry treatment, matured and 
reliable pressure vessel air-float system is used, and for biochemical treatment, CAST 
biochemical technique is applied. The detail flowchart is as follows:  
 Drain 
 Alkaline 
 
 
 
 Fan 
 
 
 
 
In different stages, removal rate is expected to reach following values: 
Item 
Treatment unit 
COD
cr
(mg/L) BOD
5
(mg/L) SS(mg/L) 
Designed inlet water quality 
2000 
1200 
400 
Inlet water 
2000 
1200 
400 
Outlet 
water 
600 360 100 
Air float 
system 
Removal rate 
% 
70 70 75 
Inlet 
water 
600 360 100 
Outlet water 
420 
288 
95 
Facultative  
aerobe tank 
Removal rate 
% 
30 20  5 
Inlet water 
420 
288 
95 
Outlet water 
120 
29 
60 
CAST tank 
Removal rate 
% 
71 90 37 
Total removal rate % 
94 
97.6 
85 
Class 2 Standards 
150 
30 
150 
(Please refer to “Environmental Effect Report of First-stage Development Zone of Xiangshan 
Shipu Aquatic Product Industrial Park” for wastewater treatment process data) 
Through aforesaid process treatment, the sewage meets Class 2 Standard of GB8978-1996 
“Overall Sewage Draining Standards” and then is drained to the sea, so it will not exercise great 
influence on water quality in near waters.  
This project separates rainwater drain from sewage drain. Rainwater is drained to inland rivers 
after being collected in piping network, and will not exercise great influence on the environment.  
3. Solid Waste Treatment and Analysis on Environmental Effect 
Pre-treat 
Wet sludge tank 
Conditio
n
ing 
Air float system 
Box filter press
Facultative  
Transp
t
CAST 
Page  218
 
 57
a) Coal slag\1fused for filling roads or used as raw materials for manufacturing bricks 
in brick and tile factories, which is a resource after treatment and will not exercise 
influence on surrounding environment.  
b) The mud and sands obtained after settling of cleaning wastewater, can be filled in 
the roads, and the foreign matters can be treated together with household refuse. 
Kelp ends and other wastes can be used as raw materials for producing the feedstuff 
---pulverized kelp. So little effect is exercised on the surrounding environment.  
c) Household refuse\1fto be cleared away by local environmental protection agency 
and is treated for harmless purpose in Shipu Town Rubbish Clearing and 
Transporting System. So it will not exercise great influence on environment. 
4. Noise Control Measures and Analysis on Environmental Effect 
The noise is mainly produced from pulverizing mills and other mechanical equipment. Sound 
barrier is applied and the houses result in noise attenuation, therefore the noise outside of the 
factory area will meet the specified standards and will not disturb the residents nearby.  
5. Analysis on Environmental Risks 
The raw material used for this project is fresh kelp, therefore there must be some marine breeding 
base. As the farmers engaging kelp breed possibly will not cut their kelps in time or due to other 
reasons, kelp maybe get rotten and cause damage to sea environment.  
Page  219
 
 58
Prevention & Treatment Actions and Expected Treatment Effect: 
 
Con
clusi
on 
and 
Sugg
estio
ns\1f 
Con
clusi
on\1f 
This 
proje
ct 
will 
bene
fit 
the 
devel
opm
ent 
of 
kelp 
bree
ding 
secto
r, 
and 
lay a 
foun
datio
n for 
fishers to change to other professions. Meanwhile, it will also protect marine wild fishery 
resources and ecological environment of the sea and promote sustainable development of marine 
fishery. If related environmental protection laws and regulations and standards can be strictly 
executed during construction of the project, and all environmental protection measures proposed 
in this report can be strictly implemented, this project is feasible from the angle of environmental 
protection. 
Suggestions\1f 
Item 
Type 
Emission 
source\1fNumber\1f 
Name of 
Pollutants 
Prevention & 
Treatment Actions  
Expected Treatment Effect 
Boiler  
SO2 and soot 
Dedusting and 
desulphurization  
Meet the specified 
standards\1fand have little 
effect on the environment 
Canteen  
Oil smoke 
Purifying and 
dedusting 
meet the specified 
standards\1fand have little 
effect on the environment 
Atmospheric 
pollutants  
Fresh kelp 
Fishy gas 
Sprinkling with 
acid and alkaline 
have some negative  effect 
on the environment 
Washing 
wastewater 
CODcr, 
BOD5 and 
SS, etc 
Water 
pollutants  
Domestic sewage  
CODcr and 
SS, etc 
Settling in physical 
chemistry methods 
meet the specified standards 
for sewage to entering the 
network of the sewage 
treatment plant of the Park, 
and  have little effect on the 
environment 
Boiler  
Coal slag 
Filling in roads or 
as raw materials for 
production in brick 
and tile factory 
Transferred into useful 
resource 
Kelp processing  
Mud slag, kelp 
end, other 
wastes 
Mud slag\1ffilling in 
roads 
Kelp ends\1fraw 
material for 
feedstuff –
pulverized kelp 
Transferred into useful 
resource 
Solid wastes 
Household refuse 
 
Treated in urban 
rubbish clearing 
and transporting 
system 
Harmless 
Noises  
By taking insulation and attenuation measures, noises meet specified standards and has 
little effect on the environment. 
Others  
Ecological Protection Measures and Expected Effect\1f 
The farmers engaging kelp breed should cut their kelps in time, prevent kelp from getting rotten and causing 
damage to ecological environment of the sea. 
Page  220
 
 59
Execute clean production in an overall way, and ensure “three ‘same time’s ” (namely the project 
and related environmental protection facility should be designed at the same time, constructed at 
the same time and completed and put into use at the same time). Provide landscape within factory 
area and borderlines, and beautify the environment, strengthen environmental protection view and 
management of the whole staff, and do the best to ensure environmental protection while 
developing economy.  
The fresh kelps produced by the farmers should be purchased at any time, so that the farmers 
engaging kelp breed would not cut their kelps in overdue time, causing kelp to get rotten in the 
sea and causing damage to ecological environment in near waters. 
 
 
Sea Weed Aquatic Products Processing Project 
 
 
 
 
 
Social Evaluation Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  221
 
 60
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ningbo Chaoxing Marine Life Product Co. Ltd. 
July 30
th
 2003 
 
 
Social Evaluation Report for Sea Weed Aquatic Products Processing Project  
 
I. 
Effect of project construction on local area 
This project and the project company is located in Xiangshan, Zhejian, which is one of the six largest 
central fishing harbors of our country, with  300000-mu bottomland and 800km coastline. This port 
provides excellent growth environment for kelp cultivation. The peasants growing by sea have a long 
history and rich experience in aquatic product cultivation, and supply kelps, purple laver and other 
sea-weed products of 200,000 tons. But these products are processed simply, or even the coarse 
products that are not processed and are sold at low prices. Let’s have a look at Xiangshan’s aquatic 
product processing industry: 98% of the enterprises in this industry are the enterprises that process 
aquatic animals (for example, fishes, shrimps and seashells), and there is one small enterprise 
processing aquatic plants, such kelps and purple laver. Our company develops this project just based 
on full market investigation. It will be very significance to increasing enthusiasm of cultivation fishers 
and added value of products, and realizing sustainable development of marine ecology.     
 
II. 
Effect of the project on local revenue and tax 
Page  222
 
 61
After its construction is completed, this project will have production capacity of 6000 ton kelp 
products per year, and realize sales income of RMB61 million as well as profit and tax of RMB20.13 
million in normal-operation years. In normal-operation years, the project’s income tax will reach 
RMB3.2731 million at average based on 33%, and mean profit after income tax will amount to 
RMB6.6455 million. Public welfare fund will amount to RMB332300 at average if it is calculated 
based on 5% of after-tax profit\1fand legal common reserve fund will amount to RMB 664600 if it is 
calculated based on 10% of after-tax profit. Our company will pay the taxes according to related laws 
and regulations and make due contribution to the development of local economy.  
III. 
Effect on local labor employment and women employment 
After completion, this project can provide about 90 jobs, and can arrange for about 30 women to do 
the jobs that require low labor intensity and careful work. It also can provide jobs with high safety 
factor and simple operation to the disabled. 
IV. 
Effect on fisher settlement 
According to the statistics in 1999, there were 4000 fishing boats of various sizes in Xiangshan, 
including 1500 steel fishing boats with great horsepower. Xiangshan has 5335m
2
 sea area, and 
because of unplanned excessive fishing, marine resource has been reduced with each passing day, and 
there happens risks in survival of fishing sector, which forces some of the fishers to seek for other 
way out for their living. Considering local characteristics and that kelp has features of improving 
water quality,kelp cultivation is undoubtedly a project that does not require advanced technology and 
high investment, have high return on investment, and can improve marine environment. Our company 
can purchase the kelps cultivated by fishers through signing contracts with them, and make 
contributions to the transformation of fisher production. After fishers cultivate kelp, the project, after 
completion, will help 300 fishers to transform their production if every fisher can produce 290 ton 
fresh kelp a year. Due to manpower demand, these fishers need to employ 200 workers. Thus, the 
project can provide indirect job opportunities to 600 fishers and their family members.  After the 
contract takes effect, our company will purchase fishers’ kelps at protected prices. According to 
Page  223
 
 62
approximate calculation, the fishers engaging kelp cultivation can earn more RMB48000 after 
production transformation.  
V. 
Effect on local economic and social stability  
We can say that sea-weed aquatic product development carried out by our company can both improve 
marine environment and provide employments to the society, and offer assistance in the government 
solving issues related with fisher production transformation. It is of much significance to the 
improvement of local economy and upgrading of local processing level and grades and realization of 
sustainable development of marine resources, and can produce apparent social, ecological and 
economic benefits. Therefore, this project can be called a good thing that have favorable effects in 
many fields and is good to the country and people. 
 
Page  224
 
 63
U. Developments item environment influence  
V. report 
 
 
 
Project name:About Seafood Machining Use WB  
International Loan Project 
Project undertaker:
XIANSHAN HUYI SEAFOOD CO.,LTD.
 
 
 
 
Compiling Date:Aug.2003 
Supervised by State General Environment Protection Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responsibility List 
 
Evaluation unit:  Xiangshan Environmental Supervising and Protecting Station 
 
Person in charge of Evaluation unit: Shi yaqin  
 
Page  225
 
 64
Person in charge of the project: Shi yaqin (environment evaluation postNo.13844) 
 
With regard to the 
assessor
assessor
assessor
assessor
 
Name specialty 
the title of 
a technical 
post 
Post No. 
Duty 
signatur
e
Ni 
Jianzhong 
Environmental 
Supervising
 
engineer 
Environment 
evaluation post
No.C20150002 
Auditing 
 
Si yeqin 
Environmental 
Supervising
 
assistant 
engineer 
Environment 
evaluation post
No.C20150003 
Report 
compiling 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compiling Basis: 
 
Page  226
 
 65
 
1. Environment Protection and Management regulations [1998]No. 253 by the State Council of 
PRC. 
2. General Technical Evaluating Rule of Environment Influence HJ/T2.1-2.3-93\1fHJ/T2.4-95\1f 
3. Reply to Environment Function Distribution of. Floor Water Environment of Zhejiang Province 
issued by people’s government of Zhejiang province[1996]No.91 
4. Reply to the plan of Ningbo Environmental Atmosphere Quality Function distribution No.67 
[1997] Ningbo Municipal Government. 
5. Feasibility Report on Project of Pellet Food Processing Based on the Loan of World Bank 
authorized by Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Co., Ltd. 
6.Reply to the plan of Report on Project of Pellet Food Processing with Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic 
Food Co., Ltd Is issued by Xiangshan County Development Planning Bureau No.50[2003] 
 
Page  227
 
 66
 
 
General Introduction to the Project 
Project 
description 
 
About Seafood Finish Machining use WB International Loan Project
 
Construction unit 
XIANGSHAN HUAYI SEAFOOD CO., LTD. Ningbo P.R. China 
Project legal 
representative 
Yu fuchun 
Person in 
charge 
Yu yongchun 
Address 
No .481 west road shanhe industrial demonstration area of Xiangshan  
Telephone 
13968363388 
Fax 
0574-65730123 
Post 
315700 
Construction site 
industrial demonstration area of Xiangshan 
Project- 
establishinG 
Dept. 
Xiangshan County  
Development Planning 
Bureau 
Warrant file No. 
NO.54[2003] 
Construction style 
New
\01‘
 ¥
Rebuild 
&continuation
\01‘
 
Technology innovation 
\01‘
 
Line sort and code 
1320 
Land area 
20000
M
2
 
Afforestation 
area
\1f
M
2
\1f
 
3400
 M
2
 
Totalinvest 
(10000YUAN) 
3399.45 
Among which:  
environmental 
protection invest 
(10000YUAN) 
80 
T
he rat
e 
of
  
environmental 
protection invest
 
2.% 
Evaluation 
expense 
 
Estimated product 
date  
Dec.2005\1f12\1f 
Page  228
 
 67
Construction scale and content 
Background: 
Xiangshan County is a big fishery county in Zhejiang Province. As the offshore fishery 
resource is in exhaustion in the recent years, the mudflat and cage culture is under fast 
development. However, the culture of aquatic products develops very slowly because of the high 
cost of the products for culture and the unstable supply. The fishery resource has been in 
exhaustion and the efficiency is very low over years. In this background, a high-grade enterprise 
engaged in the products for aquatic culture will be a golden key to the sustainable development 
of aquatic culture in Xiangshan. 
Project description
\1f
 
1,the area of land: 20,000\1f,the area of construct: 14591\1f.Cold store:5200\1f 
finish machining workshop:2,500\1f,rough machining workshop: 2,000\1f,adjunction and 
others:4,891\1f. 
2,forecast throughput: annual products 1,560MT
.
 Thereinto:Sea bass800MT,Seasoned Partion 
400MT,Dried Sea Bass Filets80MT,Cooked Sea Bass Filets80MT,Seabass Partion200MT. 
 
Pollution and main environmental problems 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  229
 
 68
 
General Introduction of nature, society environment in Construction site 
General conditions of nature 
1. Geographical location\1fChina Aquatic Products Town schedule II Shipu Aquatic Products Processing Zone. It is near the 
highway, the traffic and environment condition is quite good. Shipu town is close to the fishing ground of East Sea is one of t
he 
famous fishery ports in China. She connects Xinqiao and Dingtang in the north, Sanmen gulf in the west, there are Hepu and 
Gaotang at the other side of the harbor in the south, Damuyang and Maotouyang in the east.  
2. Geology and physiognomy: The town belongs to low hilly land area, hilly land and island cover 70% of the total town area. 
The old town locates at a narrow valley near gulf, houses are built at the foot of the mountain, and streets incline sloping la
dder. 
The altitude in the town ranges from 20-28 meters, along the harbor, the average altitude is 3-4 meters. The highest, 394 meter
s, 
locates at the west of town, is named as Kingshan. 
3. Climate: Xiangshan locates at the northern edge of subtropical zone, and it belongs to the typical subtropical monsoon 
climate. It is warm and humid with distinct four seasons. In winter, under the influence of the cold air mass, the weather is 
steady and most of the time it is sunny and cold; in spring the cold air mass weakens, the Pacific-sub-high atmosphere 
strengthens, sometimes they move back and sometimes they move forward, so the weather is unsteady. In the early spring, the 
sub-high atmosphere and the cold air mass are locked in a stalemate, thus the static peak forms, in some places there are 
typhoon and other disastrous weather such as heavy storm and big spring tide, in spring the sub-high atmosphere weakens, 
sometimes there will be continuous rain. It prevail southeast wind in summer and northeast in winter. Destructive atmospheric 
conditions, such as frost, low temperature, storm, ice, drought\1ftyphoon, heavy rain, cold wave is familiar. 
4.Meteorological character: 
Annual average temperature: 16.2 C   Annual average temperature in January: 5.4 \1f 
Annual average temperature in July : 5.4 \1f  Annual lowest temperature : -7.5 (Jan.16,1961) 
Highest temperature: 38.8 (Aug.20,1971)  Annual average wind speed: 5.5m/s 
Annual max rainfall: 1956.2mm  Annual min rainfall: 770.6 mm 
Annual average rainfall:1308 mm  Annual relative humidity:80% 
Annual average sunshine :1707.lhr  Annual non-frost time:235d 
\06fi
 Annual average rainfall:1392 mm   Annual average rainy day:23d 
Max rainfall in the day: 281.6 mm  Max rainy day: 23d 
Annual max rainfall: 1756.2mm(1976)  Annual min rainfall: 770.6 mm(1967) 
\06fi
 Annual relative humidity:80%   Annual average sunshine : 2025.8.lhr   
Annual non-frost time:235d 
\06fi
Prevailing wind: north wind in winter and southeast wind in summer. 
     Annual average wind speed: 5.5m/s   Max instantaneous wind speed:58m/s 
\06fi
 Annual average highest seawater temperature in the sea area of Shipu port:30\1f Lowest seawater temperature:8\1f 
5.Hydrogphic and tide: 
\06fi
The sewage disposal area in this evaluation project is the Shipu harbor. The port connects the continents in the northwest, 
and there are 5 islands around the harbor shaped line from northeast to southwest in the east. In the west, composed by 5 
wasterways, connects tightly with Sanmen Gulf. The main center liner of the harbor is 18 kilometers long, 0.4-3 
kilometers wide, covers about 27 square kilometers, water deep 4-33 meters.  
\06fi
The tide belongs to normal half-day tide. The average high tide is 2.14meters, and low tide -1.4m. Tide floods from 
southeast entrances, while the ebb-tide is on the contrary.  
 
Page  230
 
 69
Brief Introduction to the social environment (including social economic construction, 
education, culture and culture relic protection etc.) 
\06fi
Xiangshan locates between Xiangshan Port and Sanmen Port, north latitude 28°15’18”-
29°39’42”, east longitude 121°34’03”-122°17’30”. The territory comprises east Xiangshan 
peninsula and 608 islands, the total land area is 1175Km2, the sea area is 5000Km2, the 
population is 5.28million. The capital locates at Dancheng town. Xiangshan is one of the 
main fishery regions in Zhejiang Province. She is teeming with hairtail, yellow croaker, 
pomfret, and cuttlefish. Shrimp, oyster, kelp, laver are also cultivated there. Transportation 
there is convenient,\1fthe main ports including Shipu port and Hepu port. Architecture is 
famous in Shanghai, Hangzhou, Ningbo and other middle and large cities. 
\06fi
Shipu is 36 Km far from Dancheng, it covers 86.6 Km
2
 land area, 70 villages and 20 
residential area. 
\06fi
The population is around 70,429 in 2000, among which, 26772 are town resident. Shipu is 
a main port in trading in this province. The port is flourishing with all kinds of aquatic 
products including hairtail, eel, cuttlefish, pomfret, yellow croaker, shuttle crab and 
shrimps. According to the statistics provided by the town government, the total output of 
industry and agriculture was 3.3billionRMB in 2000, among which, 2.1 billion was 
industrial output, and 1.2 billion was made by agriculture and fishery. Main industrial lines 
are marine products processing and built and repair of shipping vessels. The traffic in 
Shipu town is convenient in both land and water way. She can reach Liaoning province and 
Tianjin city in the north, Sha city in the west, Hainan and Guangdong province in the south 
by sea. Her passenger liners are directly sailing to Shanghai\1fJiaojiang\1fShengjiamen and 
other harbors along the sea. The harbor, famous for its calm space, covering 27 square 
kilometers, can berth 10,000 fish ships, big as 5000T ships, can also easily sail pass the 
harbor. There are many kinds of industries in Shipu, main industries are refrigerating and 
processing aquatic food. At present there are 200 refrigerating warehouses\1frefrigerating 
capacity 30000tons\1fdaily refrigerating capacity 2000tons. 
With the development of economy, culture, education and sanitation are improved too. Now 
there are two complete high school, an vocational school of aquatic products, an adults’ 
technical school, 2 junior middle schools, 31 elementary schools, The rate of compulsory 
education is up to 99% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Present Environment Quality Condition 
Page  231
 
 70
 
Present Environment Quality Condition and major environment problem 
in 
project site 
1.Water environment in sea area: Ningbo Environmental Supervising Center had convention 
inspection to the region in 2001, and the inspected results compared to SEA WATER 
QUALITY STANDARD GB1097-1997shows: except the inorganic nitrogen exceed the fourth 
class water quality standard, other index all meet the third class sea water requirement in 
Referring to The adjusted scheme of environmental functional distribution in the near sea in 
Zhejiang province  
2.Atmosphere: the atmosphere in Shipu town is quite good, according the supervision by 
Xiangshan, meets the class II standard in ENVIRONMENTAL AIR QUALITY STANDARD 
GB3095-1996 
3.Noise: According the supervision by Xiangshan environmental supervising station in 2002, 
the noise in the project site meet the third class of GB 3096-93 Environmental Noise Standard 
in city area. 
The main environment protection aim: 
  1.
 
Environment atmosphere
 
protection class: the class II standard in ENVIRONMENTAL 
AIR QUALITY STANDARD GB3095-1996 
2. The sea water quality aim: In referring to The adjusted scheme of environmental functional 
distribution in the near sea in Zhejiang province, sea water meet the class III in SEA WATER 
QUALITY STANDARD GB1097-1997shows. 
3. Environment noise
 
protection class: the class III of GB 3096-93 Environmental Noise 
Standard in city area. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation applicable Standard 
Page  232
 
 71
 
Page  233
 
 72
Environment quality standard 
1.Environment atmosphere
:
 the class II standard in ENVIRONMENTAL AIR 
QUALITY STANDARD GB3095-1996 
                                      Unit : mg/m
3
 
 annual 
average 
daily 
average 
hourly 
average 
SO
2
 0.06 
0.15 
0.50 
NO
2
 0.05 
0.10 
0.15 
TSP 0.2 
0.3 
/ 
 
2. Water environment in sea area: According to the adjusted scheme of 
environmental functional distribution in the near sea in Zhejiang province, execute the 
class IV in SEA WATER QUALITY STANDARD GB1097-1997shows. 
Unit\1fmg/L 
Parameter 
PH DO 
COD
Mn
BOD
5
 
Inorgani
c 
Nitrogen 
Active 
Phosphate 
Standard 6.8-
8.8 
\1f3  
 ”
5m 
 ”
5 
 ”
0.5 
 ”
0.045 
Water environment in sea area: According to the adjusted scheme of environmental 
functional distribution in the near sea in Zhejiang province, execute the class IV in 
SEA WATER QUALITY STANDARD GB1097-1997shows. 
 
3. Environment noise: The noise in factory zone under this item is up to the third 
class of GB 3096-93 Environmental Noise Standard in city area.
     
                 Leq[dB
\1f
A
\1f
]
 
Classification Daytime 
Night 
3 65 
55 
 
Page  234
 
 73
Foul Pollutant Drainage Standard 
1.Waste gas\1f\1fThe oil smoke in dining room is up to Diet Industry Oily smoke 
Drainage Standard GW pb5-2000. 
Scale Small 
Middle 
Large 
The number of cooking stove 
 •
1, \1f3 
 •
3, \1f6 
 •
6 
General power of stoves\1f10
8
J/h\1f
1.67, \1f5.00 
 •
5.00, \1f10 
 •
10 
General project area of drainage 
of exhaust covers\1fm
2
\1f 
 •
1.1,\1f3.3 
 •
3.3,\1f6.6 
 •
6.6 
Max drainage density (mg/m
3
) 2.0 
Min removing rate of 
Cleaning machine (%) 
60 75 
85 
\1fH
2
S\1f(CH3)2NH execute the Class II standard in Foul Pollutant Drainage Standard 
GB 14554-93. 
       Standard 
Item 
Factory 
standard\1fmg/\1f
\1f
\1f 
waste water drainage standard  
\1fthe length of tail 
pipe:15m\1f\1fmg/\1f
\1f
\1f 
H
2
S 0.06 
0.33 
(CH3)2NH 0.08 
0.54 
 
2.   Waste water is drained according to the third class of Waste Water 
Comprehensive Drainage GB8978-1996, but industrial district administration committee 
plans to deal with comprehensively waste water drainage, so each enterprise is allowed 
to drain off waste water according to internal standard. The chart below is part specific 
index.   Unit\1f mg/l 
    Item 
PH 
CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS 
NH
3
-N animal 
and 
plant oil 
Standard(mg/l) 6-9 
2000 
1200 
400 
150 
100 
 The aquatic products processing zone sewage factory execute the second class in Waste 
Water Comprehensive Drainage GB8978-1996 shows: The chart below is part specific 
index.  Unit: mg/l 
Item PH CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS NH
3
-N Phosphat
e 
Standard 6-9 
150 
30 
150 
25 
1.0 
 
3.Noise:The noise in factory zone execute the Class III standard in Noise standard 
of the factory zone GB12348-90 ,that is \1fLeq65dB during daytime ,Leq55dB at night    
The noise in construction area execute The Max Standard Of Noise In Construction 
Area 
GB12523-90
 
     Max standard of noise in construction area    equal acoustics grade dB(A)]  
Max noise 
Constructio
n Process 
construction process 
Daytime Night 
cubic earth 
and stones 
Bulldozer. Excavator. fork-lift 
truck 
75 55 
pile driving 
different pile-drivers 
85 
prohibited 
structure 
blender, vibrator, electric-saw etc. 
70 
55 
fitment crane, 
elevator 
etc. 
65 
55 
 
Page  235
 
 74
t
otal 
polluter 
control 
index
 
 
 
Construction Project Engineering Analysis 
Page  236
 
 75
Processing Flow:
  
1, Frozen Weever filet techniques flow chart and harm analysis 
, Sea bass filet processing techniques flow scheme  
             Fish organs etc.          Waste water         Noise
 
\1f
,raw material purchase
\01:
 adding ice cleanout 
\01:
 classification
\01:
 putting on tray 
\01:
unit of freezing 
\01:
 grade
\01:
 packing 
\01:
 deepfreeze . 
\1f
,Taking materials from warehouse to workshop
\01:
 thaw
\01:
 cut head
\01:
 cut open 
filet
\01:
 mending side 
\01:
 cleanout 
\01:
quick freezing 
\01:
grade 
\01:
unit of freezing 
again 
\01:
weigh 
\01:
wrapping ice
\01:
 packing
\01:
 to detect metal 
\01:
deepfreeze  
2, Seasoned Partion techniques flow 
,Taking materials from warehouse to workshop
\01:
 thaw
\01:
 cut head
\01:
 cut open 
filet
\01:
 mending side
\01:
 cut segment
\01:
 grade
\01:
 cleanout 
\01:
seasoning 
\01:
quick 
freezing 
\01:
packing
\01:
 to detect metal 
\01:
deepfreeze  
3
4), Dried Sea Bass Filets techniques flow chart and harm analysis 
3, Dried Sea Bass Filets processing techniques flow scheme  
\1f
,raw material purchase
\01:
 adding ice cleanout 
\01:
 classification
\01:
 putting on tray 
\01:
unit of freezing 
\01:
 grade
\01:
 packing 
\01:
 deepfreeze . 
\1f,Taking materials from warehouse to workshop
\01:
 thaw
\01:
 cut head
\01:
 cut open 
filet
\01:
 mending side 
\01:
 cleanout 
\01:
condiment 
\01:
lay open fillets 
\01:
drying fillets 
\01:
lift down fillets
\01:
check up
\01:
weigh
\01:
 packing
\01:
deepfreeze  
4, Cooked Sea Bass Filets techniques flow chart and harm analysis 
1, Cooked Sea Bass Filets processing techniques flow scheme  
\1f
,raw material purchase
\01:
 adding ice cleanout 
\01:
 classification
\01:
 putting on tray 
\01:
unit of freezing 
\01:
 grade
\01:
 packing 
\01:
 deepfreeze . 
\1f
,Taking materials from warehouse to workshop
\01:
 thaw
\01:
 cut head
\01:
 cut open 
filet
\01:
 mending side 
\01:
 cleanout 
\01:
condiment 
\01:
lay open fillets 
\01:
drying fillets 
\01:
lift down fillets
\01:
firing
\01:
if relax filets
\01:
check up
\01:
weigh
\01:
 
packing
\01:
deepfreeze  
5, Sea bass Partion techniques flow scheme and harm analysis 
1, Sea bass Partion techniques flow 
\1f
,raw material purchase
\01:
 adding ice cleanout 
\01:
 classification
\01:
 putting on tray 
\01:
unit of freezing 
\01:
 grade
\01:
 packing 
\01:
 deepfreeze . 
\1f
,Taking materials from warehouse to workshop
\01:
 thaw
\01:
 cut head
\01:
 cut open 
filet
\01:
 mending side
\01:
 cut segment
\01:
 grade
\01:
 cleanout 
\01:
seasoning 
\01:
deep 
fry
\01:
quick freezing 
\01:
packing
\01:
 to detect metal 
\01:
deepfreeze  
 
Page  237
 
 76
Main pollutant working procedure & output 
1.Waste water\1f 
\1fIndustrial waste water\1fThe waste water consisted mostly of fish-washing wastewater and 
a little raw material hogwash. The waste water drains off 67,500 tons annually 
 
 
\1fLiving waste water\1fThe waste water drains off 4,500 tons annually 
2.Waste gas\1f 
\1fodd smell\1fThe odd smell mainly comes from the anchovy erosion or in the course of 
processing, and it causes H
2
S\1f(CH3)2NH. 
\1fThe oil smoke in canteen: The waste gas drains off 4000m
3
/h annually 4000m
3
/h, the 
drainage density of oil smoke 14-20mg/m
3
. 
3.Solid trash: 
\1fThis project needs 7,500 tons fresh anchovies, 10% of which are solid trash. 
\1fLiving rubbish: This project requires 120 work staff, annual working day 200days, 
annual living rubbish will be 12 tons.  
Main Producing Equipment\1f 
     
Single freezing machine 1 set,  Ice machines 3 sets, Refrigeration 1 unit\1fPacking meat 
machine 2sets, Metal detecting machine 2 sets, Blender 2 sets, Shaping machine 2 sets, 
Vacuum packer 2 sets, Automatic packer 2 sets
 
  
 
Energy consumption:  
7.5 tons water per year, 1,200,000 degree electricity per year
 
 
 
Resource and let out of pollutant 
 
 
Descripti
on 
Types 
Drainage(No.) Pollutant 
Thickness and 
amount before 
 disposal 
Let out thickness 
and amount 
Dinning room 
Oil smoke 
Waste 
gas\1f4000m
3
/h 
Oil smoke: 
14-20 mg /m
3
 
Waste 
gas\1f4000m
3
/h 
Oil smoke\1f2.0mg 
/m
3
 
Atmosphere 
pollutant 
 
Raw material 
fish 
H
2
S 
(CH3)2NH 
/ 
H
2
S:0.06 mg/L 
(CH3)2NH:0.08m
g/L 
Fish-washing 
wastewater 
CODcr\1fSS 
etc. 
Waster 
water:63000T/Y 
CODcr:2130mg/L 
Water 
pollutant 
 
living water 
CODcr\1fSS 
etc. 
Waster 
wate:0.45T/Y 
CODcr:400mg/L 
Waster 
wate:6.75T/Y 
CODcr:150mg/L 
Page  238
 
 77
Feeding stuff 
processing 
Fish organs 
and  
fish head etc. 
206 Ton/y 
206T/Y 
Solid pollutant 
Living rubbish 
/ 
25.2T/Y 
25.2T/Y 
Noise 
Single freezing machine\1fIce machines etc. caused 
Others  
Main Ecology influence:
 
Croplands and ponds will turn into industrial zone after the completion of this project, thus, it 
will bring un-reserveable influence and change to the ecology of this area. 
 
Environment influence analysis  
 
Brief environment influence analysis during construction  
This project mainly includes stones, piling, framing, wall building, conveyance and pipe-lay. 
The main pollutants are noise resulting from the revolving of the machine, construction rubbish 
and rain water from the construction field. Besides, dust from the loading and unloading of sand, 
stone, concrete, lime will also pollute the surroundings. 
 
1) The protection of atmosphere environment:  
Enclosing walls should be repaired around the construction site, safety netting should be laid 
around the buildings being built, and waste and residue produced during construction should also 
be prevented from influencing the environment. The excavated and abandoned earth in the 
construction site should be explored and piled planningly, the building rubbish and abandoned 
soil should be taken away in time. The road passed by different Transport vehicles should be 
watered regularly, the building materials such as yellow-sand, pebbles, and cement should always 
be watered preventing the form of dust. 
 
2) Prevention and cure of water environment:  
After being collecting and treated by precipitating tank, the clean water from rain sewage, mud 
sewage and accumulated water should be flow into river via. Living waste water should be 
treated properly, temporary facilities should be built, the oil-separating tank should be laid in the 
temporary kitchen of the dinning room. And the toilet and septic tank should be built; the 
pollutant can be flown into rivers after reach the standard. 
 
Page  239
 
 78
3) The prevention and cure of noise influence: 
 Advanced machinery and technology is employed during construction period, noise reaches 
The Noise Standard In Industrial Factory Zone. For the construction tasks that produce noise after 
22:00 during night, if for special purpose, they should be checked and ratified by the 
environmental executive responsible department, after examining and approving The License For 
Night Construction they can be started. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  240
 
 79
Environment influence analysis in operation period 
1.Waste gas disposal and environment influence analysis 
\1fNiff: niff under this project mainly comes from in the process of processing fish and the 
odd smell from the blet fish, after disposal to reach the standard of Foul Pollutant Drainage 
Standard GB14554-93 
\1fDinning oil and smoke: The oil and smoke from dinning room and kitchen should be 
Purified to the standard stipulated in oil and Smoke Drainage Standard in Catering Trade (trial 
edition ) GWpb5-2000, hereafter be discharged to upper air by purifying machine via pipes 
The waste gas caused under this project has little influence to its surroundings. 
2.Waste water disposal and Environment influence analysis 
The project has a total water consumption of 75,000 tons annually in operation. The waste 
water drains off 67,500 tons annually, 4,500 tons of which are living waste water. Waste water 
contains rich nutritious substances such as COD
cr
 , suspended substances, organic compounds, 
nitrogen, phosphorous etc. The chart below is the average statistics of  various water: 
      substances   contained 
 
 
Types of waste water 
COD
Cr
 BOD
5
 SS 
Industrial waste water 
2130 
/ 
1400 
Living waste water 
400 
200 
100 
This project will result in 135.99 tons of COD
cr
, 0.90 tons of BOD
5
, 88.65 tons of SS 
annually. Industrial waste water, living waste water and dinning waste water should, at first 
undertake first class processing such as oil separating and precipitating etc, as soon as the waste 
water after disposal reaches the standard of the sewage treatment plant, leads to the plant and 
drains off to the sea when the waste water is up to the second class of The Standard Of Waste 
Water Drainage GB 8978-1996. 
3.solid trash disposal and environment influence analysis 
The solid trash under this item mainly includes internal organs and remains of the fish made in 
processing, sludge made after processing sewage and living rubbish .The internal organs and 
remains of the fish can be used as the raw materials of fish powder, so it can be supplied to 
powder factory. Sewage processing should be taken to a remote place. The sludge can serves as 
fertilizer. Living rubbish will be disposed by local environmental and sanitary departments.  
4.Noise control measures and environment influence analysis 
Noises mainly come from Dogmeat machine\1fregerating equipments, quick-freezing equipment, 
and they are also made in the process of production as well as by human being. In order to reduce 
the influence to surroundings made by the noises, advanced sound insulating materials are used, 
and greenbelt is developed around workshops. 
 
5.Environment risk analysis 
Big fishing of anchovies may result the decline of its resource, thus destroy the offshore 
ecology balance. 
Page  241
 
 80
 
Measures on Environment Protection and Expected results 
 
Description 
Types 
Drainage(No.) 
Pollution Measures 
Expected 
effect 
Dinning room 
Oil smoke 
Purify and 
get rid of 
the dust 
Up to the standard, 
small influence to 
surroundings. 
Atmosphere 
pollutant 
 
Raw material 
fish 
H
2
S 
(CH3)2NH 
Absorb after 
filter in acid 
and alkali 
Up to the standard, 
 small influence to 
 Surroundings. 
Fish-washing 
wastewater 
CODcr\1fSS etc. 
Water 
pollutant 
 
living water 
CODcr\1fSS etc. 
Deposition 
Up to the standard, 
 small influence to 
 Surroundings. 
Feeding stuff 
processing 
Fish organs and  
fish head etc. 
To fish 
powder as 
powder  
material 
Become resource 
Solid 
pollutant 
Living rubbish 
 
To city 
 sanitary 
system 
Innocuitified 
Noise 
Small influence to surroundings after sound insulation. 
 
Others 
 
Ecology protection measures and expected effects: 
Seasonal fishing of anchovies may prevent from the decline the of the anchovies resource. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  242
 
 81
 
 
 
 
C o nclu s ion  a nd sug g e s t i on   
 
Conclusion:  
The completion of this project will benefit to the development of aquatic products cultivation 
of this county, and pave the way for the fish folk to change their work, in the meantime, this 
project may protect ocean wildness fishery resource and ecology environment, move forward 
the sustainable development of the ocean fishery. 
S
uggestion:
 To wide spread clean production, enlarge greenbelt, beautify surrounding, and 
improve the environment protection conscience of the work staff. To protect the environment 
with heart and duty while develop economy. 
Seasonal fishing of anchovies may prevent from the decline the of the anchovies resource. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Page  243
 
 82
Approve suggestion:
 
As to the suggestion on the project of pellet food processing of Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic 
Products Co., Ltd. put forwarded by Xiangshan Enviroment Protection Inspection Station, we 
mainly agree in principle. This is a new project, and the completion of which will be benefit to 
the development of the aquatic raising line of our county, and move forward to the sustainable 
development of ocean fishery. 
      The construction unit must strictly abide by relevant system; carry out the environment 
protection measures required in the suggestion. In the process of construction, the following 
must be strictly carried out: 
1. To wide spread clean workcraft in order to reduce the consumption of water 
amount from the beginning. To recycle at most time so that reduces the drainage 
amount. 
2. Rainwater and waste water should be separately drained. Production and living 
waste water are supposed to reach standard II of Waste Water Letting out 
Standard GB8978-1996 after disposal.  
3. Solid trash must be placed in a fixed location, and carried to the fish powder 
factory periodically. Living rubbish should be send to City Environment and 
Sanitary Cleaning System. 
4. Foul smell from the feed stuff should be let out via pipe in high air after 
collection and spray by acid and alkali. 
5. The construction unit should apply to the environment protection department for 
trial production in time after the completion of the project. The project can only 
be put in run after acceptance. 
The A/M items must be carried out seriously. 
We hereby agree the project of Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Products Co., Ltd., who put 
forward to process pellet food with an annual output of 5000tons. 
 
 
 
Xiangshan County Environment Protection Bureau 
Aug. 13, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  244
Approval and Registry Form of Environment Protection on Construction Project  
Registry Form unit
\1f                                          
Registry Form person
\1f
                                                 
Approval undertaker\1f
     
Project 
description 
About Seafood Finish Machining use WB 
International Loan Project
 
Construction site
 
industrial demonstration area of Xiangshan
 
construction 
scale 
The annual production volume of this project is 
1930T. 
Construction style
 
\01‘
 ¥
New 
\01‘
Rebuild &continuation       
\01‘
Techno-build 
classification 
1320 
Environment Protection 
supervised style 
\01‘
Compiling book  
\01‘
 ¥
 Compiling form   
\01‘
Register 
form 
Total 
investment 
(10000YUAN) 
33994500 RMB  
environmental 
protection 
invest
(10000YUAN) 
80 
Environmental 
protection 
inve
st 
rate
\1f%\1f 
2 
Project- 
establishing 
Dept. 
Xiangshan County  Development Planning 
Bureau 
Approved file No. 
No.54[2003] 
Project 
established 
time 
2003.3.28 
 Construction Project 
Report 
Warrant 
Dept. 
Xiangshan County Environment Protection 
Bureau 
Approved file No. 
 
Approved 
time 
 
Name 
XIANGSHAN HUAYI 
SEAFOOD CO., LTD. 
Ningbo P.R. China 
Tel 
1396836338
8 
Evalu
ation  
unit
 
Name 
Xiangshan Environmental 
Supervising and Protecting 
Station 
Tel 
65725923 
Address 
Xiangshan County Shipu 
Aquatic Products Processing 
Zone 
Post 
315700 
Address 
No.191 Xinhua Road 
Xiangshan 
Post 
315700 
C
onstruction- 
    unit
 
Legal 
representative 
Yu fuchun 
Person in 
 charge 
Yu 
yongchu
n 
 
Certificate 
No. 
C20150001 
Evaluation 
expense
 
 
Environm
ent
 quality  
class 
Atmosphere
\1f
Class \1f
GB3095-1996     
Surface water
\1f         Groundwater\1f        Noise:
 Type\1f
GB3093-1993       
Sea water
 \1f
Type III
  GB9097-1997   
Soil\1f          Others\1f 
Project site 
condition 
environment 
condition
 
Environm
ent
 
sensitivity 
character 
\01‘
   Drinking water source protection district   
\01‘
   Natural protection district         
\01‘
  Famous scenery district              
\01‘
   Plantation and park     
\01‘
   Essential cropland protection district      
\01‘
    Ecology protection district        
\01‘
  Water and soil leave away protection area     
\01‘
 Ecology sensitive and fragile area  
\01‘
   Population dense area                 
\01‘
    Key cultural relic protection area    
\01‘
 ¥
 Lake          
\01‘
Reservoir 
Page  245
 
 
84
Built + under built 
This project  
Total project 
Contaminatio
n 
drainage 
density 
In fact 
drainag
e 
density 
allowe
d 
 
general 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
In fact 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
allowed 
 
drainage 
density 
predicted
 
 
drainag
e 
density 
allowe
d 
 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
reducing 
capacity  
 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
predicte
d 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
 
reducin
g 
capacit
y of  
old and 
new 
section 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
predicte
d
 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
allowe
d 
 
 
drainag
e  
in-
creasi-
ng 
capacit
y 
 
decrease 
amount in 
district balance 
replacement 
waste 
wa
t
e
r
 
------- 
-------  
 
------- 
------- 
4\1f864  4\1f864  
 
 
 
 
 
Oxyen 
amount 
 required * 
  
    551 
100 
26\1f79
6 
21\1f.932 4\1f864 
  
 
 
 
 
Ammonia and 
 ni t r og e n * 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Suspend 
substance 
    274 
70 
13\1f32
6 
9\1f921 3\1f405 
  
 
 
 
 
Waster gas 
------- 
-------- 
 
  ----- 
----- 
720  720 
  
 
 
 
 
Sulfur dioxide 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Smoke and 
dust 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial 
powder dust  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Nitrogen and 
oxide 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial 
solid  
trash 
------- -------- 
 
 
--------  -------- 249\1f2 
224 
25\1f2 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 pollutant let out standard and control 
o
ther pollutant in 
relation with this 
project
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Page  246
 
 
85
Unit\1fy waste gas capacity\1fx104 marked meter3/year\1fwastewater\1fton/year\1fmercury\1fcadmium\1flead, arsenic\1fchromium\1fchloride kg/year\1fo
ther 
units are all tons\1fwaste gas density\1fmilligram/liter\1fWaste gas density milligram/lm 
Notes\1fThis list is written by the evaluation unit and attached on the last page of the report. The last blank is the characteri
stic pollutant. 
Among this\1f\1f5\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f-\1f4\1f\1f\1f6\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f+\1f1\1f-\1f4\1f 
 
 
. 
 
 
Page  247
Project Environment Influence Report 
 
 
 
Project name : Utilize Loan from World Bank to Develop Seafood Further Processing  
Construct company ( sealed ) : Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTD 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enact Date : July 27, 2003 
 
Enacted by National Environmental Protection Bureau  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W.  
 
 
X.         
Y.    Responsibility Sheet  
 
 
Evaluated by :  Xiangshan Environmental Protection inspection office  
Evaluation company superinrtendent : Shi Yaqing 
Project superinrtendent: Shi Yaqing  
 
 
 
Evaluation Personnel Situation 
Name  
Profession 
Title  
Work No. 
Responsibility 
Signature  
Ni 
Environmen
Engineer  
Environmen
Censor  
 
Page  248
 
 87
Jianzhong  
t supervise 
t Evaluation 
No. 
C20150002 
Shi Yaqing  
Environmen
t supervise  
Engineer  
Environmen
t Evaluation 
No. 
C20150001 
Report  
compile  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Base information:  
Project Name 
Utilize loan from World Bank to develop seafood further processing  
Construction Company 
Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTD 
Proprietor 
Xie Dingfei  
Contact person 
Qian Shunxin 
Address: 
No.1 Haining Road Shipu Xiangshan  
Telephone: 
1350 6687 665 
Fax 
0574-
65975000 
Post 
code 
315731 
Construction Place  
No.7 land of Shipu seafood processing industrial park Xiangshan    
Project approval 
Authority  
Xiangshan Development 
Plan Bureau 
Approval No. 
Xiangshan Plan 
Investment 
Approval 
No.(2003) 52 
Construciton Natural  
New building  
Trade Type & Code 
1320 
Occupied Area 
39960(M
2
) 
Green Area  
11988 (M
2
) 
Total investment  
RMB 
44.9418
million 
Including : 
Environment 
Investment  
RMB1.94mi
llion 
Prop
ortio
n  
2.6% 
Page  249
 
 88
Evaluation Expense  
 
Expected operation 
Date  
May,2006 
Project Scale and Content  
Project Background  
Xiangshan county is rich of marine resource county, three directions surrounded by sea, with total 
sea area 5335 square kilometers, waterfront area 30,000MU, and 4.96million MU shallow sea 
within 20meters depth levels ( including 450000Mu within Bay ) . Xiangshan has 800 kilometers 
coastal line and 608 islands. Xiangshan bay and Sanmen bay is located in north and south of 
Xiangshan respectively and both of them are narrow and semi-closed bay. East seashore of 
Xiangshan has several open bays provide good condition to farming seafood. 
Shipu Harbor is one of national key harbors, located within East China Sea fishery ground, with 
wide and open sea, flat and continual waterfront. So abundant marine resource of Shipu are 
mainly coming from oversea catching, deep-water farming, and waterfront farming. Shipu is also 
main harbor where fishing ships landed, so it is fresh seafood transaction center of East China. 
Recent years, due to recession of fishery resource, farming developed quickly and had becoming 
key industry coastal farmers adopted. With introducing more farming products, now we already 
have 35 farming species. But most farming products sell as fresh , live products which restricted 
further development of industry and lack of further processing plant. To speed up development of 
farming industry, we must give priority to further processing industry; enhance its additional 
value; source more raw material, maintain price for raw material and guide more fishermen to 
invest into prospected farming industry; ensure more reliable income for those fishermen who 
transfer from fishing into farming industry. So it is essential and vital to establish high standard 
high level seafood further processing company. 
Development of this project will play an important role in improving the whole level of china 
seafood processing, speeding up moderanization of china marine industry, stimulating the 
development of seafood farming industry and other relevant industry, creating more profession 
opportunities especially for women and those transferred fishermen, protectingwild fishing 
resource and environment, accelerating continual growth of marine industry..  
Project content
:  
1.  civil construction: total occupied area 65000 square meters, construction area 14900 square 
meters, including processing workshop 5000 square meters, cold storage room 2000 square 
meters, office building 3000 square meters, dorm and dinning room 2000 square meters, 
boiler room 300 square meters, machine room and power room 800 square meters, guard, 
garage ,warehouse 1000 square meters, sewage treatment center 800 square meters. 
2.  production capacity: annual processing seafood products 1396 tons, including export 1150 
tons( frozen dry seafood series 800 tons , IQF series production 350 tons )  and production for 
domestic market including frozen dry series production 100 tons and IQF series production 
146 tons )  
Main product equipment  
Freeze machine ( cold storage, IQF machine , Flat freeze machine ) , cooking facility , processing 
system and product line , vacuum dry machine, vacuum packing machine, automatic packing 
machine, disinfect facility, ozone disinfect machine, shell-on mussel cleaning machine, mussel 
meat cleaning machine, automatic mixed machine,  roast machine,     sewage treatment system 
etc.  
Energy consuming situation  
Annual power consuming expect to reach 2500000 KV, water consumption 103,000 cubic 
meters, oil consumption 72000 tons. 
Page  250
 
 89
Raw material consumption situation  
Oyster 2500 tons, scallops 110 tons, frozen shrimp meat 800 tons, frozen shrimp 400 tons , 
frozen clam 400 tons, frozen mussel 2500 tons, frozen clam 350 tons, frozen laver 500 tons, 
frozen bi-valves 800 tons  
Original pollution and environment problem related to this project  
Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTD established in 1996, located in China Aquatic City( 
No.1 Haining Road Shipu ), mainly handle seafood processing and  trading business. At present, 
company has fixed assets RMB 21.3million, with occupied area 15180 square meters and 
construction area 8200 square meters. Company had established 2 plant with total 11 workshop, 
includ: 5 workshops for surimi plant, 2 product lines, with 6 flat freeze machine, 1 set of IQF 
machine; 6 workshops for frozen spanish mackerel fillets plant, 2 sets of IQF machine, form 2 
product lines. In addition, we can fast freeze product 60 tons each time, and cold storage hold 
2000tons product each time. Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTD total process 5500 tons 
seafood products in2002, including surimi 3900 tons, frozen spanish mackerel fillets 1200 tons, 
small frozen products 400 tons , and generate RMB70million value, tax RMB9.5million, and 
USD7.5million foreign exchange. Annual power consumption expected to reach 23000 degree, 
water consumption 160000 cubic meters, water drainage 128000 cubic meters. Waster water will 
be drained into sewage treatment system, through grille, condensation, sediment procedure to 
pull out.  
Seafood further processing project Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTD plan to utilize loan  
from World Bank to construct is located in Shipu seafood industrial park second stage, 
surrounded by seafood processing plant nearby, convenient in transportation and well drainage.      
Page  251
 
 90
Natural and social condition to develop project 
Natural condition brief introduction ( Topography, geology, climate, weather, hydrology, 
Vegetation,  diversified animals etc) :  
1.  Location: Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co., LTD is at Shipu seafood processing industrial 
park ( detail please refer to attachment). At East sea, Shipu is famous fishing harbor of china, 
north on Dongchen, Dingtang and Xiaotang town, West near sanmen bay, south to Hepu, 
Gaotang town, East to Damu ocean and Maotou Ocean.  
2.  Geology: Shipu is belong to seashore Hill belt, low hill and islands account for 70% of total 
county area. The old city developed from a narrow valley near seashore, so house is built base 
on slope and street follow as ladder. Above sea level of town is at 20-28meters,while above 
sea level of coastal area is at 3-4 meters. Dajin mountain in West of Shipu is the highest place 
with 394 meters above sea level.  
Base rock of bank of Shipu harbor is formed by millstone of last Jurassic period, and main 
ingredient is gray, dark gray lava and tuff. Most geology construct are rupture, and lay at 
North-east, north-west and also south-west direction . The outbeach area of Shipu is plain 
accumulated by sea, rock immerse at tens meters depth. At no. 2 dock, these rock are 
generally 4-7 meters deep.Shipu have no record of earthquake above 5 grade. 
3.  Climate: Shipu is located at Monsoon of Subtropical zone, so climate character is warm and       
humid, clear change of four seasons, plentiful rainfall. Winter is cold and fine due to control by 
cold air, Spring is changeable between cloudy and fine due to weaken of cold air. At the 
beginning of summer its rainy continuous due to strengthen of subtropical high pressure, while at 
the middle of summer its fine and hot, less of rain, at the same time typhoon will bring rainstorm 
and flood; spring is south-east wind, while winter north-east wind. Disaster weather including 
frost, low temperature, storm, drought, typhoon, rainfall and cold wave etc, especially typhoon, 
storm , drought, low temperature. 
4. Weather: average temperature of many years: 16.2\1f;average temperature of January : 5.4\1f; 
average temperature of July: 27\1f; lowest temperature in record : minus 7.5\1f(Jan.16,1961 ) ; 
highest temperature in record 38.8\1f( August 20,1971 ). 
Average rainfall; 1392mm; rainy days: 23d; daily maximum rainfall in record: 281.6mm; the 
longest continuous rainy days: 23d; annual maximum rainfall in record: 1756.2mm(in 1976); 
annual minimum rainfall in record: 770.6(in 1967). 
Average humidity: 80%; annual sunshine time: 2025.8hr; no frost day of year: 296.7d. 
Year leading wind direction: winter north wind, summer South-west wind. Annual average 
wind speed: 5.5m/s; moment fastest speed in record: 58m/s. 
Year highest ocean temperature of Shipu is 30\1f,while lowest ocean temperature 8\1f. 
5. hydrology and tide  
 The body to hold pollution water of this project is Shipu harbor. Shipu harbor connect to land at 
north-west, East to Shanbantouzui, Dongmen island, duimian hill, Nantian island and Gaotang 
island from North-east to South-west to form a natural barrier line; west to Sanmen bay.  
Shipu harbor from north to south , turn to south-west, form a curved moon , with total 18km long 
center line , at 0.4-3km width and 4-33m depth , total ocean square meters 27km
2 . 
Shipu harbor current trend is traditional half a day tide. Average high tide is 2.14m, average low 
tide negative 1.4m, average tide difference 3.54m.  Rising tide begin from south-east entrance, on 
the contract while ebb tide. Rising tide close to W direction,while ebb tide close to E direction, 
current in back and forth , baisically turn in clock direction.  The fastest current happen at 5hours 
after high tide. The current is slow when rising tide, the surface speed is 0.55m/s while the lower 
at 0.37m/s ; The rising tide period of surface will be 7hours and 7 minutes, while the rising tide 
period of the lower 6hours and 24 minutes. The current of ebb tide is fast, the surface speed is 
0.75m/s, whle the lower at 0.96m/s ; the rising tide period of surface will be 6hours 15minutes 
and the lower 6hours 5minutes..  
Wave of shipu harbor is mixed wave mainly formed by well up wave. Wave height generally less 
then 8 meters. When typhoon is coming, the heightest wave of shipu can reach 1.5m.  
 
Page  252
 
 91
Shipu minus current is NE direction, surface and the lower are consistent at same direction, with 
0.1-0.2m/s speed. 
Most wave of Shipu is mixed wave. The height of wave generally is less than 0.8 meters. While it 
reach 1.5m when typhoon pass Shipu   
Social Environment brief introduction ( social economy structure , education, culture, and culture 
relic protection etc.  
Xiangshan is between Xiangshan bay and Sanmen bay in East of Zhejiang, with east longitude 
from 131° 34\1f– 122° 20\1f, north latitude 28° 45\1f- 29° 41\1f. Xiangshan is formed by Xiangshan 
peninsula and 608 islands, with total land area 1175square kilometers, ocean area 5000 square 
kilometers, and 528000 population. County government is at Dancheng town. Xiangshan is key 
county of Zhejiang, rich of hairtail , yellow croaker, pomfret, cuttlefish and ocean farmin shrimp, 
bi-valves, oyster, laver , and kelp etc. Xiangshan is convenient in ocean transportation, with Shipu 
and Hepu main port.  
Shipu town is 36 km far away from Dancheng town and total 83.6 square kilometers area, with 70 
administrative village and 20 residential district.  
In 2000, shipu has total 70429 population including 26772 residents. Shipu is main port of china 
and Zhejiang to trade and receipt Taiwannese. Shipu is rich of marine resource, such as hairtail , 
eel ,flounder ,pomfret, yellow croaker, grouper and swimming crab ,prawn etc. According to data 
provided by Shipu government, in 2000 among total output RMB3.3billion, including industrial 
value RMB 2.1billion and agriculture marine value RMB 1.2billion. Main industry of shipu is 
seafood processing, ship building and maintain industry. Shipu is convenient in transportation: 
cargo transport north to Dalian,south to Hainan and canton , west to Shashi; passenger liner direct 
to Shanghai, jiaojiang, shengjiamen etc;27 square kilometers calm ocean area, can hold 10000 ship 
and 5000 tons vessels can pass her . Seafood processing industry is outstanding among other 
industry of shipu. At presetn shipu has cold storage more than 200 with cold storage capacity 
30000 tons, daily fast freezer capacity 2000 tons.  
Education of shipu develop at the same rate of economy, at present, shipu has 1 marine profession 
school, 1 adult profession school, 4 middle school and 31 primary school, compulsory education 
rate at 99%. 
Overall plan of Shipu town  
Base on origial district of shipu , develop to south-west and north-east . South-west is to develop 
seafood processing and machine processing industrial park. North–east is to develop residential 
area, commercial and tourism.  
Environment quality situation 
Project construction area environment quality situation and main problem ( air condition, surface 
water, ground water, noise and ecological environment )  
1.  Ocean water environment: In 2001, ningbo environment inspection center gave regular inspect 
to shipu harbor according to GB3097-1997 Ocean Water Quality Standard and found that only 
inorganic nitrogen beyond the standard, while other three index were in line with the 
requirement of Zhejiang coastal environment area adjust plan. 
2.  Air condition: Index from xiangshan environment inspection center indicated that air condition 
of shipu is favorable, up to grade 2 standard of GB3095-1996 AIR CONDITION STANDARD.
3.  Noise: according to data provided by xiangshan environment inspection center , noise of shipu 
accord with third grade of GB3095-1996 city area noise standard    
Key Environment Protection Target ( list and protection grade )  
1.  Air condition proteciton grade is 2 grade of GB3095-1996 Environment Air Condition Quality 
Standard 
2. Accordin
g
 to Zh
j
ian
g
 Coastal Environment Area Ad
j
ust Plan, shi
p
u Ocean is four functional 
Page  253
 
 92
area and water quality is third grade of GB3097-1997 Ocean Water Standard  
3. Environment noise standard is third grade of GB3093-1993 city area noise standard. 
 
1. Environment air condition: second grade of  GB3095-1996 Environment 
air quality standard  
                                                    Unit: mg/m3 
SO
2
 NO
2
 TSP 
Year 
average 
Day 
averag
e 
1 hour 
averag
e 
Year 
averag
e 
Day 
average 
1 hour 
averag
e 
Yea
r 
aver
age 
Day 
averag
e 
0.06 
0.15 0.50 0.05 0.10 
0.15 0.2 
0.3 
 
 
2. Ocean water environment: According to Zhejiang Coastal Environment 
Area Adjust Plan, Shipu Ocean is four functional area, carrying out Four 
standard of GB9097-1997 Ocean Water Standard. 
                                                     Unit: mg/l. 
Project  
PH 
DO 
COM
WN
 BOD
5
 Inorganic 
netrogen 
Alertin
g 
phosph
ate 
Standard 
value 
6.8-8.8 >3 
 ”
5m 
 ”
5 
 ”
0.5 
 ”
0.045 
 
 
 
3. Environment Noise: Plant carry out third grade of GB3093-1993 city area 
Environment Noise standard. 
                                                   Leg\1fdB(A)\1f 
Type day 
night 
Envi
rom
ent 
Qual
ity 
stan
dard
 
III 65 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  254
 
 93
 
 
 
. polluted air :  carry out second grade II period standard of GB132712001 Boiler air 
pollution exhaust standard . Below sheet is part of standard 
                                                      Unit:  mg /m
3
 
    project 
standard value 
Smoke & dust 
drainage 
density 
Smoke black 
density(black 
density, grade) 
SO
2 
drainage 
density (mg/m
3
) 
Oil boiler 
100 
1 
500 
Dinning room snot Execute GWPB5-2000 food industry snot exhaust standard ( trial )  
Scale  
small 
middle 
Large 
Basic ovens  
A
1,<3 
A
3,<6 
A
 6 
Correspond oven power  
1.67,<5.00 
A
 5.00, <10 
A
 10 
Correspond oven exhaust 
area 
A
1.1, <3.3 
A
3.3,<6.6 
A
 6.6 
Permit exhaust density ( 
highest)  
2.0 
Purify remove rate 
60 
75 
85 
 
2. polluted water: carry out III standard of GB8978-1996 Polluted water drainage 
standard, owing to polluted water will be  handled by Management committee of 
Industrial park together, so each company are permitted to use internal standard.  
                                                         Unit : mg/l 
Project PH 
COD
CR
 BOD
5
 SS 
NH
3
-N Animal 
& 
plant oil 
Standard value 
6-9 
2000 
1200 
400 
150 
100 
Polluted water treated plant of Industrial park carry out II standard of Sheet 4 of  
GB8978-1996 polluted water drainage standard , Below is part of standard 
                                                        unit : mg/l 
Project PH 
COD
CR
 BOD
5
 SS 
NH
3
-N Animal 
& 
plant oil 
Standard value 
6-9 
150 
30 
150 
25 
20 
. Noise : noise within plant carry out III standard of GB12348-90 industrial enterprise 
noise within plant standard.   
                                                      Leq [ dB(A) ] 
Type Day 
night 
III 65 
55 
Noise of construction place  carry out GB12523-90 Construction place noise limitation 
                                                       Leq [ dB(A) ] 
noise limitation 
Construction 
period  
Key noise resources 
Day  
Night 
Earth & stone  
Bull-dozer, excavator, loader 
75 
55 
Pile drive  
Various pile driver  
85 
Prohibit to 
construct 
Construct  
Kneading machine, electric saw etc 
70 
55 
Pollutio
n 
drainag
e 
standar
d 
decoration 
Crane, elevator etc 
65 
55 
Volume  
Page  255
 
 94
control 
index  
 
Processing Procedure Brief  Introduction( chart )  
1. Oyster Fillets 
fresh oyster (eliminate sands ) ---->ocean water cleaning , remove impurity--
\01
 
                            
                            polluted water, impurity 
 
x ray detect ----->immerse in ice block---->classification  --->fast freezer- 
                          starch, corn   
 
--->take off from model---->mixed with flour ---->IQF---->x ray detect---->package- 
 
-->metal detect --->packing in carton---->cold storage 
Choose raw material from farming area without being polluted, we will use clean water from sea to 
washing to remove impurity, classify as grade after 3-5 minutes immersed in ice water. Then store it 
into minus 30 degree freeze equipment till the temperature coming down to minus 18 degree. Then 
take off from model, flavored, second classification, frozen,  inspect, packing in carton, cold storage.  
3. flavor 
scallops 
                                     oil boiler---->polluted air 
                                              vapor 
fresh scallops-->sea water cleaning --> remove shuck, separate meat  ---.> 
 
               polluted water 
-------------> remove impurity, out of model --->washing---- ->flavor, packing—> 
           
oil boiler-->polluted air  impurity        polluted water  
        vapor 
--->cooking---->cool, frozen---->metal detect--->packing in cartons--->cold storage 
choose raw material from farming area, after washing by clean water or 2-3% salted water, put flavor 
and scallops in proportion into vacuum bags and sealed bags. Then put it into 100 degree water 
cooking for 30 minutes, after cooling, put it into minus 30 degree freeze equipment till the 
temperature coming down to minus 18 degree, inspecting, packing into cartons, store in cold storage.  
3.Frozen dry shelled shrimp  
fresh shrimp---->sea water cleaning---->fast freezer---->dehydrate---->classification,  
Page  256
 
 95
 
              polluted water                           unqualified products  
inspection--->package---->metal detect ---->cold in storage 
choose fresh shrimp as raw material,  after washing by clean sea water, fast freeze to minus 18 degree, 
drying, classification, vacuum package, inspect eligible, packing into cartons and store in cold 
storage. 
 
4.Frozen dry shrimp  
fresh shrimp-->cleaning-->fast freezer-->dehydrate-->classification inspection   
 
               polluted water              unqualified products 
--->package---->metal detect ---->cold in storage 
choose shelled shrimp as raw material, after washing by clean sea water, fast freeze to minus 18 
degree, drying, classification, vacuum package, inspect eligible, packing into cartons and store in cold 
storage. 
5.frozen dry mussel 
                                vapor---->polluted air  
                                     
fresh mussel---->sea water cleaning---->removeshuck, separate meat---->fast freezer- 
 
            polluted water 
--->dehydrate---->classification, inspection--->metal detect ---->cold storage 
                         unqualified products  
choose raw material from farming area without being polluted, cleaning by sea water, remove 
impurity and shuck, get meat, classified as the specification, put into minus 30 degree freeze 
equipment till the temperature coming down to minus 18 degree, then put it into drying room to dry, 
classification and inspection, vacuum package, check up, packing into cartons, store in cold storage. 
6.frozen dry clam 
                               vapor---->polluted air  
                                     
fresh clam---->sea water cleaning---->remove shuck, separate meat---->fast freezer 
                    polluted water 
 
>dehydrate--->classification, inspection--->metal detect ---->cold storage 
                unqualified product 
choose raw material from farming area without being polluted, cleaning by sea water, remove 
impurity and shuck, get meat, classified as the specification, put into minus 30 degree freeze 
Page  257
 
 96
equipment till the temperature coming down to minus 18 degree, then put it into drying room to dry, 
classification and inspection, vacuum package, check up, packing into cartons, store in cold storage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.frozen dry blood clam 
                   polluted water       vapor---->junk 
                                          
fresh blood clam--->sea water cleaning--->remove shuck, separate meat---> 
 
---> fast freezer--->dehydrate--->classification, inspection--->metal detect – 
                                        unqualified products 
--->cold storage 
choose raw material from farming area without being polluted, cleaning by sea water, remove 
impurity and shuck, get meat, classified as the specification, put into minus 30 degree freeze 
equipment till the temperature coming down to minus 18 degree, then put it into drying room to dry, 
classification and inspection, vacuum package, check up, packing into cartons, store in cold storage. 
8.frozen dry laver 
fresh laver-->sea water cleaning->fast freezer->dehydrate-->classification ,inspection  
                   polluted water                      unqualified products  
 
---->package---->metal detect ---->cold in storage 
choose raw material from farming area without being polluted , after washing by clean sea water, fast 
freeze to minus 18 degree, drying, classification, vacuum package, inspect eligible, packing into 
cartons and store in cold storage. 
9.frozen dry bi-valves 
                                vapor---->polluted air  
                                        
fresh blood clam---->sea water cleaning, eliminate sands--->remove shuck, get meat- 
                         polluted water 
                                          unqualified products  
Page  258
 
 97
---->fast freezer --->dehydrate----->classification, inspection---->package----->metal detect ----> 
cold storage 
choose raw material from farming area without being polluted, cleaning by sea water, remove 
impurity and shuck, get meat, classified as the specification, put into minus 30 degree freeze 
equipment till the temperature coming down to minus 18 degree, then put it into drying room to dry, 
classification and inspection, vacuum package, check up, packing into cartons, store in cold storage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main polluted procedure 
1. Polluted water  
1) Processing polluted water is coming from seafood cleaning procedure. Base on annual products of 
1396 tons, annual polluted water produce from this procedure will reach 69800 cubic meters, 
including CODcr: 500 mg/l, ss:300mg/l. 
2)Floor cleaning water : floor cleaning water 9000 cubic meters, including CODcr:300mg/l, SS: 200 
mg/l. 
3) Daily used water: calculated base on 487 employee, production date : 180 days, polluted water : 0.1 
cubic meters/person each day, total 8760cubic meters, including CODcr:400mg/l, SS:150 mg/l. 
2. Polluted air:  
mainly from oil boiler, calculated at annual oil consumption 72 tons, annual polluted air exhaust 
1014000 cubic meters, SO2: 432 kgs. 
3. Solid Pollution  
1) processing solid pollution : mainly coming from shell and visceral of shellfish. Shell annual 
production: 2000 tons, while visceral of shellfish annual production 15tons  
2) living garbage: calculated at 487 employee, production date : 180 days, solid pollution : 0.05 tons 
per person each day, total 43.8 tons 
4. Noise  
mainly caused by ammonia machine  
Project main pollution and exhaust situation 
  project 
type 
Exhaust 
source ( 
No.) 
Pollutio
n Name 
Density and volume 
before treatment  
Exhaust density 
and volume 
Air 
pollution  
Boiler  
Dust, 
SO
2
 
Pollutedair:1014000 
cubic 
meter, SO
2
:432kgs 
Polluted 
air:1014000 
cubicmeters,SO
2
:
432kgs 
Page  259
 
 98
 Snot 
from 
dinning 
room 
snot 
Polluted air: 4000m
3
/h 
Density:14-20mg/l 
Polluted air: 
4000m
3
/h 
Density:2.0mg/l 
Productio
n  
CODcr, 
SS 
Polluted water: 69800 
cubic 
meter,CODcr:500mg/l  
SS:300mg/l 
Floor 
cleaning 
water 
CODcr, 
SS 
Polluted water: 9000 
cubic 
meter,CODcr:300mg/l  
SS:200mg/l 
Water 
pollution 
Living  
CODcr, 
SS 
Polluted water: 69800 
cubic 
Meter,CODcr:500mg/l  
SS:300mg/l 
Polluted water: 
87560 cubic 
meter, 
CODcr:300mg/l,  
SS:200 MG/l 
Separate 
shell meat 
Visceral 
15tons per year 
15tons per year 
Separate 
shell meat 
Shell 
2000 tons per year 
2000 tons per 
year 
Solid 
pollution 
Living 
garbage  
----- 
43.8 tons per year  
43.8 tons per year  
Noise  
 
Other  
 
Main Influence:  
Main influence: after implement of this project, original farm land , pool will turn 
into industrial park, and will definitely change land use type. 
 
Construction period Environment influence brief analysis:  
Construction period are including project as earth and stone, pile driving, structure, wall build , 
decorating, transportation, pipeline arrange etc. Pollution caused at this period are noise caused by 
machine, and building garbage, water pollution and dust . 
1) air treatment  
surrounding of construction place shall build wall, and building shall be protected by safety net to 
avoid any breakage to effect surrounding environment.  Dig earth and Desert earth shall be explored 
and placed by planed. and construction garbage and desert earth shall be prompt take care and 
cleaned.  Water shall be regular watered to road vehicles often passed and construction material to 
avoid produce more dust. 
2) water treatment  
polluted water, mud water and floor water shall be collected and  drained to special ditch after 
sediment. 
Daily using polluted water shall be proper handled and temporary living facility shall be constructed, 
and polluted water from temporary  dining room  shall pass simple oil sediment pool , temporary 
toiler shall be drain to river after treatment . 
3) Noise treatment  
Adopt advanced machine and technology to enable noise within limitation. Work during night cause 
noise pollution shall be approved by Environment protection bureau if necessary.  
Environment influence analysis during operation period: 
Page  260
 
 99
1. Polluted air treatment and analysis on effect to environment  
2 sets of 2 tons oil boiler, with good seashore diffusion condition, with little influence to surrounding. 
2. water pollution treatment and analysis on effect to environment  
processing polluted water and floor cleaning water will through grille, sediment, solid treatment  then 
drain to industrial park polluted water treatment center.  
living polluted water will through manure pit  then drain to industrial park polluted water treatment 
center.  
Polluted water through treatment of industrial park and reach II standard of GB8978-1996 polluted 
water drainage standard then drain to Shipu harbor, with little influence to shipu harbor. 
3.Solid pollution treatment and analysis on effect to environment  
solid pollution of this project are visceral and shell of shellfish. Visceral can be processed as meal, 
and shell can be made into shell powder. 
living garbage can be cleaned by local sanitation bureau, and  put in shipu garbage cleaning system, 
through  harmless treatment ,  influent little  to environment. 
4. Noise control measurement and analysis on effect to environment  
Caused by ammonia machine, through sound insulation treatment, noise will not intervene with 
resident outside plant . 
5. Environment risk analysis 
Liquid ammonia used during processing will run certain risk, especially during transportation , storage 
and processing procedure. 
risk from transportation including environment pollution caused by leak of  raw 
material , traffic accident.
 
Project protection measurement & expected achievement
 
      project 
type 
Exhaust source 
Pollutio
n Name 
Protection 
Treatment  
Expect 
Achievement 
Boiler  
SO
2
,dus
t 
Choose qualified 
oil boiler  
Exhaust after 
treatment  
Air pollution  
Dinning room 
snot 
Purify machine  
Exhaust after 
treatment  
Processing 
procedure 
CODcr 
,SS 
Floor cleaning 
CODcr 
SS 
Water 
pollution 
Living  
CODcr 
,SS 
I grade Solid 
treatment  
Exhaust as per 
internal 
standard 
Separate shell 
meat 
Visceral
Comprehensive 
use  
Resource  
Separate shell 
meat 
Shell Comprehensive 
use  
Resource  
Solid pollution 
Living garbage  
----- 
 
Harmless 
Noise  
Ammonia machine and other machines from workshop. 
Other  
 
Page  261
 
 100
Environment protection measurement & expect achievement  
Main influence: after implement of project, original farm land , pool will turn into 
industrial park, and will definitely change land use type and influent environment 
. 
Conclusion and suggestion  
1. This project is newly- build project, with total investment RMB44.9418 million . After implement 
of this project, annual production expect to reach 1396 tons including export frozen dry products 800 
tons , IQF products 350 tons, domestic consumption frozen dry products 100 tons  and IQF products 
146tons.  farming seafood is material for all above mentioned products. we will conquer the 
shortcoming of traditional  processing industry material  from ocean catching fish  and play an 
important role in protection of wild marine resource and development of waterfront farming industry, 
stimulate marine industry continuous development .  
2 pollution source of this project are polluted air from oil boiler, solid pollution from shellfish, 
polluted water from processing and living . As indicated by this report, after reach of exhaust 
standard, pollution will be little to environment. 
3. Conclusion : this project will be a impulse , integration and improvement to shipu seafood 
processing industry . Project is feasible from environment protection point in case all pollution source 
reach exhaust standard. 
4. suggestion: 1)Ningbo feiri marine Industrial Co.,LTD eliminate old processing technology step by 
step to achieve protect marine resource   2)carry our clean processing , eliminate pollution through 
control from beginning . 3) processing polluted water shall be recycled to comprehensive utilize 4 ) 
solid pollution shall be recycled to comprehensive utilize 5)  steam  supply by industrial park 6) 
strengthen plant green belt construction , to reduce noise and foul smell. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  262
 
 101
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approval comments: 
Basically we agree environment comments from Xiangshan Environment Protection and 
inspectioncenter on utilize Loan from World bank to further develop seafood prcessing project 
of Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTd.This project is newly build project.Establishment of 
this projectwill improve seafood processing level of Xiangshan county, stimulate development of 
local economy. 
 Construction company of this project must strictly carry out "3 same time " principle, apply all 
required environment protection measurement.During implement of this project, 
Company must ensure that : 
1. carry out cleaning produce principle, control from source to reduce and eliminate pollution       
 2. Rain must be drained separately from polluted water. After sediment, rain directly drain 
into river nearby. produce polluted water and employee living water drain to industrial park 
polluted water treatment center after I grade solid treatment within company, then drain to 
Shipu harbor when water reach II grade of GB8978-1996 Polluted Water Drainage Standard 
3.Visceral of solid pollution can be used as material for meal( fodder), while shell of solid 
pollution can be turned into shell powder and be further utilized. Living garbage will be cleaned 
by Sanitation Bureau.  
4.strengthen green belt construction is to protect environment , to reduce noise and unpleasant 
smell's influence to environment. 
5.when project is implement, Company must received qualification from Environment 
protection bureau then begin to operation. 
 above-mentioned measurement shall be sincerely carried out by construction company. 
 Ningbo Feiri Marine Industrial Co.,LTD processing 1396 tons seafood project had been agreed. 
 
 
Xiangshan environment protection bureau 
2003/8/13         
 
 
 
 
Page  263
 
 102
 
 
 
  
  
Registry Form of Construction Project 
Environmental Influence to Environment 
 
 
 
Project Description: Aquatic product processing
 
Construction Unit: Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Co., Ltd. 
 
Compiling Date:
 
Aug.29
th
, 2003 
Supervised by State General Environment Protection Bureau 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  264
 
 103
Responsibility List 
 
Evaluation unit:  Xiangshan Environment Supervision and testing Station 
 
Person in charge of Evaluation unit: Shi Yaqin  
 
Person in charge of the project: Shi Yaqin (environment evaluation postNo.13844) 
 
With regard to the 
assessor
assessor
assessor
assessor
 
Name specialty 
the title of 
a technical 
post 
Post No. 
Duty 
signatur
e
Ni 
Jianzhong 
Environmental 
Supervising
 
engineer 
Environment 
evaluation post
No.C20150002 
Auditing 
 
Wu Wu
 
Environmental 
Supervising
 
assistant 
engineer 
Environment 
evaluation post
No.C20150003 
Report 
compiling 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compiling Basis: 
Page  265
 
 104
 
 
1. Rules on Environment Protection and Administration of Construction Project [1998] No. 253 by 
the State Council of PRC. 
2. Technical Guidance for Evaluation of Environment Influence HJ/T2.1-2.3-93(HJ/T2.4-95) by 
State General Environment Protection Bureau. 
3. [1996] No.91 Approval on the Project of Functional Division of Ground Water Environment of 
Zhejiang Province by the People’s Government. 
4. No.67 [1997] Approval on the Project of Functional Division of Air Quality by Ningbo 
Municipal Government. 
5. Feasibility Report about utilization Loan from World Bank on develop New Project of Aquatic 
Food Processing by Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Co., Ltd. 
6.Approval on the Construction of New Project of Aquatic Food Processing by Ningbo Xianglong 
Aquatic Food Co., Ltd issued by Xiangshan Development and Planning Bureau No.50[2003] 
 
Page  266
 
 105
 
 
 
 
General Introduction to the Project 
Project 
description 
Aquatic product processing 
Construction unit 
Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Co., Ltd. 
Project legal 
representative 
Chen Zhenxiang 
Person in 
charge 
Chen Mingyue 
Address 
Xiangshan County Shipu Aquatic Products Processing Zone  
Telephone 
65725573 
Fax 
65723453 
Post 
315731 
Construction site 
Xiangshan County Shipu Aquatic Products Processing Zone 
Project- 
establishing 
Dept. 
Xiangshan  
Development and Planning 
Bureau 
Warrant file No. 
NO.50[2003] 
Construction style 
New
\01‘
 ¥
 
Rebuild&continuation 
\01‘
 
Technology innovation 
\01‘
 
Line sort and code 
1320 
Occupied area 
64.34 Mu 
Afforestation 
area
\1f
M
2
\1f
 
2000
 M
2
 
Total invest 
(10000YUAN) 
  3131 
Among which:  
environmental 
protection invest 
(10000YUAN) 
60 
T
he rat
e 
of
  
environmental 
protection invest
 
1.8% 
Evaluation 
expense 
 
Estimated Date of 
Production  
Oct.2005 
Page  267
 
 106
Brief Introduction to the Project 
Background to prose the project 
Xiangshan County is a big fishery county in Zhejiang Province. One wing of Xiangshan’s “one 
main, two wings” strategy is to develop marine industry. The significant step to develop marine 
industry is to give priority to cultivating aquatic food and let it be a new growth point o
f
 
economy. Cultivation will play an increasingly vital role in marine industry. With the implement 
of “increase output and value” agriculture policy, cultivation by sea water, as an advantaged 
industry and efficient agriculture, has developed rapidly: successfully introduced more than 50 
species, upgraded cultivating patterns, cultivating land reaches 195,000mu, and annual output 
exceeds 95,000tons. However, the offshore fishery resource is constantly decreasingly in the 
recent years. As the implement of the policy of cutting down the number of fishing ships, more 
and more fishermen turn to cultivating industry, which directly lead to the steady growth of the 
output. But traditional sales methods to sell fresh and live aquatic foods seriously restrained the 
development of cultivating scale. While in international market, price for further processed 
p
roducts is dozens of that of raw materials. The added value being so attractive, therefore, to 
establish a high standard seafood processing factory is a strong guarantee to the sustainable 
development of cultivating industry of Xiangshan. 
Project Description
\1f
 
1. Project Scale 
    Frozen cultivated fish about 980 tons, shrimps (without head) 620 tons 
2.Civil Engineering 
a) Project occupied area: 64.34Mu. 
b) Construction area: 10792.3M2. 
i. Processing factory: 9332.3M2. 
ii. Cold storage warehouse: 1640M2. 
  C) Afforestation area 2000 m
2 
    
d) Roadway area 3237.6 m
2
 
Pollution and main environmental problems 
 
 
Page  268
 
 107
 
 
Brief Introduction to Natural and Social Environment  
Natural Environment (topography, landform, geology, climate, weather, hydrology, vegetation and biological 
variability etc.) 
1. Geographic location: Zhejiang Aquatic City phase II project locates at Shipu Industrial Zone. (Detailed location refer to th
e 
appendix) Near highway, the project enjoys convenient transportation and excellent environment. Near the east sea, Shipu 
Town is one of the famous fishery ports in China. She connects Dongchen, Dingtang and Xiaotang to the north, Next to 
Sanmen Bay to the west. There are Hepu and Gaotang at the opposite side of the harbor in the south, Damuyang and 
Maotouyang in the east.  
2. Geology and landform: Shipu is a coastal hilly town, low hills and islands cover 70% of the town’s land area. The old town 
locates at a narrow valley near gulf. Houses are built along stream at the foot of hills, while streets and lanes wind like lad
der. 
The altitude in the town between 20-28 meters, the average altitude is only 3-4 meters along the harbor. To the west, 
Dakingshan has the highest altitude of 394 meters in the town. The basic rocks exposed on the two sides of the port are mainly 
gray and dark gray mountain rocks. Geological structures are mainly northeast, northwest and southwest tendency cracks. In 
front of the harbor, there are coastal ladder land and plain. The depth of the basic rocks varies from 10 to 20 meters. Around 
harbor II, the basic rocks are generally at 4-7 meters deep. So far, no earthquake above 5 scale happened in Shipu. 
3. Climate: The city locates at subtropical monsoon belt. The weather is warm and humid with distinct four seasons and rich 
rainfall. In winter, under the control of cold air mass, it is often sunny and cold; in spring, the cold air mass weakens, but 
the 
weather is changeable. In early Summer, it is always rainy due to the sub-high pressure. While in hot Summer, controlled by 
high pressure, it is sun-shining and hot with little rain. Typhoon is always the case, usually go together with torrential rain
 and 
flood. The wind usually tends to southeast in Spring and northeast in Winter. Disastrous weather includes frost, low 
temperature, heavy storm, ice, drought, typhoon, torrential rain and cold wave etc. Especially typhoon, torrential rain, drough
t 
and low temperature are very often.  
4. Weather 
Annual average temperature: 16.2 \1f   Annual average temperature in January: 5.4 \1f 
Annual average temperature in July : 5.4 \1f  Annual lowest temperature : -7.5 (Jan.16,1961) 
Highest temperature: 38.8 \1f(Aug.20,1971)   
\06fi
  Annual average rainfall:1392 mm   Annual average rainy day:23d 
The max daily rainfall : 281.6 mm  the longest successive rainy day: 23d 
The max annual rainfall: 1756.2mm(1976)  the min annual rainfall: 770.6 mm(1967) 
\06fi
  Annual relative humidity:80%   Annual average sunshine hours: 2025.8.lhr   
Annual non-frost day:296.7d 
\06fi
  Prevailing wind: north wind in winter and southeast wind in summer. 
       Annual average wind speed: 5.5m/s   Max sudden wind speed:58m/s 
\06fi
  average highest water temperature:30\1f Lowest water temperature:8\1f 
5.Hydrology and tides: 
\06fi
 Shipu port is the body to contain pollutants in this project. The port connects the continents in the northwest, and there 
are 5 islands around the harbor shaped a line as a natural barrier from northeast to southwest in the east, they are Shanban 
Touzui, Northeast Island, Duimianshan Island, Nantian Island and Gaotang Island. On the west, close to Sanmen Bay, 
composed of Venus shore and five water ways: Tongwamen, Dongmen, Xiawanmen, Linmen and Sanmen. The port 
extents from north to south, winds form west to south, lake a crescent moon, with the middle line of 18km, width of 0.4-
3mm, water area of 27km and water depth of 4-33m.  
\06fi
Tides of Shipu port are regular half-day tide. The average high tide is 2.14m, low tide is-1.4m, average tide margin is 
3.54m. The rising tide enter form the southeast to the east and ebb from the opposite direction to the east, generally in 
counter-clockwise. The max flow speed is about five hours after tide. The rising tide is of small speed, 0.55m/s for 7 
hours and 7 minutes, and 0.37m/s below for 6 hours and 5 minutes. The aftertide is from north to east at 0.1-0.2m/s. 
Waves in Shipu port are mixed waves. Tide height is usually no more than 0.8m. during typhoon, the highest wave is 
about 1.5m. 
 
Page  269
 
 108
Brief Introduction to the social environment (including social economic construction, 
education, culture and culture relic protection etc.) 
\06fi
Xiangshan County locates between Xiangshan Port and Sanmen Port, at north latitude 
28°15’18”-29°39’42”, east longitude 121°34’03”-122°17’30”. The territory comprises east 
Xiangshan peninsula and other 608 small islands, the total land area is 1175Km2, while the 
sea area is 5000Km2. The population is about 5.28million. The capital locates at Dancheng 
town. Xiangshan is one of the main fishery regions in Zhejiang Province. She is teeming 
with hairtail, yellow croaker, pomfret, and cuttlefish. Shrimp, oyster, kelp, laver are also 
cultivated there. Transportation there is convenient,\1fthe main ports including Shipu port 
and Hepu port. Architecture is famous in Shanghai, Hangzhou, Ningbo and other middle 
and large cities. 
\06fi
Shipu is 36 Km far from Dancheng, it covers 86.6 Km
2
 land area, including 70 villages and 
20 residential area. 
\06fi
The population is around 70,429 in 2000, among which, 26772 are town resident. Shipu is 
a main port in trading in this province. The port is flourishing with all kinds of aquatic 
products including hairtail, eel, cuttlefish, pomfret, yellow croaker, shuttle crab and 
shrimps. According to the statistics provided by the town government, the total output of 
industry and agriculture was 3.3billionRMB in 2000, among which, 2.1 billion was 
industrial output, and 1.2 billion was made by agriculture and fishery. Main industrial lines 
are marine products processing and built and repair of shipping vessels. The traffic in 
Shipu town is convenient in both land and water way. She can reach Liaoning province and 
Tianjin city in the north, Sha city in the west, Hainan and Guangdong province in the south 
by sea. Her passenger liners are directly sailing to Shanghai\1fJiaojiang\1fShengjiamen and 
other harbors along the sea. The harbor, famous for its calm space, covering 27 square 
kilometers, can berth 10,000 fish ships, big as 5000T ships, can also easily sail pass the 
harbor. There are many kinds of industries in Shipu, main industries are refrigerating and 
processing aquatic food. At present there are 200 refrigerating warehouses\1frefrigerating 
capacity 30000tons\1fdaily refrigerating capacity 2000tons. 
With the development of economy, culture, education and sanitation are improved too. Now 
there are two complete high schools, one vocational school of aquatic products, an adults’ 
technical school, 2 junior middle schools and 31 elementary schools, The rate of 
compulsory education is above 99% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  270
 
 109
 
Current Environmental Quality 
 
Current Environmental Quality and main environmental problems (air, ground water, 
underground water, noise and ecological environment) 
1.Ocean Water environment: In 2001, regular inspection was carried out at Shipu Port by 
Ningbo Environment Supervision and Testing Center according to Ocean Water Quality 
Standard No.GB3097-1997. The results shows that except the index of inorganic nitrogen 
beyond class IV of water quality standard, other indexes are all in accordance with the Standard 
of Class III for water quality stipulated in Project of Functional Division of Off Sea 
Environment of Zhejiang Province. 
2.Air: Of good quality and up to Standard II of GB3095-1996 Air and Environment Quality 
3. Noise: Supervised and tested by Xiangshan Environment Supervision and Testing Station in 
2002, the noise in the project is up to Standard III of GB3095-1996 Urban Environment Noise 
Standard. 
Main Environment Protection Objectives: (Name and Grade) 
  1.
 
Environment air,GB3095-1996 Standard II of Environment Quality 
2. According to Project of Functional Division of Off Sea Environment of Zhejiang Province, 
Shippu Port is classified as class IV function zone. Water quality should up to Class III 
GB3097-1997 Ocean Water Quality Standard. 
3. Environment noise: Standard III of GB3093-1993 Urban Environment Noise Standard. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  271
 
 110
 
 
 
Applicable Evaluation Standard 
 
Page  272
 
 111
Environment quality standard 
1. Air Quality: GB3095-1996 Standard II of Environment and Air Quality Standard.  
                                      Unit : mg/m
3
 
 annual 
average 
daily 
average 
hourly 
average 
SO
2
 0.06 
0.15 
0.50 
NO
2
 0.05 
0.10 
0.15 
TSP 0.2 
0.3 
/ 
 
2. Ocean Water environment: According to Project of Functional Division of Off Sea 
Environment Of Zhejiang Province, the ocean water should up to Class IV of GB3097-
1997 Ocean Water Quality Standard. 
Unit\1fmg/L 
Parameter 
PH DO 
COD
Mn
BOD
5
 
Inorgani
c 
Nitrogen 
Active 
Phosphate 
Standard 6.8-
8.8 
\1f3  
 ”
5m 
 ”
5 
 ”
0.5 
 ”
0.045 
 
3. Noise: Class III of GB3096-93 Urban Environment Noise Standard.
     
                 Leq[dB
\1f
A
\1f
]
 
Classification Daytime 
Night 
3 65 
55 
 
Page  273
 
 112
Foul Pollutant Drainage Standard 
1.Waste gas\1f\1fThe oil smoke in dining room should be disposed according to 
Catering Smoke Discharge Standard GWPB5-2000. 
Scale Small 
Middle 
Large 
The number of cooking stove 
 •
1, \1f3 
 •
3, \1f6 
 •
6 
General power of stoves\1f10
8
J/h\1f
1.67, \1f5.00 
 •
5.00, \1f10 
 •
10 
General project area of drainage 
of exhaust covers\1fm
2
\1f 
 •
1.1,\1f3.3 
 •
3.3,\1f6.6 
 •
6.6 
Max discharge density (mg/m
3
) 2.0 
Min removing rate of 
Cleaning machine (%) 
60 75 
85 
\1fThe discharge of stench shall apply to the Class II of Stench Pollutant Discharge 
Standard GB 14554-93. 
 
2. Waste water: Apply to GB8978-1996 Standard III of sewage Disposal Standard, but 
the Administrative Committee of Industrial Zone plans to dispose comprehensively the 
discharge of waste water, so every enterprise is allowed to discharge waste water 
according to their own internal standard. The chart below is part of the index.   Unit\1f 
mg/l 
    Item 
PH 
CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS 
NH
3
-N animal 
and 
plant oil 
Standard(mg/l) 6-9 
2000 
1200 
400 
150 
100 
 The Sewage Factory of the Industrial Zone applies to Class II of Waste Water 
Discharge Standard GB8978-1996. The chart below is part of the index.  Unit: mg/l 
Item PH CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS NH
3
-N Phosphat
e 
Standard 6-9 
150 
30 
150 
25 
1.0 
 
3. Noise: Noise in factory shall apply to Class III of Industrial Enterprise Noise 
Standard GB12348-90: Leq65dB during daytime and Leq55dB at night. 
Noise at construction site shall apply to Noise Limit at Construction Site 
GB12523-90
          Noise limit at construction site    equal acoustics grade dB(A)]  
Max noise 
Constructio
n Process 
Construction process 
Daytime Night 
cubic earth 
and stones 
Bulldozer. Excavator. fork-lift 
truck 
75 55 
pile driving 
different pile-drivers 
85 
prohibited 
structure 
blender, vibrator, electric-saw etc. 
70 
55 
fitment crane, 
elevator 
etc. 
65 
55 
 
Page  274
 
 113
total polluter 
control index 
 
 
 
 
Construction Project Engineering Analysis 
 
Page  275
 
 114
1. Processing Flow of cultivated fish: 
                   Waste water   .             squama 
 
Raw material 
\01:
 Cleaning 
\01:
classify and select
\01:
scaling
  
   
  Fish organs 
 
\01:
 clear the organs
\01:
 cleaning 
\01:
 quick frozen 
\01:
  Packed in polybags  
\01:
 
Metal detecting
\01:
 Refrigerating in ice box 
To choose fresh fish as raw material from clean cultivating area without being polluted. Use ice 
water to remove the impurities on the surface at first, then classify and select the qualified, 
scaling and clear the organs, quick frozen after cleaning. After frozen, pack in polybags, store 
in ice box after metal detecting. 
 
2. Processing flow of Shrimps. 
 
              Waste water   head of shrimps         
 
Raw material 
\01:
 Cleaning 
\01:
get rid of the head
\01:
classify
  
\01:
 quick frozen after packed in dish
\01:
 packing 
\01:
 
Metal detecting
\01:
 Refrigerating in ice box 
To choose white prawn as raw material from clean cultivating area without being polluted. 
Clean with ice water at first, then classify according to detailed specification and quick frozen 
after packed in dishes. After frozen, store in ice box after metal detecting. 
 
 
 
Page  276
 
 115
Main pollutant procedure & discharge 
1.Waste water: 
\1fProduction waste water: It is mainly generated from fish-cleaning and raw material. The 
annual discharge volume is about 63,000 tons. 
 
 
\1fLife waste water\1fAnnual discharge volume is about 4,500 tons. 
2.Waste gas\1f 
\1ffishy smell\1fThe odd smell is mainly made in the course of processing. 
\1fThe oil smoke in canteen: Waste gas discharges at 4000m
3
/h, with discharge density 
about 14-20mg/m
3
. 
3.Solid trash: 
\1fThis project needs 1,400 tons of fresh fish and 1000tons of white prawn, the finished 
products will be 1600tons after processing. Therefore, there will be 800tons of solid trash. 
\1fLife rubbish: This project requires 120 work staff, annual working day around 200days. 
If every one leaves 0.5kg of waste every day, the annual life rubbish will be 12 tons.  
Main Production Equipment\1f 
  
Refrigeration 1 unit, IQF machine 2 sets, flat freezer 4 sets, 
metal detecting machine 2 sets, inspection and testing machine 1 set, 
Vacuum packer 2 sets, Automatic packer 2 sets
  
 
Energy consumption:  
Water: 75,000 tons per year; Electricity: 2million KW. per year
 
 
Pollutants and their discharge 
Description 
Types 
Drainage(No.) Pollutant 
Density and amount 
before disposal 
Discharge density 
and amount 
Dinning room 
Oil smoke 
Waste gas\1f4000m
3
/h 
Oil smoke: 14-20 mg 
/m
3
 
Waste 
gas\1f4000m
3
/h 
Oil smoke\1f2.0mg 
/m
3
 
Atmosphere 
pollutant 
Raw material 
fish 
Fishy smell 
/ 
 
Fish-cleaning 
wastewater 
CODcr\1fSS 
etc. 
Waster 
water:63,000T/Y 
CODcr:2130mg/L 
Water pollutant 
 
life waste 
water 
CODcr\1fSS 
etc. 
Waster wate:4500T/Y 
CODcr:400mg/L 
Waste 
water:67500T/Y 
CODcr:150mg/L 
Production 
processing 
trash 
Fish organs 
and  
shrimp heads 
etc. 
800T/Y 800T/Y 
Solid trash 
Living rubbish 
/ 
12T/Y 
12T/Y 
Noise 
From freezing machine and refrigeration 
Page  277
 
 116
Others  
Main Ecology influence:
 
Croplands and ponds will turn into industrial zone upon the completion of this project. It has a 
permanent effect and change on the ecology of this area. 
 
Analysis of Environmental Effects 
Brief analysis of environmental effects during construction  
This project mainly includes sand and stones, piling, framing, wall building, transportation 
and pipe-pave. Main pollutants are noise resulting from the revolving of the machine, building 
waste and rain water at the construction site. Besides, dust from loading and unloading of sand, 
stone, concrete and lime also pollutes the surroundings. 
 
1) The protection of atmosphere environment:  
Walls should be built around the construction site and safety net around the buildings to 
prevent broken stones from the surroundings. Mining and abandoning soil in the construction 
site should be piled with plan. Building rubbish and abandoned soil should be taken away in 
time. Road with regular transportation should be watered regularly, building materials such as 
yellow-sand, pebbles, and cement should always be watered to prevent from dust. 
 
2) Water environment prevention 
Rainwater sewage, slurry sewage and deposited water on the site should be collected and then 
discharge to drainage pipe. Life waste water should be treated properly, temporary living 
facilities should be built, and oil-separating tank should be laid in the temporary kitchen of the 
dinning room. Toilet and septic tank are also should be built; the pollutant should be drained off 
through drainage pipe after disposed. 
 
3) Noise  Prevention 
 Advanced machinery and technology is employed during construction period, noise up to the 
standard at construction site. If necessary, construction at night shall apply for approval from 
environment protection administrative department.  
 
 
 
Page  278
 
 117
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  279
 
 118
Analysis of environmental effects during operation 
1.Waste gas disposal and analysis of environmental effects 
\1fStench: Mainly comes from in the process of processing fish and from blet fish. After 
disposal to reach the standard of Stench Pollutant Discharge Standard GB 14554-93. 
\1fDinning oil and smoke: The oil and smoke from dinning room and kitchen should be 
purified to the standard stipulated in Catering Smoke Discharge Standard GWPB5-2000, and 
then discharged to upper air via pipes 
The waste gas caused under this project has little influence to its surroundings. 
2.Waste water disposal and analysis of environmental effects 
The project has a total water consumption of 75,000 tons annually. The waste water drains 
off about 67,500 tons annually, 4,500 tons of which are life waste water. Waste water 
contains rich nutritious substances such as COD
cr
, suspended substances, organic compounds, 
nitrogen and phosphorous etc. The chart below is the average statistics of various waste 
water: 
      substances   contained 
Types of waste water 
COD
Cr
 BOD
5
 SS 
Production waste water 
2130 
/ 
1400 
Life waste water 
400 
200 
100 
This project will produce 135.99 tons of COD
cr
, 0.90 tons of BOD
5
, 88.65 tons of SS 
annually. Production waste water, life waste water and dinning waste water should, at first 
undertake first class processing such as oil separating and precipitating etc, as soon as the 
disposed waste water reaches the standard of the sewage treatment plant, leads to the plant. The 
chart below is a flow of predisposal of waste water. 
     
                  Chemistry           waste water 
waste water
\01:
grid
\01:
reaction pool
\01:
precipitation pool
 
\01:
 to 
drainage pipe of the industrial 
zone 
                              sludge 
Waste water after predisposal drains to sewage disposal plant to undertake further 
disposal. The plant is designed to adopt physical and chemical methods to deal with rubbish. 
The chart below shows how it works: 
   
                      alkali               waste water              drain out 
predisoposed waste water
\01:
adjusting pool
\01:
gas floating system
\01:
oxygen pool
 
\01:
 CAST pool 
                                                                      fan 
 
                
                                         
 fan mud pool
\01:
pressure and filtration machine
\01:
dry mud transport out 
 
Page  280
 
 119
3. Solid trash disposal and analysis of environmental effects 
Fish organs and head of shrimps can be used as the raw materials of fish powder, so it can be 
supplied to powder factory. And these trash are disposed every. Life rubbish will be disposed 
by local environmental and sanitary departments. Mud comes from waste water predisposal is 
transported to rubbish heap in order to avoid “the second pollution” 
4. Noise control measures and analysis of environmental effects 
Noises mainly come from refrigerating equipments, quick-freezing equipment, and they are 
also made in the process of production as well as by human being. Advanced sound insulating 
materials are used to lower down the noise. Greenbelt is developed around workshops. 
 
5. Analysis of environment risk  
Drainage of large amount of waste water will no doubt affects the quality of the off sea water. 
 
Page  281
 
 120
 
Measures on Environment Protection and Expected results 
 
Description 
Types 
Drainage(No.) 
Pollution Measures 
Expected 
effect 
Dinning room 
Oil smoke 
Purify and 
get rid of 
the dust 
Up to the standard, 
small influence to 
surroundings. 
Atmosphere 
pollutant 
 
Raw material 
fish 
H
2
S 
(CH3)2NH 
Absorb after 
filter in acid 
and alkali 
Up to the standard, 
 small influence to 
 Surroundings. 
Fish-washing 
wastewater 
CODcr\1fSS etc. 
Water 
pollutant 
 
living water 
CODcr\1fSS etc. 
Deposition 
Up to the standard, 
 small influence to 
 Surroundings. 
Feeding stuff 
processing 
Fish organs and  
fish head etc. 
To fish 
powder as 
powder  
material 
Become resource 
Solid 
pollutant 
Living rubbish 
 
To city 
 sanitary 
system 
Innocuitified 
Noise 
Small influence to surroundings after sound insulation. 
 
Others 
 
Page  282
 
 121
Ecology protection measures and expected effects: 
The completion of this project will promote the development of off sea cultivation. But if 
cultivation density becomes too dense, the water will be nitrified and thus break the balance of 
micro-ecology system. Therefore, collection amount of raw material must be based on the 
capacity of off sea cultivation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C o nclu s ion  a nd sug g e s t i on   
 
Page  283
 
 122
Conclusion:  
The completion of this project will benefit to the development of aquatic products cultivation 
of this county, and pave the way for fishermen to change their jobs. In the meantime, this 
project may protect ocean wildness fishery resource and ecology environment, move forward 
the sustainable development of the ocean fishery. This project is feasible in the view port of 
environment protection so long as the enterprise carries out seriously relevant environment 
protection principles and rules proposed in this evaluation in the course of construction. 
S
uggestion:
 To wide spread clean production, enlarge greenbelt, beautify surrounding, and 
improve the environment protection conscience of work staff. To protect the environment with 
heart and duty while develop economy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Page  284
 
 123
Approval suggestion:
 
As to the suggestion on the project of aquatic product processing of Ningbo Xianglong 
Aquatic Food Co., Ltd. put forwarded by Xiangshan Environment Protection Inspection 
Station, we mainly agree in principle. This is a new project, and the completion of which will 
be benefit to the development of the aquatic raising line of our county, and move forward to the 
sustainable development of ocean fishery. 
      The construction unit must strictly abide by relevant system; carry out the environment 
protection measures required in the suggestion. In the process of construction, the following 
must be strictly carried out: 
6. To wide spread clean production in order to reduce the consumption of water 
amount from the beginning. To recycle at most time so that reduces the drainage 
amount. 
7. Rainwater and waste water should be separately drained. Production and living 
waste water are supposed to reach standard II of Waste Water Letting out 
Standard GB8978-1996 after disposal.  
8. Solid trash must be placed in a fixed location, and carried to the fish powder 
factory periodically. Living rubbish should be send to City Environment and 
Sanitary Cleaning System. 
9.  Smell from the fish and shrimp should be let out via pipe in high air after 
collection and spray by acid and alkali. 
10. 
The construction unit should apply to the environment protection 
department for trial production in time after the completion of the project. The 
project can only be put in run after acceptance. 
The A/M items must be carried out seriously. 
We hereby agree the project of Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic Food Co., Ltd., who put forward 
to set up a new project of processing aquatic food with an annual output of 5000tons. 
 
 
 
Xiangshan Environment Protection Bureau 
Aug. 13, 2003 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  285
Approval and Registry Form of Environment Protection on Construction Project  
Registry Form unit
\1f                                          
Registry Form person
\1f
                                                 
Approval undertaker\1f
     
Project 
description 
Aquatic product processing 
Construction site
 
Xiangshan County Shipu Aquatic Products Processing Zone 
construction 
scale 
980ton of frozen fish product; 620ton of 
frozen PDTO 
Construction style
 
\01‘
 ¥
New 
\01‘
Rebuild &continuation       
\01‘
Techno-build 
classification 
1320 
Environment Protection 
supervised style 
\01‘
Compiling book  
\01‘
 ¥
 Compiling form   
\01‘
Register 
form 
Total 
investment 
(10000YUAN) 
3256.16 
environmental 
protection 
invest
(10000YUAN) 
60 
Environmental 
protection 
inve
st 
rate
\1f%\1f 
1.8 
Project- 
establishing 
Dept. 
Xiangshan County  Development Planning 
Bureau 
Approved file No. 
No.50[2003] 
Project 
established 
time 
2003.3.28 
 Construction Project 
Report 
Warrant 
Dept. 
Xiangshan County Environment Protection 
Bureau 
Approved file No. 
 
Approved 
time 
 
Name 
Ningbo Xianglong Aquatic 
Food Co., Ltd. 
Tel 
6572557
3 
Name 
Xiangshan Environmental 
Supervising and Protecting 
Station 
Tel 
65725923 
Address 
Xiangshan County Shipu 
Aquatic Products Processing 
Zone 
Post 
315731 
Address 
No.191 Xinhua Road 
Xiangshan 
Post 
315700 
C
onstruction- 
    unit
 
Legal 
representative 
Chen Zhengxiang 
Person in 
 charge 
Chen 
Mingyue
Evaluation  
unit
 
Certificate 
No. 
 
Evaluation 
expense
 
 
conditi
on 
enviro
nment 
Environm
ent
 quality  
class 
Atmosphere
\1f
Class \1f
GB3095-1996     
Surface water
\1f         Groundwater\1f        Noise:
 Type\1f
GB3093-1993       
Sea water
 \1f
Type III
  GB9097-
1997        Soil\1f          Others\1f 
Page  286
 
 
125
 
Environm
ent
 
sensitivity 
character 
\01‘
   Drinking water source protection district   
\01‘
   Natural protection district         
\01‘
  Famous scenery district              
\01‘
   Plantation and park     
\01‘
   Essential cropland protection district      
\01‘
    Ecology protection district        
\01‘
  Water and soil leave away protection area     
\01‘
 Ecology sensitive and fragile area  
\01‘
   Population dense area                 
\01‘
    Key cultural relic protection area    
\01‘
 ¥
 Lake          
\01‘
Reservoir 
Built + under built 
This project  
Total project 
Contaminatio
n 
drainage 
density 
In fact 
drainag
e 
density 
allowe
d 
 
general 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
In fact 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
allowed 
 
drainag
e 
density 
predicte
d
 
 
drainag
e 
density 
allowe
d 
 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
reducing 
capacity  
 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
predicte
d 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
 
reducin
g 
capacit
y of  
old and 
new 
section 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
predicte
d
 
drainag
e  
capacit
y 
allowe
d 
 
 
drainag
e  
in-
creasi-
ng 
capacit
y 
 
decrease 
amount in 
district balance 
replacement 
waste 
wa
t
e
r
 
      
6.75 
 
6.75 
      
 
Oxyen 
amount 
 required * 
  
    
2130 
150 
134.19 
 
9.45 
  
 
 
 
 
Ammonia and 
 ni t r og e n * 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Suspend 
substance 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Waster gas 
    
1400 
200 
88.2 
 
12.6 
  
 
 
 
 
Sulfur dioxide 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Smoke and 
dust 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial 
powder dust  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 pollutant let out standard and control 
Nitrogen and 
oxide 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Page  287
 
 
126
Industrial 
solid  
trash 
      
750  0 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
o
ther pollutant in 
relation with this 
project
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Unit\1fy waste gas capacity\1fx104 marked meter3/year\1fwastewater\1fton/year\1fmercury\1fcadmium\1flead, 
arsenic\1fchromium\1fchloride kg/year\1fother units are all tons\1fwaste gas density\1fmilligram/liter\1fWaste gas density milligram/lm 
Notes\1fThis list is written by the evaluation unit and attached on the last page of the report. The last blank is the characteri
stic 
pollutant. 
Among this\1f\1f5\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f-\1f4\1f\1f\1f6\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f+\1f1\1f-\1f4\1f 
 
Page  288
Project Environment Influence Report  
 
Project Name: Shipu Zhejiang Aquatic City Second Stage 
 
Construction company (sealed): Zhejiang aquatic city Xiangshan 
Fishing Trade and Develop Co. Ltd 
 
 
 
Xiangshan Environment Protection Bureau 
2003/8/2 
Enacted by National Environment Protection Bureau  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  289
 
 128
 
Z. 
         
 
  Responsibility Sheet  
Evaluated by:  Xiangshan Environmental Protection inspection office  
Evaluation company superintendent: Shi Yawing 
Project superintendent: Ni Jian-zhong  
 
 
 
Evaluation Personnel Situation 
Name  
Profession 
Title  
Work No. 
Responsibility 
Signature  
Ni 
Jianzhong  
Environment 
supervise 
Engineer  
Environmen
t Evaluation 
No. 
C20150002 
Censor  
 
Shi Yaqing  
Environment 
supervise  
Engineer  
Environmen
t Evaluation 
No. 
C20150001 
Report 
compile  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  290
 
 129
 
Project background
:  
 
Zhejiang aquatic city located at Shipu Trade zone Taiwan oriented, occupied 92000 
square meters, and construction 42500 square meters. Zhejiang aquatic city is formed by 
fresh transaction area, economical fish transaction area, meal transaction area, 
entertainment area and living area. Zhejiang aquatic city will set up 5350 square meters 
office building, open transaction lobby 10550 square meters, fresh transaction area 11000 
square meters, operation house (over 200 suites), 7000 square meters, parking area 2000 
square meters, 4 docks with each 1000 tons and also 7 ships and offer space to 60 ships to 
trade. Zhejiang aquatic city is a large comprehensive seafood wholesale market with 
function of purchasing, parking, cold storage and fishing material supply. In 2002, 
Zhejiang aquatic city seafood transaction volume reaches 286000 tons with total value 
RMB1.378 million. 
 
With the development of China marine resource continuous development, it will be 
essential to appropriately shrink catching scale and encourage ocean-farming industry. 
Recent year, farming industry of Xiangshan had developed quickly, more and more 
farming species are introduced, and farming scale are upgraded and perfect. At present, 
Farming species of Xiangshan reach 50; laver, swimming crab, and yellow croaker had 
been key farming products of Xiangshan.It had formed box and net farming, ocean or 
pool farming, laver farming etc, total 6 farming base. Farming personnel are over 20,000, 
farming area 23,000 MU, volume 100,000tons with total value RMB 1.1billion. 
 
Therefore, it is urgent to establish a farming seafood transaction market. So Zhejiang 
aquatic city second stage will be on schedule.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  291
 
 130
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name  
Shipu Zhejiang Aquatic city second stage project  
Constriction 
company 
Zhejiang aquatic city Xiangshan Fishing trade and develop 
Co., Ltd 
Proprietor 
Zhang Zhi-hong 
Contact person 
Zhang Zhi-hong
Address 
Zhejiang aquatic city Xiangshan fishing trade and develop Co., 
Ltd 
Telephone 0575-65972078 
Fax 
0574-
65982942 
Post 
code 
31573
1 
Construction 
place  
Shipu Industrial Park 
Project approval 
authority 
Xiangshan development 
plan bureau 
Approval 
document No. 
2003 Xiangshan 
Plan investment 
No 23  
Construction 
nature  
Newly build 
Trade type  
& code  
1320 
Occupied area 
(M
2
) 
35345 Green 
space 
(M
2
) 
 
Total investment  
RMB 
\1f63.88 
million 
Including 
environment 
protection 
investment  
RMB  
\1f1.3 million 
Proportion   2.03
% 
Evaluation 
expense 
 Expected 
operation date 
 
Page  292
 
 131
Project scale and content  
Zhejiang aquatic city second stage occupied 35345 square meters, with total 
investment RMB \1f63.88million.  
Build transaction lobby, business room, cold storage house, and management room 
etc. 
1)  Trading hall: 13156m
2
,  
2)  Business room: 2882 m
2
  
3)
 
Office building: 3000m
2 
4)  Ice making plant: 1000 m
2
 
5) Dock: 4 
6)  Machine room and power room: 900m
2
 
 
After this project is built, it is expected that aquiculture volume of Zhejiang 
aquatic city reach 45,500 tons with RMB 0.911billion value, and Ice making plant 
will product the ice 30,000 ton.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  293
 
 132
Original pollution related to this project and main environment problem  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  294
 
 133
Natural and social condition to develop project 
Natural condition brief introduction (Topography, geology, climate, weather, 
hydrology, Vegetation, diversified animals etc):  
4.  Location: Zhejiang Aquatic City Second Stage is at Shipu seafood processing 
industrial park (detail please refer to attachment). At East sea , Shipu is famous 
fishing harbor of china, north on Dongchen, Dingtang and Xiaotang town, West 
near Sanmen bay, south to Hepu, Gaotang town , East to Damu ocean and 
Maotou Ocean.  
5.  Geology: Shipu is belong to seashore Hill belt, low hill and islands account for 
70% of total county area. The old city developed from a narrow valley near 
seashore, so house is built base on slope and street follow as ladder. Above sea 
level of town is at 20-28meters above sea level of coastal area is at 3-4 meters. 
Dajin Mountain in West of Shipu is the highest place with 394 meters above 
sea level.  
Base rock of bank of Shipu harbor is formed by millstone rock of last Jurassic 
period, and main ingredient is gray, dark gray tuff. Geologic construct are 
mainly rupture, and lay at northeast, northwest, and also southwest direction. 
The out beach area of Shipu is plain accumulated by sea, rock immerse at tens 
meters depth. At No.2 dock, these rocks are generally 4-7 meters deep. Shipu 
have no record of earthquake above 5 grades. 
6.  Climate: Shipu is located at Monsoon of Subtropical zone, so climate character 
is warm and humid, clear change of four seasons, plentiful rainfall.  Winter is 
cold and fine due to control by cold air; spring is changeable between cloudy 
and fine due to weaken of cold air; at the beginning of summer its rainy 
continuous due to strengthen of subtropical high pressure; at the middle of 
summer its fine and hot, less of rain, at the same time typhoon will bring 
rainstorm and flood; spring is south-east wind, while winter north-east wind. 
Disaster weather including frost, low temperature, storm, drought, typhoon, 
rainfall and cold wave etc, especially typhoon, storm, drought, low temperature. 
7.  Weather: average temperature of many years: 16.2\1f;average temperature of 
January : 5.4\1f; average temperature of July: 33.8\1f; lowest temperature in 
record : minus 7.5\1f(Jan.16,1961 ) ; highest temperature in record 38.8\1f( 
August 20,1971 ). 
Average rainfall; 1392mm; rainy days: 23d; daily maximum rainfall in record: 
281.6mm; the longest continuous rainy days: 23d; annual maximum rainfall in 
record: 1756.2mm(in 1976); annual minimum rainfall in record: 770.6(in 
1967). 
Average humidity: 80%; annual sunshine time: 2025.8hr; no frost day of year: 
296.7d. 
Year leading wind direction: winter north wind, summer southwest wind. 
Annual average wind speed: 5.5m/s; moment fastest speed in record: 58m/s. 
Year highest ocean temperature of Shipu is 30\1f,while lowest ocean 
temperature 8\1f. 
8.  Hydrology and tide  
 The body to hold pollution water of this project is Shipu harbor. Shipu harbor 
connect to land at north-west, East to Shanbantouzui, Dongmen island, Duimian 
hill, Nantian island and Gaotang island from North-east to South-west to form a 
natural barrier line; west to Sanmen bay Shipu harbor from north to south, turn to 
south-west, form a curved moon, with total 18km long center line, at 0.4-3km 
width and 4-33m depth, total ocean square meters 27km
2. 
 
Page  295
 
 134
Social Environment brief introduction 
(social economy structure, education, 
culture, and culture relic protection etc.  
Xiangshan is between Xiangshan bay and Sanmen bay in East of Zhejiang, with 
east longitude from 131 34 – 122 20m, north latitude 28 45- 29 41. Xiangshan 
peninsula and 608 islands, with total land area 1175square kilometers, ocean area 
5000 square kilometers, and 528000 populations, form Xiangshan. County 
government is at Dongchen town. Xiangshan is key county of Zhejiang, rich of 
hairtail, yellow croaker, pomfret, cuttlefish and ocean farming shrimp, bi-valves, 
oyster, laver, and kelp etc. Xiangshan is convenient in ocean transportation, with 
Shipu and Hepu main port. Shipu town is 36 km far away from Dongchen town and 
total 83.6 square kilometers area, with 70 administrative villages and 20 residential 
districts.  
2000, Shipu has total 70429 population including 26772 residents. Shipu is main 
port of china and Zhejiang to trade and receipt Taiwanese. Shipu is rich of marine 
resource, such as hairtail, eel, flounder, pomfret, yellow croaker, grouper and 
swimming crab, prawn etc. According to data provided by Shipu government, in 
2000 among total output RMB3.3billion, including industrial value RMB 2.1billion 
and agriculture marine value RMB 1.2billion. Main industry of Shipu is seafood 
processing, ship building and maintain industry. Shipu is convenient in 
transportation: cargo transport north to Dalian, south to Hainan and canton, west to 
Shashi; passenger liner direct to Shanghai, jiaojiang, Shengjiamen etc; 27 square 
kilometers calm ocean area, can hold 10000 ship and 5000 tons vessels can pass 
her. Seafood processing industry is outstanding among other industry of Shipu. At 
present Shipu has cold storage more than 200 with cold storage capacity 30000 
tons, daily fast freezer capacity 2000 tons.  
Education of Shipu develop at the same rate of economy, at present, Shipu has 1 
marine profession school, 1 adult profession school, 4 middle schools and 31 
primary schools, compulsory education rate at 99%. 
Environment quality situation 
Project construction area environment quality situation and main problem (air 
condition, surface water, ground water, noise and ecological environment)  
4.  Ocean water environment: In 2001, Ningbo environment inspection center gave 
regular inspect to Shipu harbor according to GB3097-1997 Ocean Water 
Quality Standard and found that only inorganic nitrogen beyond the standard, 
while other three index were in line with the requirement of Zhejiang coastal 
environment area adjust plan. 
5.  Air condition: Index from Xiangshan environment inspection center indicated 
that air condition of Shipu is favorable, up to grade 2 standard of GB3095-1996 
AIR CONDITION STANDARD. 
6.  Noise: according to data provided by Xiangshan environment inspection center, 
noise of Shipu accord with third grade of GB3095-1996 city area noise standard  
    
Key environment protection target (list and protection grade)  
3.  Air condition protection grade is 2 grade of GB3095-1996 Environment Air 
Condition Quality Standard 
4.  According to Zhejiang Coastal Environment Area Adjust Plan, Shipu Ocean is 
four functional area and water quality is third grade of GB9097-1997 Ocean 
Water Standard. Environment 
5.  . Noise standard is third grade of GB3093-1993 city area noise standard. 
 
 
Page  296
 
 135
  
 
 
 
 
Environ
ment 
Quality 
Standard 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Environment air condition: second grade of GB3095-1996 
Environment air quality standard  
Unit: mg/m
3 
 
Annual average 
Daily average 
1 hour average 
SO
2
 0.06 
0.15 
0.50 
NO
2
 0.05 
0.10 
0.15 
TSP 0.2 
0.3 
/ 
 
 
 
2. Ocean water environment: According to Zhejiang Coastal 
Environment Area Adjust Plan, Shipu Ocean is four functional area, 
carrying out Four standard of GB9097-1997 Ocean Water Standard. 
Unit: mg/l.
Project  
PH 
DO 
CO
M
WN
 
BOD
5
 Inorgani
c 
nitrogen 
Alerting 
phospha
te 
Standard 
value 
6.8-8.8 >3 
 ”
5m 
 ”
5 
 ”
0.5 
 ”
0.045 
 
 
 
3.Environment Noise: Plant carry out third grade of GB3093-1993 city 
area Environment Noise standard. 
 
Leg\1fdB(A)\1f
Type Day  Night 
III 65 55 
 
Page  297
 
 136
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pollutio
n 
drainag
e 
standar
d
 
1. Polluted air:  carry out second grade II period standard of 
GB132712001 Boiler air pollution exhaust standard. Below sheet is part 
of standard 
                                              Unit: mg /m
3 
 
 
Project  
 
 
Standard 
  Value 
Smoke & 
dust 
drainage 
density 
Smoke 
black 
density 
(black 
density, 
grade) 
SO
2 
drainage 
density 
(mg/m
3
) 
NO
2 
drainage 
density 
(mg/m
3
) 
Oil boiler 
100 
1 
400 
400 
 
 
 
 
Dinning room snot Execute GWPB5-2000 food industry snot exhaust 
standard (trial) 
 
Scale  
Small 
Middle 
Large 
Basic ovens  
A
1,<3 
A
3,<6 
A
 6 
Correspond oven power 
1.67, <5.00 
A
 5.00, <10 
A
 10 
Correspond oven 
exhaust area 
A
1.1, <3.3 
A
3.3,<6.6 
A
 6.6 
Permit exhaust density 
(highest)  
2.0 
Purify remove rate 
60 
75 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
Unpleasant smell pollution standard figure shall follow detail 
requirement of GB14554-93 Unpleasant Smell Pollution Exhaust 
Standard, relevant Index refer below sheet  
 
Unpleasant smell (II grade, rebuild) 
20 
 
Page  298
 
 137
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pollutio
n 
drainage 
standard 
 
2. 
Polluted water:  
 Carry out II standard of GB8978-1996 Polluted water drainage 
standard,  
Project  
PH  
COD
cr  
BOD
5
  
SS NH
3
—
N 
 
Animal & 
plant oil  
Standard 
value  
6—
9 
150 30  15
0 
25 10.0 
 
Polluted water will be handled by Management committee of 
Industrial park together, so each company are permitted to use internal 
standard  
Project PH COD
CR
 BOD
5
 
SS NH
3
-
N 
Animal & 
plant oil 
Standard 
value 
6-9 2000 
1200 400 150  100 
 
3.  Noise: noise within plant carry out III standard of GB12348-90 
industrial enterprise noise within plant standard. 
Lea [dB (A)]
Type Day  Night 
III 65 55 
 
Noise of construction place carry out GB12523-90 Construction place 
noise limitation                    
         Lea [dB (A)]
Noise limitation 
Construction 
period  
Key noise resources 
Day  
Day  
Earth & stone   Bull-dozer, excavator, 
loader 
75 55 
Pile drive  
Various pile driver  
85 
Forbid  
Constructio
n   
Construct  
Kneading machine, electric 
saw etc 
70 55 
Decoration 
Crane, elevator etc 
65 
55 
 
Page  299
 
 138
 
 
 
 
Volume 
control 
index
 
According to Xiangshan Shipu seafood industrial park first stage 
environment influence report, pollute water treatment center shall be 
built with daily 5000 tons water treat capacity.  
Project PH 
CODc
r 
BO
D
5
 
SS NH
3
-N
Animal & 
plant oil 
Standard 
figure 
(mg/l) 
6-9 
2000 
1200 
400 150 100 
 
Drain of polluted water in industrial park carry out II grade GB8978-
1996 polluted water drainage standard. 
Project analysis 
 
Processing procedure and polluted procedure  
 
1.  Seafood transaction procedure  
 
 
Ocean catching seafood, farming seafood  
                                     Transportation  
               Aquatic city (dock, transaction lobby, cold storage house)  
                           
                     Simple processing  
                      
Inspection and quarantine  
 
Transportation 
Trade at transaction lobby  
                  
Transportation 
Customer 
 
 
 
 
 
Transaction period whole years are 12 months, new add seafood transaction volume: 
45,550 tons, annual transaction volume RMB \1f0.911 billion. 
Three main pollution situation 
Page  300
 
 139
 
 Density 
(mg/l) 
Annual production 
( tons ) 
remarks 
Polluted 
volume 
--------- 91100 
CODcr 1200 109.3 
Polluted water  
SS 270 
24.6 
Polluted air ( fish’s unpleasant 
smell) 
Disorder exhaust  
Solid pollution 
-------- 
455 
Refer to 
exhaust index 
of Xiangshan 
main pollution 
source 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Ice making plant:  
 
Ammonia machine ---------------------
\01
 noise  
                         
Vapor 
condenser 
                              
Water   --
\01
 ice storage   ------
\01
 ice   ------
\01
 Ice Grinder   ------
\01
 sale   
 
 
 
 
Production period whole year are 9 months, each time (36 hours) produce ice: 180 
tons, annual produce ice: 30,000 tons, raw material consumption: water 31,500 
tons/year 
 
 Density 
(mg/l) 
Annual 
production 
(tons) 
Remarks 
Polluted 
volume 
-------- 1500 
CODcr --------  -------- 
Polluted water  
SS -------- 
-------- 
Refer to 
exhaust index 
of Xiangshan 
main pollution 
Page  301
 
 140
Polluted air 
Ammonia air 
Accident leak  
Solid pollution 
------ 
--------- 
------ 
source 
 
 
 
 
3. Living 
area 
Calculated at 5000 temporary person in the trading hall, 400 regular person, 150 
supervisors and 50 workers in the ice making plant. Person in processing plant, there will 
be 1400 regular personals and 1400 temporary personnel count by 300 workdays whole 
year .It is 270 days to trading. 
Polluted water: regular personnel calculated at 0.1cubic meters per person each day, 
while temporary personnel calculated at 0.01 cubic meters per person each day 
Solid pollution: living garbage calculated at 0.5kg per person each day  
 
 Density 
(mg/l) 
Annual 
production (tons) 
Remarks 
Polluted volume 
 
29700 
CODcr 500 
14.85 
Polluted 
water  
SS 200 
5.94 
Snot of dinning room 
Exhaust volume 6000m
3
/h, 
snot density 14-20mg/l 
Polluted air  
Fish’s unpleasant 
smell 
Disorder exhaust  
Solid 
pollution. 
--------  
32.4 
Refer to  
Exhaust 
index of 
Xiangshan 
main 
pollution 
source 
 
 
Inspection monitor system equipment 
 
Name  
Unit 
Quantity 
Unit 
p
rice
Price 
Digital scale 
Set 
1.0
12,000.0
12.00
Quick Pestcide test equipment 
Set 
1.0
5,000.0
5.00
Toxic Testing machine 
Set 
1.0
4600.0
4.60
Incubator Set 
2.0
2740.0
5.48
Autoclave  
Set 
1.0
5000.0
5.00
Acidity Testing Equipment 
Set 
1.0
2640.0
2.64
Microscope  
Set 
1.0
1870.0
1.87
Analytical balance  
Set 
1.0
1470.0
1.47
Utravality Analyzer 
Set 
1.0
950.0
0.95
Refract meter 
Set 
1.0
350.0
0.35
Close electric cooker  
Set
1.0
225.0
0.23
Page  302
 
 141
Close electric cooker  
Set 
1.0
225.0
0.23
Adjustable siphon 
Set 
1.0
100.0
0.10
Deepfreeze   
Set 
1.0
1600.0
1.60
Magnetic mixer 
Set 
1.0
350.0
0.35
Constant temperature water 
tank  
Set 
1.0
900.0
0.90
Refrigerate Set 
1.0
1700.0
1.70
 
 
 
Producers’ equipment  
 
Name  
Unit 
Quantity 
Unit price 
(Yuan)  
Price 
RMB’ 000 
8AS17 refrigerate compressor  
Set 
1.0
130,000.0 
130.00
8AS125 refrigerate compressor  
Set 
2.0
75,000.0 
150.00
Condenser Set 
2.0
75,000.0 
150.00
Cooling tower 
Set 
1.0
80,000.0 
80.00
2.2KWammonia pump  
Set 
4.0
3,750.0 
15.00
Rotate evaporation machine  
Set 
1.0
80,000.0 
80.00
Ice Hoist 
Set 
1.0
150,000.0 
150.00
Small Ice ginder  
Set 
10.0
5,000.0 
50.00
Insulated Ice container  
Set 
1,200.0
200.0 
240.00
 
 
 
Water and electricity system  
 
Name  
Unit 
Quantity 
Unit price 
(Yuan)  
Price 
RMB 
’
000 
Water purify machine  
Set 
2.0
100.0 
200.00
Disinfections facility 
Set 
2.0
50.0 
100.00
250KW electrical machines  
Set 
1.0
200,000.0 
200.00
 
 
 
 
Main pollution Procedure  
 
1. 
Polluted air analysis 
 Polluted 
air 
type 
Polluted air  
Exhaust type  
Page  303
 
 142
Transaction lobby 
Fish’s 
unpleasant 
smell 
----- Disorder 
 
Ice produce 
Fish’s 
unpleasant 
smell 
----- Disorder 
Freeze facility 
ammonia leak  
Ammonia  
------- 
Disorder 
Other (living)  
Dinning room  
Snot 
Snot density 
14-20 mg/m
3
 
Exhaust at 
high place  
 
 
2. 
Polluted water analysis  
CODcr SS 
 Polluted 
water 
volume 
(cubic 
meter) 
Density 
(mg/l) 
Annual 
productio
n (mg/l) 
Density 
(mg/l) 
Annual 
productio
n (mg/l) 
Transaction 
lobby  
91100 1200  109.3 
270 
24.6 
Ice produce 
1500 
----- 
 
----- ------ 
----- 
Others (living)  
29700 
500 
14.9 
200 
5.9 
Total 
122300 
----- 124.2 
----- 30.5 
 
 
3. 
Solid pollution  
 
Solid pollution 
Annual production (ton) 
Transaction lobby 
Fish offal  
455 
Ice produce 
------ 
------- 
Others (living) 
Living garbage 
32.4 
 
 
4. Noise 
 
 
Noise source  
Decibel 
Transaction lobby 
People’s noise 
80-90 
Ice produce 
Ammonia machine 
80-90 
Air conditioner  
60-70 
Others (living) 
Electrical machine 
90-100 
 
 
Main pollution and exhaust situtation 
Page  304
 
 143
 
 Exhaust 
No. 
Pollution 
name 
Density & volume before 
treatment 
Exhaust density 
and volume  
Transactio
n lobby 
Fish’s 
unpleasan
t smell 
Disorder exhaust  
- 
---------- 
Ammonia 
leak 
accident  
Ammonia  
--------- 
 
------------- 
Air 
pollut
ion  
Dinning 
room 
Snot  
Snot density 14-20 mg/l  
Snot density 
 2.0mg/l  
Trading 
hall  
CODcr,  
SS 
Polluted water volume: 
 91100 tons/year  
CODcr: 1200mg/l  
SS: 270mg/l 
Ice 
making 
plant  
CODcr, 
SS 
Polluted water volume: 
 1500 tons/year 
 
 
 
 
 
Water 
pollut
ion 
Living 
polluted 
water 
CODcr,S
S 
Polluted water volume: 
 29700tons/year 
 CODcr: 500mg/l  
SS: 200mg/l 
Polluted 
 Water volume: 
 199210 tons/year 
CODcr<2000mg/
l  
SS<270mg/l 
Transactio
n lobby 
Fish 
visceral, 
fish head 
etc. 
 
 
455 tons per year 
No exhaust  
 
Solid 
pollut
ion  
Living  
Garbage  
32.4tons per year 
204 tons per year 
Noise  
Coming from noise of transaction lobby, ammonia machine, and air 
conditioner.  
Other
s 
   
 
Main Ecologic influence: after implement of this project, original farming land, pool 
will turn into industrial park, definitely change land use type and effect environment. 
Page  305
 
 144
 
 
Construciton period Environment influence brief analysis: 
 
 
Construction period are including project as earth and stone, pile driving, structure, wall 
build, decorating, transportation, pipeline arrange etc. Pollution caused at this period is 
noise caused by machine, and building garbage, water pollution and dust. 
1) Noise treatment  
Adopt advanced machine and technology to enable noise within limitation. Work during 
night cause noise pollution shall be approved by Environment protection bureau if 
necessary 
 
2) Air treatment  
Surrounding of construction place shall build wall, and building shall be protected by 
safety net to avoid any breakage to effect surrounding environment.  Dig earth and Desert 
earth shall be explored and placed by planed. And construction garbage and desert earth 
shall be prompt take care and cleaned.  Water shall be regular watered to road vehicles 
often passed and construction material to avoid produces more dust. 
 
3) Water treatment  
Polluted water, mud water and floor water shall be collected and drained to special ditch 
after sediment. 
 
 
Environment influence analysis during operation period:
 
 
1.Polluted air treatment and analysis on effect to environment  
Choose qualified oil boiler, polluted air must meet GB13271-2001 Boiler air pollution 
exhaust standard. Adopted measurement as reasonable layout, strengthen workshop 
management and clean floor in time is to reduce or eliminate influence of unpleasant fish 
smell. 
Dinning room will use snot purify machine to meet requirement of GWPB5-2000 food 
industry snot exhaust standard (trial), influent little to Shipu harbor.   
  
2. Noise control measurement and analysis on effect to environment  
Page  306
 
 145
Adopted measurement, as reasonable layout and insulation of noise to reduce noise to 
outside plant and ensure not intervene with outside resident, influent little to 
environment. 
 
3.Solid pollution treatment and analysis on effect to environment  
Solid pollution of this project is fish head, visceral and bone. Fish head, visceral, bone 
can be processed as meal and further use of resource. influent little to environment. 
Living garbage can be cleaned by local sanitation bureau, and put in Shipu garbage 
cleaning system, through harmless treatment, influent little to environment. 
Page  307
 
 146
4.Water pollution treatment and analysis on effect to environment 
This project will add to 600 tons polluted water on daily average.  
Pollute water of this project
 
is coming from trading hall, ice making plant and living, 
with composition of CODcr, SS, animal and plant oil etc. It can adapt to this 
processing. 
 
Medicament
 
 
Polluted 
water  
\01:
 
Grill  
\01:
 
The reaction  
Coagulates 
pool  
\01:
Precipitation 
pool  
\01:
 
Polluted 
water 
pipes 
 
 
 
Polluted 
mud 
 
 
 
Because design ability of the original sewage system is 5000 ton on everyday .If it 
isn’t extended, sewage factory could not accept quantities of   polluted water. Advise 
Aquatic City processing Second Stage to adapt to this.
 
 
Alkali  
 
 
Polluted 
water
 
 
Adjustive 
pool  
 Air 
float 
system 
     
Oxygenic 
Pool  
 Cast 
pool  
 
 
Polluted 
mud  
 
Compress 
and 
filtrate 
Machine  
 Carry 
mud  
 
  After being dealt with through the grille, sediment etc to achieved II grade of 
GB8978-1996 Polluted Water Drainage Standard, polluted water will be let in Shipu 
harbor. There is little influence on Shipu harbor.  
 
Sewage system  
Name  
Unit 
Quantity  
Unit price 
(Yuan)  
Price 
RMB 
’
000 
Physical treatment 
equipment Set 
1.0 
450,000.0 
450.00 
Pipeline, water 
pump 
  
  
0.0 
100.00 
Polluted water pool  
  
  
0.0 
250.00 
 
Blower 
Let  
Page  308
 
 147
Project protection measurement & expected achievement 
    Project 
Type 
Exhaust 
source 
Pollution Name 
Protection 
Treatment  
Expect 
Achievement 
Trading hall  
Unpleasant fish 
smell 
 
Reasonable layout, 
clean floor in time 
 
Influence little 
to environment 
Ammonia 
accident 
leak  
Ammonia Strengthen 
maintenance  
Reduce accident 
occurrence 
Air 
pollution  
Dinning 
room 
Snot Snot 
purify 
 machine  
Meet standard 
to exhaust 
Living  
Trading hall  
Water 
pollution 
Ice making  
plant  
 
CODcr, SS 
 
 
Polluted water 
treatment system  
 
Influent little to 
Shipu harbor 
Trading hall 
Fish head, 
visceral, bone 
Meal material, 
comprehensive use  
 
 
Resource  
 
Solid 
pollution 
Living  
Living garbage 
Cleaned by 
sanitation bureau 
Harmless 
Noise  
Insulation noise from ammonia machine and other machines from 
workshop and noise absorb board shall be equipped at transaction lobby.
Other  
 
Environment protection measurement & expect achievement  
Apply more green belt measurement to meet relevant green area stipulation of Ningbo 
Government. 
 
Conclusion and suggestion  
1. This project is rebuild project, with total investment RMB \1f63.88 million. Project 
will build trading hall, business house, office building, ice making plant, docks and 
machine/power room etc.  
2. As analyzed, polluted air, water, solid pollution and noise caused during processing 
must be exhausted when all figures are meet relevant standard after treatment, influent 
little to environment. 
3. Conclusion: this project will be an impulse, integration and improvement to Shipu 
seafood processing industry. Project is feasible from environment protection point in case 
all pollution source exhaust after meet standard. 
4.Suggestion: 1) carry our clean processing, eliminate pollution through control from 
beginning. 2) Solid pollution shall be recycled to comprehensive utilize 3) strengthen 
Page  309
 
 148
plant green belt construction, to reduce noise and foul smell.4) intensify “ 3 same time” 
management project. 
 
 
Approval comments: 
 
Basically we agree environment comments from Xiangshan Environment Protection 
and Inspection center on Shipu Zhejiang aquatic city Second stage project. 
  
Construction Company of this project must strictly carry out "3 same time " principle; 
apply all required environment protection measurement. During implement of this 
project, company must ensure that: 
1. Polluted water from transaction lobby, cold storage house, and processing plant must 
be let through grille, sediment, chemical treatment to achieved II standard of GB8978-
1996 Polluted Water Drainage Standard then to drain to Shipu harbor. Daily-polluted 
treatment capacity must reach 600 tons per day. 
2. Measurement such as reasonable layout and insulate equipment source of loud noise 
shall be adopted to enable noise exhaust as per limitation at border of plant. 
3.solid pollution from transaction lobby such as fish head, visceral and bone will be  
Further used by Meal Company. Sanitation Bureau will clean living garbage. 
4.When project is implement, Company must received qualification from Environment 
protection bureau then begins to operation. 
Construction Company shall sincerely carry out above-mentioned measurement. 
It is agree to approval of this project.  
 
 
 
 
 
Xiangshan Environment Protection Bureau  
2003/8/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  310
 
 149
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  311
Project Environment Protection Approval Register List 
 
Company(sealed ):                  Fill form( signature)\1f                               Project handling person(signature)\1f 
Project 
name 
Zhejiang Aquatic City Second Stage 
Construction place  
Shipu Industrial Park  
Content 
and scale 
Transaction Lobby13156M
2
, Business House 2882 M
2
, cold Storage 6649 M
2
, processing plant 6649 
M
2
 
Construciton Nature  
\01‘
New build 
\01‘
Rebuild  
\01‘
Technical improvement   
Trade type  
1320 
Environment Protection 
 Management Type 
\01‘
Report Enact  
\01‘
Enact Report Sheet  
\01‘
Fill Register 
Total 
investment 
(RMB1000
0) 
6388 
Environment investment 
 (RMB10000) 
130 Proporti
o
Proposed 
by  
Xiangshan Develop and Plan Bureau 
Propose 
Document No. 
2003 Xiangshan 
plan investment 
No.23 
Propose 
Date 
Project 
Approve 
Authority 
Xiangshan Environment Protection Bureau  
Approve document NO. 
 
Approve 
Date  
Company 
Name  
Xiangshan fishing trade and develop Co. Ltd  
Telephone: 
65972078 
Company 
name 
Xiangshan 
Environment 
protection 
Inspection 
bureau  
Tel: 
ADD 
Xiangshan Fishing Trade and develop Co., Ltd  
Post Code 
315731 
Add 
No.191 Xinhua 
road, Xiangshan  
Post Co
d
Construction 
Company   
Proprietor 
Zhang Zhi-hong 
Contact with 
Zhang Zhi-
hong  
Evaluation 
Company  
Document 
No. 
 Evaluati
o
expense 
Environme
nt quality 
 Grade 
Air Environment: II Grade GB3095-1996   Surf
ace Water: Gr
oundwater:   
Noise Environment: II grade GB3093-1993 Ocean water: III GB
9097-1997 Earth: Other:  
Environment 
situation of 
surrounding 
Construction 
place  
Environme
nt 
sensitivene
ss 
 Character
 
\01‘
Drink water source protection area  
\01‘
natural reserve area       
\01‘
Scene spot      
\01‘
forest park   
\01‘
Basic farm land protection area  
\01‘
ecological protection area     
\01‘
 earth 
e
key protection area      
\01‘
 ecological sensitiveness and fragility area      
\01‘
 Population dense area  
\01‘
 key cultural protection area  
\01‘
3 river ,3 lake, 2 control area          
\01‘
 t
h
reservoir area  
Page  312
 
 
1
Existing project (already constructed + 
construing) 
This project (plan)  
Total project (existing + construction + plan to 
construction) 
Pollution 
Actual 
exhaust 
density  
Permit 
exhaust 
density  
Actual 
exhaust 
total 
volume 
Permit 
exhaust 
total 
volume 
Expected 
exhaust 
density  
Permit 
exhaust 
density  
Produce 
volume  
Self 
reduce 
volume 
Expect 
exhaust 
volume 
Permit 
exhaust 
total 
volume 
New 
replace  
Old to 
 reduce 
volume 
Expect 
exhaust 
total 
volume 
Permit 
exhaust  
total  
volume 
Exhaust 
increase 
and 
decrease 
volume  
Polluted 
water 
____ 
____ 
 
 ____ 
_____ 
12.2 
 
12.2 
 
    
Oxygen 
chemical 
 demand * 
   
 1000 
<150 
124.2 
-105.9 
18.3 
 
    
Ammonia 
nitrogen * 
 
 
 
     
 
 
    
Petroleum 
   
     
 
 
    
Polluted 
air 
 
____ 
____ 
 
  ____ 
____ 
 
 
 
    
SO
2     
* 
   
     
 
 
    
Dust    * 
   
     
 
 
    
Industrial  
dust   * 
   
     
 
 
    
NO
2
 
   
     
 
 
    
Industrial 
solid 
 pollution  
* 
____ 
____ 
 
  ____ 
____ 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
Pollution 
Exhaust 
Standard and 
Total 
Volume 
(Industry 
Construction 
shall sign 
detail) 
Other 
pollution 
related to 
this project  
  
 
 
 
  
 
Remarks: 1.  * Is pollution exhaust volume stipulated at “ Tenth-five year plan”? 
        2. Increase and decrease volume of Exhaust: (+) means increase, (-) means decrease 
3. Account Unit: polluted water exhaust: 10000tons per year, polluted air exhaust volume ----10000cubic meter per year, Solid p
ollution exhaust volume-10000tons 
per, 
Polluted water exhaust density: mg/l, polluted water exhaust volume: cubic meter per year, air pollution exhaust volume: ton pe
r year. 
 
 
 
 
Page  313
 
 
2
 
 
EXIT                                                                   ENTRY  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OFFICE BUILDING  
BUSSINESS ROOM  
 
 
TRADING HALL  
 
BUSSINESS 
BUSSINESS 
PA
RK
 
ICE 
MAKING 
PLANT 
 
SEWAGE 
SYSTEM  
Page  314
 
 
3
DOCKS 
 
 
 
Zhejiang Aquatic City Project Second Stage Evaluation Report   
Page  315
Project Social Evaluation 
 
Implement of Zhejiang aquatic city project second stage will complete comprehensive function 
of aquatic city, improve production efficiency of aquatic farming, as well as promote economy 
development. 
1.Project will contribute to establish local fisher supply and service network and 
basement integrate fishery, manufacturer and trade.  
Shipu marine industry started early and developed into large scale already. With 
abundant marine resource, Shipu is fishing raw material supply and demand center 
for East sea fishery. Zhejiang aquatic city located in Shipu town, through year’s 
operation, has turned into main seafood trading market of Southeast China. 
Development of Zhejiang Aquatic city will boost local fishery industry and local 
economy’s development. 
This project will improve logistics and cargo dispatch capacity of Zhejiang 
Aquatic city; turn it into large seafood logistics center with advanced transaction 
style, complete in function and flexible in information. This project will also 
improve transaction effectively, fasten transaction step and widen business field to 
eventually solve the problem that fisherman difficult to selfish. This Project will 
also play a positive role in marching Shipu seafood to international market and 
further expend export and generate more foreign exchange. What’s more, enlarge 
of aquatic city will guide and promote local fish catching, farming and processing 
industry’s development, ease farming fisherman’s worry about marketing. This 
Page  316
 
 1
project will propel to form mordent marine fishery system that seafood circulation, 
catching, farming and processing will count on each other and develop 
harmoniously. 
II. Promote local economy development and improve popularity of Shipu. 
Abundant marine resource and developed marine industry will be Xiangshan’s 
advantage and characteristic. Take this advantage, Xiangshan County had set up 
strategy to flourish Xiangshan through marine industry and give priority to develop 
marine industry consist of modern fishing and marine tourism, Implement of this 
project will be another significant step Xiangshan adopted to propel marine 
industry’s economy.  
In addition, Shipu is provincial leveled center town and aim to develop into 
modern harbor with travel spot. Therefore, construction of aquatic city will 
influence Shipu’s development, upgrade fishery harbor’s comprehensive function, 
put forward marine industry’s development, meanwhile improve infrastructure of 
Shipu and environment, and make best use of existing resource.  
Implement of this project will increase Popularity of Shipu, enlarge city  
frame, accelerate development of tertiary, speed up urbanize step lf ship. 
III. This project will ease labor pressure and stabilize social order. 
This project will accelerate economy development of Xiangshan country ,form 
new economy district headquarter as Shipu harbor .This project will create more 
Page  317
 
 2
job opportunity for local people. As indicated by analysis, this project will 
directly attract 260 people. This project will also promote local tertiary 
development and will offer near 30,000 job opportunity in seafood processing, 
food and beverage and service area, and also may bring out 10,000 or so farming 
fisherman, greatly accelerate development of local economy and further improve 
people’s living standard, stabilize social order. 
IV. This project will increase tax revenue and improve economy efficiency. 
Since the establishment, business scale of Zhejiang aquatic city have been 
expanded, top daily seafood transaction volume reach 1000 tons and annual 
transaction volume 300,000 tons. After second stage of china aquatic city put in 
place,
 
The water product trades will concentrate aquiculture .It is expected that 
aquiculture volume of Zhejiang aquatic city reach 45,500 tons with RMB 
0.911billion value .It is expected to add RMB
\1f
16.87million profit and 
\1f
5.56 
million tax income .It is of sound economical achievement. 
Project finance evaluation  
1.This project total invests RMB 63.88 million, convert to USD 7.7million. 
Including: reserve current assets RMB5.72 million; actual net investment 
RMB58.16 million, convert to USD 7million. 
This project construction period is 1 years and will put in place in 2005 estimated 
transaction value reach RMB 0.455 billion, operation income RMB22.9 million, 
Page  318
 
 3
convert to USD2.79 million, profit available for allocation RMB16.87 million 
convert to USD2.03 million. 
Investment profit rate: 29.01% 
RMB16.87 million  
——––––———————   
× 
100 = 29.01% 
RMB58.76 million  
2.pay back capacity analysis  
Pay back capacity analysis of this project is referred to pay back capacity analysis 
for loan principal and interest from World Bank. 
Principal from World Bank is USD3 million with 16years return period ,including 
1 year construction period ,and 15 years pay back principal and interest period 
.Therefore this project need to pay back principal USD 200,000 plus interest USD 
54,500 total USD 254,500 annually .Under the guidance of principle FIRST 
GUARANTEE TO PAY BACK LOAN FROM WORLD BANK ,Amount to pay 
back loan principal and interest from World Bank is mainly coming from operation 
years’s deduct depreciation funds and unallocated profit .It is expected that annual 
unallocated profit reach USD 2.03million ,while amount to pay back 
USD254,500,account for 12.53% of total unallocated profit ,and also decrease 
accordingly each year .This is strong proved that this project can ensure to pay back 
Page  319
 
 4
loan principal and interest to World Bank .Detail please refer to pay back principal 
and interest sheet .   
3 Balance analysis  
According to average figures of normal operation years from finance evaluation, 
take BEP for example, if BEP is 72%, which indicated that if we design production 
capacity to reach 72%, operation revenue would reach RMB 16.81 million, this 
project will make no deficit. This illustrated that this project is of sound anti-risk 
capacity. 
4.Social achievement analysis  
a.  Second stage of Zhejiang aquatic city is one of 100main projects of Ningbo 
municipal, leading project of Xiangshan country. After implement of this 
project, it will complete fishing production and service system, of this project, it 
will complete fishing production and service system, integrated fishing, 
manufacturer and trade into product basement. 
b.  After implement of this project, it will create near 30,000 job opportunity in 
seafood processing, food and beverage industry, service industry and 
transportation field, bring out around 10,000 farming fisherman, boost local 
economy and improve people’s loving standard.  
Page  320
 
 5
c.  Make best use of market’s function to congregate, dispatch and circulate 
seafood, to eventually solve farming fisherman’s problem to sell fish, clear up 
their worry and make them concentrate on seafood farming. 
This project is of sound social achievement. 
                   
 
Shipu Seafood Industrial Park 
Environment Influence Report 
 
Responsibility Sheet  
Evaluation Institution : Environment influence  evaluation Research office of Zhejiang 
University 
Institution Director:  Wang Dayun ( professor, Environment Evaluation Certificate No.05467) 
Project Director: Zhou Weiming (senior engineer, Environment Evaluation certificate No.08761) 
Enact by : Yang Xiaoqiu ( Engineer, Environment Evaluaiton certificate No.12051) 
Participants : Yang Queping ( tutor,Environment Evaluation certificate No.08759) 
           Yu Xiaoming (tutor,Environment Evaluation certificate No.12081) 
Shi Ganggang ( assistance engineer, Inspection and analysis ) 
Zhuge Zhengyu(assistance engineer, Inspection and analysis) 
Tan Enting ( Engineer, Inspection and analysis) 
Approval: Shi Huixiang ( vice professor, Environment Evaluation Certificate No.05466) 
Cooperation institution: Xiangshan Environment Inspection Office 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  321
 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Catalogue 
Preface   
AA. Part 1  Summary  
1.1 Evaluation intention 
1.2 Enact basis  
1.3 Evaluation standard and implement grade  
1.4 Evaluation grade , scope , emphasis and protection object 
Part 2  Surrounding Environment Brief Introduction  
2.1 Geography location  
2.2 Natural environment  
2.3  Social envrionment  
2.4 Main pollution source  
2.5 Overall plan of Shipi  
Part 3  Project Brief Introduction 
  3.1 Project name and construction nature  
  3.2 construction content  
  3.3 Project Investment  
  3.4 Production plan 
  3.5 First stage plan of Shipu seafood Industrial park 
  3.6 Public project  
  3.7 Employee 
  3.8 Construction progress 
Part 4  Project Analysis  
  4.1 Comparison Survey Situation 
  4.2 Analysis on Pollution source  
  4.3 Pollution drainage list of this project  
Page  322
 
 7
Part 5  Evaluation on Water Quality Current Situation and Influence  
5.1 Evaluation on current water quality  
5.2 Evaluation and expectation on water environment 
5.3 Summary 
Part 6  Evaluation on Air Quality Current Situation and Influence 
6.1 Air condition character 
6.2 Evaluation on current air quality situation 
6.3 Expectation on air quality environment 
6.4 Summary 
Part 7  Evaluation on Noise and Solid Pollution  
7.1 Noise  
7.2 Soild pollution 
Part 8  Analysis on Zoology Environment and Environment 
Influence during Construction Period 
8.1 Analysis on Zoology environment  
8.2 Analysis on environment influence during construction period 
Part 9  Public Participant 
9.1 Survey intention, method and content 
9.2 Survey scope and object 
9.3 Survey statistics, analysis and result 
9.4 Summary 
Part 10  Environment Management and Inspection 
10.1 Complete Environment Protection Institution 
10.2 Strengthen Environment Protection Management 
10.3 Strengthen Environment Protection Inspection 
Part 11  Pollution Treatment and Total Volume Control  
11.1 Pollution Treatment During Operation Period  
11.2 Analysis on Total Volume Control 
11.3 Pollution Treatment List  
Part 12  Environment and Economy Profit and Loss Analysis  
12.1  Social Achievement  
Page  323
 
 8
12.2  Economical Achievement 
12.3  Environment Achievement  
12.4  Enviroment Investment 
12.5  Environment Investment and Proportion Analysis 
Part 13  Summary and Suggestion  
13.1 Environment Quality Current Situation 
13.2 Pollution production of this project  
13.3 Pollution Treatment 
13.4 Drainage Volume of Pollution  
13.5 Evaluation and summary on Environment Influence  
13.6 Total Summary    
 
Attached Drawing : 
1.  Project Location drawing  
2.  Project overall plan drawing  
3.  Surrouding drawing of this project  
4.  Wind direction and speed of Shipu  
5. 
Water Quality Inspeciton Point  
 
BB. Attachement  
   Approval from Ningbo Government on Establishment of Shipu Trade Zone  
CC. Attached  Chart   
Environment Protection Register Sheet for construction project  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  324
 
 9
 
 
Preface  
 Xiangshan Shipu located at middle coastal line of Zhejiang province, 120KM away from 
Ningbo, is famous for fish habour and II opening harbor to the outside world, named “ Important 
Town of middle Ocean of Zhejiang “. Economy is depend on marine industry,and most of 
company in shipu are seafood frozen company, processing company.. At present, Shipu has more 
than 200 company.Recent year, with the fast development of marine industry, especially 
completement of China aquiatic city, seafood processin industry of Shipu developed quickly 
accordingly. 
In 1999, seafood processing value reach RMB1.13billion. To respond to new development trend , 
in Step. 2000, Shipu government had lauch a modern industrial park with clear industry 
orientation and strong radiation , named Shipu Seafood Industrial Park , with toal 1KM2 square 
meter, first stage of industrial park plan to acquisite 43.8ha ( 0.44 KM2 ). 
 According to relevant environment protection rule, construction of Shipu seafood industrial park 
shall analyze environment influence , so administrative committee of Seafood Insutrial park 
entrust Zhejiang University to Evaluate environment influence of seafood industrial park first 
stage ( below is call only Project for short). Base on primitive information , our office will work 
with Xiangshan Environment Inspection office to analysis , research and prove up , then work out 
Plan on environment influence evaluation of Shipu seafood industrial park first stage. 
With agreement of Xiangshan Environment Protediton bureau , our office will work with 
Xiangshan Environment Inspection bureau to inspect air , water, noise etc environment current 
situaiton and also compare with relevant existing company, enact this environment influence 
report base on collection , sort out and statistics of relevant information. 
During cooperation time, we had obtained support and guidance from Xiangshan Environment 
Protection Bureau , and also strong assistance and close cooperation from Shipu government,  
We will take this opportunity to thanks for all your help. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  325
 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 1 Summary  
1.1 Evaluation intention 
Through comparison investigation, we make sure that possible pollution this project may bring  
and the degree it may effect environment,also predict possible area and extent pollution may  
exhaust. Base on knowledge, we can propose reasonable pollution treatment, provide evidence 
for decision of environment protection bureau and company. 
1.2  Evidence to Enact  
  1. [1998]no.253 rule of State Council of PRC on Construction project Environment Protection  
and Management rule 
  2. Environment Influence Evaluation Technical Guidance of Nationa Environment Protection  
Page  326
 
 11
Bureau) HJ/T2.1-2.3-93)(HJ/T2.4-95) 
  3. [1999]No.165 of Environment Protection Bureau of Zhejiang province on Notice for 
comments 
on carry on constructon project environment protection management rules       
  4. [1994]No.191 of Ningbo municipal government on approval of Establishment of Shipu trade 
zone orient to Taiwannese 
  5. [2000]Shipu seafood Industrial Park first stage detail plan enacted by Ningbo scheme 
&design  
research institution 
  6. [1999]Xiangshan Town System Scheme  enacted by Xiangshan government 
  7. [2001]Environment Evaluation and implement plan of Shipu Seafood Industiral Park first  
stage enacted by Environment influence evaluation and research office of Zhejiang University. 
  8. [2001] Environment Influence Technical Consulation Contract of Shipu seafood industrial 
park first stage    
 is signed by administrative committeE OF shipu Industrial park adnd Zhejiang University. 
 
1.3 Evaluation standard and implement grade  
1. According to [2001] no.242 Notice of Regulate Zhejiang coastal environment function area 
issued by Zhejiang development and plan committee, Zhejiang Environment protection burea,  
Shipu harbor is 4grade function area, so water quality standad of Shipu will carry on  
4 grade standard of Ocean Water Quality Standard (GB3097-1997). Detail please refer to Chart 
1-1  
Chart 1-1 Ocean water quality standard value( unit: mg/l, except for PH) 
Index  
PH 
CODmn
BOD
5
DO Total chrome 
Abio-azote 
four kinds standard value  6.8-8.8 
 ”
5 
 ”
5 
 •
3 
 ”
0.5 
 ”
0.5 
 
2. Each company in industrial park shall carry on III grade standard of polluted water drainage 
standard ( GB8978-1996), but since industiral park will handle unite treatment of polluted water 
,so each company are allowed to carry on internal standard of drainage polluted water ( refer  
to chart1-2) . Index of flow in Polluted water of treatment center in industrial park is based  
on this internal standard. Through unite treatment, polluted water from treatment center will  
drain as per II standard (GB8978-1996). Detail please see chart 1-2. 
Chart 1-2 polluted water drainage standard value ( unit: mg/l, except for PH) 
parameter PH 
CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS 
NH
3
-N propagation oil 
second standard value 
6~9 
 ”
150 
 ”
30 
 ”
150 
 ”
25 
 ”
15 
third standard value 
6~9 
 ”
2000 
 ”
120 
 ”
400 
 ”
150 
 ”
100 
 
 
3. Air condition of  Evaluation area  will carry on II standard of Environment air quality standard 
Page  327
 
 12
(GB3095-1996). Detail please refer to Chart 1-3. 
Chart 1-3 air enviroment quality standard (unit: mg/m
3
)  
No. 
pollution name 
Inspection time 
second grade standard 
 
 
year average 
0.06 
day average  
0.15 
1 
sulfur dioxide  SO
2
 
1 hour average 
0.5 
year average 
0.2 
  
2 
Total suspend 
products   TSP 
day average  
0.3 
year average 
0.08 
day average  
0.12 
3 
nitrogen dioxide   
NO
2
 
1 hour average 
0.24 
 
 
4. Air from Boiler in industrial park will carry on 2nd area and II time standard of Exhaust 
standard of  
Air pollution from boiler ( GWPB3-1999). Detail please see chart 1-4. 
Chart 1-4 boiler pollution permitted  drainage chroma(unit: mg/nm
3
) 
boiler type 
applying area 
period of time 
soot
SO2 
Lingemaidi black degree 
\1f 
250
1200
1 grade 
coal boiler 
sencond type 
area 
\1f 200
900
2 
grade 
 
 
5.Noise will carry on 3 grade standard of City area noise standard (GB3096-93). Detail please 
refer to Chart 1-5. 
Chart 1-5 city area noisy enviroment standard value (equivalent noise grade dB(A)) 
 applying 
area 
day 
night 
 
 
third type area 
65 
55 
 
 
 
6. Noise of each company in industrial park shall carry on III grade standard of Industrial  
compnay noise standard ( GB12348-90). Detail please refer to Chart1-6. 
Chart 1-6  industrial enterprises noise standard value(equivalent nonse grade dB(A)) 
 type 
 
day 
night 
 
 
\1f type area 
65 
65 
 
 
 
Page  328
 
 13
7.Noise during construction period shall carry on noise limitation of construction area ( gb12523-
90).  
Detail plese refer to chart 1-7. 
Chart 1-7 construction noise limitted value(equivalent dB(A)) 
noise limitation 
construction period  
key noise resources 
Day  
Night 
erath&stone 
Bull-dozer, excavator, loader 
75 55 
pile drive 
Various pile driver 
85 
prohibit to 
construct 
constructure 
Kneading machine, electric saw etc 
70 55 
decroration 
Crane, elevator etc 
65 55 
1.4 Evaluation grade, scope , emphasis and protection object 
1.4.1 Evaluation grade and scope 
 Water: Polluted water drainage volume in this project is 2633m3/d , and drain to shipu harbor. 
function area is 4 grade area, ocean water quality carry on 4 standard of GB3097-1997.  
According to environment influence evaluation technical guidance ( HJ/T2.3-1993) , water  
environment evaluation of this project is III grade. Evaluation scope is core as drainage point ,  
with 1.5km radius half round ocean area. 
Air:  According to Environmnet Influence Evaluation Technical Guidance (HJ/T2.2-93),aire  
environment evaluation is third grade, . Evaluation scope is core as boiler chimney with 
4kmx4km area. 
Noise : According to Environment Influence Evaluation Technical Guidance ( HJ/T2.4-1995), 
noise 
evaluation is third grade. Evaluation scope is 1m away from plant edge. 
 
1.4.2 Evaluation Emphasis  
Main content of Environment influence evaluation of Shipu seafood industial park first stage 
including: 
  1. Through investigation and inspection of character on local current social , economy, 
zoomlogy and nature  
environment, we get a general idea about construction place current situation. 
  2.Through analysis and comparison of this project, we can figure out pollution source of  
this project and degree of pollution. 
  3. we can also predict degree and scope of potential environment influence to surrounding 
after completion of this project 
  4.Base on above mentioned information, we can propose correspond pollution treatment and  
give feedback to construction of this project under control total exhaust volume,improve  
environment and accelerate development principle.Treatment emphasis shall lay on point 2&4,  
focus on water, combine with air,noise and solid pollution.    
Page  329
 
 14
 
1.4.3 Protection object  
 Water environment: shipu harbor. Water quality of shipu harbor shall be maintain at present  
level, avoid influent to west farming area. 
 Air : Air quality of village mentioned in Chart1-8 shall meet standard. 
 Noise: Noise at plant edge shall not beyond standard. Village mentioned in chart 1-8 and A  
resident area on the north shall not be affected. Detail location please refer to Attached drawing 
1. 
Chart 1-8 main protect object 
No. Name  position 
distance(m) 
householder 
total 
population 
1 Dongbian 
village 
N 
100 
192 
638 
2 Beishan 
village 
NE 150 
188 
635 
3 Zhongxin 
village 
N  100 
163 
550 
4 Xibian 
village 
NW 
150 
137 
434 
5 Xiatang 
village 
W  25 
198 
663 
6 
A dewelling area 
N 
70 
100 
300 
7 
Shipu construture area 
NE 
1000 
23000 
70249 
8 
breeding aquatics fields 
W 
150 
Farming crab, area 6MU, the scoop 
of the water in the west of the 
project  
 
Remarks : *distance measure is based on edge of  industrial park 
** A resident area is refered to resident area at north of Nangang road.
 
Part 2 Surrounding Environment Bbrief Introduction
 
2.1 Location  
Shipu is at the south end of xiangshan penisular, north latitude 29 12' , east longtitude 
at 121 56', 36km away from Dencheng town. North is Changguo town, Dingtang town and 
Xiaotang  
town. South is Shipu harbor and Liyu ocean. Detail please refer to Attached drawing 1. 
 This project is at south-west of shipi town. East is Geshi hill, south Shipu harbor , west Xiatang 
village 
north Xiban village, Center village and Beishan village. Detail please refer to Attached drawing 
1. 
 
2.2 Natural Environment  
2.2.1 Topography and geology 
Shipu town is combine by Tantou island, Dongmen island, Yushan islands and earth area,total 
86.06km2 , including Islands area 18.18km2. 
Page  330
 
 15
Shipu is belong lto coastal hills area, low hill and islands account for 70% of total area.  
Old town of shipu is built base on slope and street follow as ladder. Above sealevl of twon is at 
20-28meters,  
sea level of coastal area is at 3-4 meters,Danjin mountain in west of Shipu is the highest place 
with  
394meters above sea level. 
Base rock of Shipu harbor bank is formed by millstone of last Jurassic period, and main 
ingredient 
is gray, dark lava and tuff. Most geology construct are rupture. and lay at north-east ,north-west 
and also south-west direction. The outbeach area of shipu is plain accumulated by sea, rock  
immerse at tens meters depth. At No.2 dock, these rock are genreally 4-7 meters deep. Shipu 
have no 
record of earthquake above 5 grade. 
 
2.2.2 Climate 
Shipu is located at Monsoon of subtropical zone, so climate character is warm and humid. clear 
change of four seasons, plentiful rainfall.Winter is cold and find due to control by cold air, 
Spring is changeable between cloudy and find due to weaken of cold air. At the begining of 
summer 
its fine and hot, less of rain, at the same time typhoon will bring rainstrom and flood; spring is  
south-east wind, while winter north-east wind. Disaster weather including frost, low temperature, 
storm , drought, typhoon , rainfall and cold wave etc, and typhoon cause lots of destruction. 
 Main wind direction : winter wind is north direction, summer is south-east direction. Annual 
average speed at 5.5m/s, fastest speed at 58m/s. 
Basic climate character of Shipu as below:  
Annual average temperature: 16.2  
January average temperature : 5.4  
July average temperature: 27.0  
Topest temperature : 38.8( August 20,1971) 
Lowest temperature: -7.5  ( Jan.16,1961) 
Average rainfall: 1392mm 
Rainfall day:163d 
longest continuous rain day : 22d 
Annual maximum rainfall: 1756.2mm(1976) 
Annual minimun rainfall: 770.6mm(1967) 
Average comparative humidity: 80% 
Annual sunshine time: 2025.8h 
frostless time of whole year:296.7d 
 
Page  331
 
 16
2.2.3 Hydrology and tide  
 The body to hold pollution water of this project is Shipu harbor. Shipu harbor connect to 
land at north-east, east to Shanbantouzui ,Dongmen island, duimian hill, Nantian island and 
Gaotang island from north-east to South-east to form a natural barrier line; west to Sanmen bay. 
Shipu harbor from north to south, turn to south-west, form a curved moon, with total 18km long 
center line 
, at 0.4-3km width and 4-33 depth,total ocean square meter 27km2. Covered ocean area is around  
100km2, can hold tens of thousands ships, and allow 8,000 tons steamer pass shipu harbor. 
Shipu harbor current trend is traditional half a day tide. Average tide is 2.14m, average  
low tide is negative 1.4m , average tide difference 3.54m. Rising tide begin from south-east 
entrance , on the contract while ebb tide. Rising tide close to W direction,while ebb tide close  
to E direction, current in back and forth, basicaly turn in clock direction. The fastest current 
happen at 5 hours after high tide.The current is slow when rising tide, the surface speed is 
0.55m/s  
while the lower at 0.37m/s;The rising tide period  of surface will be 7 hours and 7 minustes, 
while  
the rising tide period of the lower 6 hours and 24 minutes. The current of ebb tide is fast 
, the surface speed is 0.75m/s, while the lower at 0.96m/s; the ebb tide period of surface  
will be 6 hours and 15 minutes , hwile the lower 6 hours 5 mmonites. 
Minus current of Shipu harbor is NE direction, surface and the lower are consistent, speed at 0.1-
0.2m/s. 
Wave of shipu harbor is mixed  wave mainly formed by well up wave. Wave height generally 
less  
then 8 meters. When typhoon is coming, the highest wave of shipu harbor can reach 1.5m.   
 
2.3 Social Environment  
 Xiangshan is between Xiangshan bay and Sanmen Bay at east of Zhejing provinc, with east  
longitude from 121
0
 34'-122
 0
20', north latitude 28
0
 45'-29
0
 41'. Xiangshan is formed by 
Xianghan  
penisula and 608 islands, with total land area 1175 km2, ocean are 5000 km2 and 528,000 
population. 
County government is at Dancheng town. Xiangshan is key marine county of Zhejiang, rich of 
haritail,yelow croaker, pomfret, cuttlefish and ocean farming prawn, razor clam , oystr, laver,and 
kelp etc.Xiangshan is convenient in ocean transportation, with shipu and hepu harbor.  
 Shipu town is 36km away from Dancheng town and total 83.06km2, with administrative village 
and 20 residential district.In 2000, Ship has total 70429 population including 26772 town  
residents. Shipu is main port of Zhejiang and even China to trade and orient to Taiwannese. 
Shipu is rich of marine resource, such as hairtail, eel , flounder, pomfret, yellow croaker  
grouper, and swimming crab, prawn etc. According to data provided by Shipu government, in 
Page  332
 
 17
2000 among total output RMB3.3billion, including industrial revenue RMB2.1 billion and marine 
value of agriculture 
RMB1.2billion. Main industry of Shipu is seafood processing , ship building and maintenance 
industry. Shipu is convenient in transportation: cargo transportation north can reach Dalian 
, south to Qionghai, west to Xisu , passenger steamer can direct to Shanghai, jiaojiang ,  
Shengjiamen etc.27 km2 clam ocean area, can hold tens of thousands of ships and 5000 Tons 
vessel 
can pass here. Seafood processing industry is outstanding among other industry of shipu.  
At present, Shipu had cold storage plant more thand 200 , with total cold storage capacity  
over 30,000 tons, daily  fast freezer capacity 2000 tons. 
 
2.4 Surrounding Pollution source  
Main pollution source of this project is  Ningbo JInghai aquatic food co.,ltd ,  
process frozen spanish mackerel . In 2000, polluted water drainage volume reach  
60,000 m3/a, CODcr exhaust volume 9t/a. Detail location please refer to Attached drawing 4 . 
2.5 Overall plan of Shipu Town  
2.5.1 development Aim 
 Shipu town is south economy, culture center of Xiangshan county, ocean economy basement of  
Zhejiang province,at the same time Shipu is a modern harbor and scenic spot with long history. 
2.5.2 Land utilization direction 
Center development area is focus on existing Shipu town , expand to south-west, and north-east. 
South-west is to develop industrial park with seafood processing , machine processing industry. 
North-east is to develop resident, commercial and scenic spot area. Overall plan of Shipu town  
please refer to Attached drawing 2. 
2.5.3 Development emphasis  
Shipu will completely carry on " rely on harbor to develop export oriented economy, give priority 
to infrastructure and boom marine industry with technology support " strategy, and take 
advantage of superior harbor and strengthen infrastructure construction, improve city and harbor 
traffic ,  
expand more service field and upgrade harbor function. 
Steps such as Fasten step to boom marine industry with technology support, increase technology 
investment, and further develop marine economy, encourage far ocean catching and ocean 
farming and seafood further processing will be adopted to turn shipy into marine base, processing 
base and ocean protect base. Depend on private economy, shipu shall fasten development of new 
technology industrial park and lauch relevant favorable policy to encourgae company from 
nearby town such Changguo, Xiangtang move to industrial park. 
Shipu will take endeavour to develop trade and finance ,  set up area commodity and prodcution  
element circulation network, strengthen harbor service function; Shipu will also make effort to 
develop education and culture career, creat sound environment to cultivate and attract more 
Page  333
 
 18
technology personnel and maintain long term economy and social development and flourish of 
city  .Shipu will sort out and explore more marine culture and exert its culture resource to play a  
positive role in economy and culture development. This project choose south-west of shipu to 
develop industrial park focus on seafood processing and machine processing, so land this project 
choose is complied with Shipu land utilization plan. 
This project is a modern industrial park with higher level industry layer, attrace more seafood 
processing company move into industrial park, accelerate economy development of Shipu,  
in line with Overall develop plan of shipu. In a word, development of this project is in line  
with overall plan of shipu. 
     
 
Part 3 Project Brief Introduction 
3.1 project name and construction nature 
Project name : First stage of Shipu seafood industrial park 
Construction nature: new building  
3.2 construction content 
This project east to Junming Road, South to west Xinggang road, west to Xixia road,  
north to Nangang road, total occupy 43.8ha( 0.44km2 ) , including industrial land 21.9ha. 
Detail please refer to 3-1 chart, company in industrial park must be II tpye industy ( i.e.  
seafood or food processing industry ), III tpye industry company are forbiddened to enter  
industrial park. 
Chart 3-1 using land gathering chart 
No. 
using land property 
using land area(ha) 
proportion 
1 
dewelling using land  
0.78(11.7MU) 
1.83 
2 
business using land  
0.50(7.5MU) 
1.17 
3 
second type using land 
21.90(328.5MU) 
51.42 
4 
public green using land 
7.04(105.6MU) 
16.54 
5 road&square 
using 
land 
9.38(140.7MU) 
22.02 
6 
enviroment facilities using land 
0.71(10.65MU) 
1.67 
7 
reserved using land 
2.28(34.2MU) 
5.35 
Total construction using land area 
42.59(638.85) 
100 
water area 
1.21(18.15MU) 
\ 
total 43.8(657MU) 
 
 
 
3.3 Project Investment 
 
Planned total investment reach RMB57.2million, detail please refer to Chart 3-2 
 
chart 3-2 project invested fee budget  
Page  334
 
 19
No. 
project name 
total invest(RMB 10,000) 
1 
all kinds of constructure 
3430 
2 
infrastructure  as road, pipeline  
2010 
3 land 
scaping 
280 
4 total 
5720 
 
3.4 Production Plan  
Most of company in industrial park are seafood processing company. At present, company in  
industrial park including shell processing plant, meal processing plant, seafood procesing plant 
and ocean microorganism plant.Detail please refer to chart3-3 and exact location please refer to  
attachement 3. 
Enterprise Name  List  
No. enterprises name 
Area 
total 
invest(RMB10,000)
production 
content 
year 
production(t) 
remarks 
1 
Ningbo Chaoxing 
Ocean Biological 
Products Co.,LTD 
21.9 1500
Ocean 
Biological 1700 
constructing
2 
Ningbo Ningda Ocean 
Biological Technical 
Co.,LTD 
14.1 1000
Ocean 
Biological 1300 
constructing
3 
Xiangshan Ocean Heli 
Co.,LTd 
8.45 300
Shell 
processing 250 
constructing
4 
Xiangshan Kehai 
Biological Co.,LTd  
7.95 300
Shell 
processing 250 
constructing
5 
Ningbo Nanfang 
Aquatic food Co.,LTD 
7.5 400
seafood 
processing 1000 
constructing
6 
Xiangshan Honghai 
Food Co.,Ltd 
12.45 300
seafood 
processing 1500 
constructing
7 
Xiangshan Marine 
Foodstuff  Co.,LTd 
7.2 450
seafood 
processing 1500 
constructing
8 
Xiangshan Shipu 
Guolong Marine 
Co.,LTd 
18.9 200
seafood 
processing 1000 
constructing
9 
Shipu Yongfang Freezer 
company 
5.85 600
seafood 
processing 1200 
constructing
10 
Ningbo Hongda Green 
Seafood Co.,Ltd 
11.85 500
seafood 
processing 1000 
constructing
11 
Xiangshan Shipu 
Dongfang Co,LTd 
100 12000
seafood 
processing 35000 
constructing
12 
Shipu Dongbian Meal 
Plant 
4.2 150
meal 
processing 
1500 
put in place 
Page  335
 
 20
13 
Ningbo Haishan Feida 
Seafood CO.,Ltd 
9 700
meal 
processing 
3000 
put in place 
14 
Xiangshan Shipu 
Dongyang Seafood 
Co.,LTD 
3 200
meal 
processing 
1000 
put in place 
15 
Xiangshan Shipu 
Fatfree Meal Plant 
2.85 200
meal 
processing 
1200 
put in place 
total 
235.2 
19000  
  
  
 
3.5 First stage layout of seafood industrial park 
 overall layout drawming of first stage of seafood industrial park please refer to Attachemnt 3. 
structure of first stage of seafood industrial park is 2 axis and 3 district. 
2 axis is refer to scenery axis and center service axis. 3 district is refered to east and west 
industrial land and resident land . West Xinggang road will through whole industrial park , 
and is axis for scenery . two axis is connect at " T" , separate industrial land of this project as  
east and west part.Planned industrial park are only for II type industry ( food processing 
industry). 
III type industry are strictly forbiddened. Planned industrial land reach 328.5 Mu. 
Industrial park will along west Xinggang road , set up a main entrance square at conjunctionpoint  
of Geshi shan and Jiashishan, outstand it as memorial archway, and also put a stainless steel 
status 
to symbolize fast develop industry. 
 Planned public service of this project is refered to office and commercial service related to  
this project. Public service layout adopt center and block style. 30m land scaping will be put 
between  
industrial part and resident part . 
3.6 Public project  
Water supply. Water is supplied by Shipu Water plant, connect from Junming road. with DN400 
pipeline. Daily water consumption of tHis project is expected to reach 3000M3/d. 
water drainge. It will adopt rain and polluted water separation system. Rain will be drained 
directly to river nearby. Polluted water must drain to treatment center of industrial park through 
special pipeline  . Daily polluted water drainage volume is expected to reach 2633m3/d. It will be 
drained to Shipu harbor after meet drainage standard through treatment.power supply. This 
district will be equipped with power control house. 10KV power line will introduce from west 
Xinggang road. Power line will be supply from high place, and reserve space for more power 
supply. 
Transportation.Transportation in industrial park are quite convenient. West Xinggang road in 
south will be 36 meters width, expect to be main road for industrial park , and in east- west 
direction, east extend to Shipu town, west to Jinxing town. Junming road in east and Guard road 
in middle both will be 18 meters width.expect to be second main road for industrial park and in 
south-north direction, connet to west xinggang road to link outside.Xixiang road in west is 18 
Page  336
 
 21
meters width, for passengers use instead of for car.Fire Extinguish. adopt low pressure system 
connect to resident livng water. water pipeline must over 200mm diameter for fire extinguish 
switch. distance between each fire extinguish switch must less than 120m. 
3.7 Employee 
this project plan to enroll 3300 employee, 300 annual working day . 
3.8  Construction step  
This project plan to finish within 4 years, from 2000-2003 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  337
 
 22
 
 
 
 
Part 4 Project Analysis 
4.1 Comparison Survey Situation 
4.1.1 Xiangshan Huayi seafood co.,ltd 
4.1.1.1 Company brief introduction 
 Xiangshan Huayi seafood co.,Ltd located at Dancheng,Xiangshan, established in 1996, with  
total 10 MU area, is agriculture key company in Xiangshan . Now company has more than 300   
employee and 300 annual workding day, main product frozen spanish mackerel fillests. In 2000, 
company had fulfiled annual sales revenue RMB50million. 
4.1.1.2 product plan 
In 2000, company annual production volume reach 6000tons . 
4.1.1.3 raw material consumption 
Raw material conjsumption please refer to chart 4-1 
chart 4-1 Raw Material Consumption sheet 
No. name 
consumption(t/a) 
1 
spanish mackerel  
8000t/a 
2 water 
67500m
3
/a 
3 power 
1280000kw.h/a 
 
4.1.1.4 processing line  
company has 2 workshop, one is for fish classification and the other is for processing. 
processing line is as below: 
1.  fish classification workshop 
                               Polluted water from classification  
spanish mackerel      washing    fast freeze     classification , ice and packing      cold storage    
processsing workshop 
2.processing workshop  
frozen spanish fish      defrozen     classificaiton      IQF      classification,ice packing       cold 
storage       transportation 
 
4.1.1.5 main product equipment  
Page  338
 
 23
refer to chart 4-2 
 
chart 4-2Main manufacture equipments of Xiangshan Huayi aquaitic 
food Co., Ltd 
No. 
equipments name 
type & specification 
quantity
1 
cold storage machince 
300t 
3 pc 
2 deepfreeze 
room 
200t/d 
1set 
3 
tunnel deepfreeze machine 
24m long 900kg/h 
1 pc 
 
4.1.1.6 pollution treatment and drainage situation 
1. polluted water : coming from fish classification, polluted water volume is 225m3/d 
(675000m3/a). According to Inspection report on factory's polluted water treatment center 
from Xiangshan Environment protection, detail index for water quality please refer to chart4-3. 
Base on these index, CODcr exhaust volume is 47.3t/a, BOD5 exhaust volume is 27t/a, SS  
exhaust volume is 27t/a 
chart 4-3 water quality of seawage treatment's volume 
  
CODcr  BOD
5
 SS 
water quality of coming into 
2133 
1000 
1400
water quality of coming out 
700 
400 
400 
acturallly wiping off rate 
67 
60 
71 
 
 
Company annual production volume is 6000t, polluted  water factor for seafood processing plant 
is 11.25m3 polluted water per ton production. 
Polluted treatment center of this company goes like below: 
                                Add Drug   
 
Polluted water      Grille        Sediment      Drainage   
                              Mud 
                                Filter          Dry mud send outside 
Design treatment capacity is expected to 300m3/d, actual treatment volume is 225m3/d. 
Through  reaction ,sediment treatment, polluted water drain into Xiangshan Industrial park  
to further treated. 
2. polluted air: company use no gas, no boiler, so there is no boiler air pollution .  
unfavorable smell will exhaust during processing. 
3. solid pollution: come from 2 parts, one is from fish classification, the other is mud from  
polluted water treatment. the first one is mainly fish head,visceral, tail and so on, with total 
2000 t/a, which will all sent to meal processing plant as raw material. 
mud volume is 1130kg/d(338t/a), through dehydrate treatment and sell to brick processing plant. 
Page  339
 
 24
4. noise : coming from ammonia machine, ammonia pump, power supply machine, cooling tank. 
 
Chart  4-4 main equipment noise sources degree 
No. 
noise resources 
noise resources intention 
1 ammoniac 
machine 
82 
2 ammoniac 
pump 
90 
3 dynamotor 
100 
4 cooling 
tower 
85 
 
4.1.2 Ningbo Chaoxing ocean biology products co.,ltd 
4.1.2.1 company brief introduction 
Due to no existing ocean biology company to compare, this environment reprot is based on 
environment 
influence register sheet of ningbo chaoxing ocean biology products co.,ltd enacted by Xiangshan   
environment protection and inspection bureau(2001). company plan to build plant in west of 
industrial park, 
detail location please refer to attachment 3. Compnay will occupy 21.9MU land, 300 annual 
working day . 
Company business scope cover seafood proecessing, focus on solid pollution from fish 
classification to produce  
meal and defrozen fish  
4.1.2.2  production plan refer to chart 4-5 
 
Chart 4-5 Production 
plan  
 
No. 
Production  
Capacity ( t/a) 
1 meal 
  1000 
2 
dry seafood  
500 
3 defrozen 
protein 
200 
 
4.1.2.3 raw material consumption 
raw material consumption please refer to chart 4-6  
 
 
 
chart 4-6 raw material consumption volume 
No. name 
consuming 
capacity 
1 
carp solid pollution 
4500t/a 
2 fresh 
fish 
1500t/a 
3 water 
6000m
3
/a 
4 power 
60000 
kw.h/a 
Page  340
 
 25
5 coal 
500t/a 
 
4.1.2.3 processing line  
1. meal processing line 
Fish classification solid pollution    cooking    fatfree filter   dry    crush   meal   
 
Polluted water form meal  
                                Use as material of defrozen protein 
 
 
2.  defrozen protein processing line 
                   filter residue     use to process meal  
                                                     filter residue  
Polluted water from meal    oil and water separator      filter liquid     biological enzyme   
 
 
                         Oil refine      refined oil  
Liquid condensation     defrozen protein      
 
 Polluted water  
 
3.  Dry seafood processing line 
Fresh fish     washing    classification    dry    dry seafood  
                         
        Polluted water  Solid pollution      use to process meal  
4.1.2.4 main product equipment 
main product equipment please refer to chart 4-7 
 
Chart 4-7 Equipment List 
  
No 
Equipment name  
type  
quantity
1 
Oil and water separator 
SAHO5036
1 set  
2 
beverage filter  
GL400 1set 
3 
roast machine  
 
 
1 set  
4 
crush machine  
  
1set 
5 
Filter and compress 
machine  
 
 
1 set  
6 
reaction axe 
  
1set 
 
4.1.2.5 pollution treatment and drainage situation 
1. polluted air: coming from washing procedure of  dry seafood processing line and 
Page  341
 
 26
                  , volume expect to reach 65000m3/a(21.7m3/d) . water quality index is : 
CODcr 1200 mg/l, BOD5 500 mg/l, SS 300 mg/l( refer to index of environment report on this 
company environment 
influence register ), pollution production volume is CODcr 7.8t/a, BOD5 3.25t/a ,SS 1.95t/a. 
Annual production capacity is 1700 t/a, and production factor of ocean microorganism  company    
is polluted water 3.8 M3 per ton production. 
polluted water pretreatment processing line as below : 
 
Polluted water     grille      condensation pool      sediment pool  
polluted water 
Pipeline to treatment center       chemical drug        mud 
 
pollluted water through pretreatment then drain to industrial park to further treated. 
2. polluted air : coming from boiler . Company plan to set up 1 set boiler with 2t/h, annual  
coal consumption volume expect to 500t/a. Company production capacity is 1700t/a, so 
production  
coal consumption rate is 0.31tcoal per ton production . air pollution from boiler is expected to  
4,900,000Nm3/a, SO2 volume 10T/a, dust volume 18.75t/a.  
through spiral treatment on pollute air from boiler, SO2 exhaust volume is 10t/a,dust 7.5t/a . 
3. solid pollution: coming from coal residue. base on 30% of total coal consumption volume,   
coal residue reach 150t, as material to construct road 
4. Noise : coming from air blower of boiler , source degree is 92dB(A) 
4.1.3 Xiangshan kehai biological compant 
4.1.3.1 Comapany Brief introduction  
Due to no existing shell procesing company nearby to compare, so this environment report  
base on data from Envrionment Influence register of Xiangshan Kehai Biological Comapany 
enacted 
by Xiangshan environment protection and inspection office in 2001 . This company plan to build 
at wet of industrial park. Company will occupy 7.95MU, 300 annual working day.  
This company will mainly handle shell process. 
4.1.3.2 Production plan 
Shell processing capacity 250t/a 
4.1.3.3 raw material consumption 
raw material consumption detail please refer to chart4-8 
chart 4-8 raw material consumption volume  
No. name 
consumption 
volume 
1 shrimp.crab 
7500t/a 
2 muriatic 
acid(30%) 
2000t/a 
3 slip 
alkali 
125t/a 
Page  342
 
 27
4 water 
10000m
3
/a 
5 coal 
100t/a 
6 power 
2500kw.h/a 
 
4.1.3.4 processing line  
 
            water             acid liquid        water           alkali  
                   filter residue      filter residue       filter residue 
Shelll     washing pool I       acid pool      washing pool II      Protein separate  
       
 Water    Polluted water                       Polluted water 
              Filter residue  
Washing pool III      filter       Dry       Shell protein  
 
Polluted water 
 
processing line display : 
1.  shell through washing pool , to acid pool at 6% density acid liquid for 15-20 hours , then 
filter. Filter liquid remain in acid pool , can be reused after regulation of acid density. Filter 
residue will to protein separate. 
2. 
NaOh density is at 30% in protein separate, get rid of filter residue after cooking . filter liquid 
can be reused after regulater alkali density. Filter residue will to washing pool III. 
3.  Use water to flush filter residue in washing pool III, solid material of filter screen is shell 
protein  
4.1.3.5 Main equipment  
Main equipment list refer to chart 4-9   
chrt 4-9 main equipment 
No. equipment 
name 
quantity 
1 boiler 
1 
pc 
2 oven 
1 
pc 
3 tension 
1 
pc 
4 
wash vat 
1 pc 
5 
acid vat 
1 pc 
6 alkali 
1 
pc 
7 
filtering netting 
1 pc 
  
 
4.1.3.6  Pollution treatment and drainage situation  
Page  343
 
 28
1.  Polluted water:  3 main cleaning water , as per chart 4-8,  Cleaning water volume 10,000 
m3/a , drainage volume calculated 90% of this figure, it will be 9000 m3/a( 30M3/d). 
Water quality of this plant is  CODcr 3000mg/l, BOD5 700mg/l, SS 600mg/l, Ph2-4. 
Polution volume is CODcr 27t/a ( 90kg/d) , BOD5 6.3t/a(21kg/d), Ss 5.4t/a( 18kg/d). 
Annual shelll protein production capacity is 250t/a, while polluted water volume 9000m3/a, so 
polluted water factor for shell proceesing plant is 36m3 per ton production. 
2.  Polluted air: Coming from boiler . This compnay plan to set up a 1T/h boiler, annual coal 
consumption volume  is 100t, while shell protein prodcution capacity is 250t/a, so unit 
production coal consumption is 0.4t/a. Polluted air from boiler is 970,000 m3/a, SO2 volume 
1.125t/a, dust volume 1.25t/a. Through spiral treatment to ,SO2 exhaust volume is 1.125t/a, 
dust exhaust volume 0.25t/a. 
3.  solid pollution : coming from coal residue of boiler. Calculated at 30% of total coal quantity, 
it will be 30t/a. this solid pollution will be used to construction road. 
4.   Noise : coming from air blower of boiler house, source degree is 92dB(A). 
 
4.1.4 
Ningbo Haishan Feida Meal Processing Co.,LTD 
4.1.4.1 Brief Introduction 
Ningbo Haishan Feida Meal Processing Co.,LTD is united at 1994 by Ningbo Haishan meal 
procesisng co.,Ltd and Ningbo Feida Meal processing Co.,LTd., located at east of industrial park 
, near Geshishan . Company occupied 9MU land, with 27 employee, 300 annual working day.  
Company main produce meal . 
4.1.4.2 Production plan 
In 2000 , meal annual production capacity is 800t/a. 
4.1.4.3 Raw material consumption 
Detail please refer to Chart 4-10 
chart 4-10 raw material consumption volume  
No. Name 
consumption 
volume 
1 
clearing-fish solid 
pollution 3000t/a 
2 Coal 
400t/a 
 
4.1.4.1 Processing line 
Solid pollution from fish classification through filter and dry procedure of meal processing 
equiment, it will turn into meal . 
3000t sold pollution will produce 1500t meal polluted water during filter procedure., and 700tons 
will be vapored during dry step, and finally produce 800t meal production.  
Detail as follows:  
 
Solid pollution     cooking      fatfree filter     dry     crush       meal  
Page  344
 
 29
  
                           Polluted water  
 
4.1.4.5 Main Equipment  
Main Equipment refer to chart 4-11 
 
chart 4-11 main manufacturing equipment 
 
No. equipment 
name quantity
1 
4 t boiler 
2 pc 
2 
a complete set of fishmeal equimpent 
2 set 
 
 
4.1.4.6  Pollution treatment and exhaust situation  
1.  Polluted water: mianly coming from fatfree filter step,in 2000, polluted water drainage 
volume is 1500m3/a. We entrust Xiangshan Environment protection and inspection bureau to 
inspect local water quality on June 12, 2001, result is CODcr 54400mg/l, Bod5 16300 MG/l, 
Ss 3000mg/l, Ph2.76. Polluted water direct drain into shipu harbor.  
In 2000, meal production reach 800t,  so polluted water factor is 1.875m3 per ton production. 
2. Polluted air: Coming from boiler . This compnay plan to set up a 2 set 4T/h boiler, one is for 
spare,  annual coal consumption volume  is 400t, while annual meal prodcution capacity is 
800t/a, so unit production coal consumption is 0.5t/a. Polluted air from boiler is 3,880,000 m3/a, 
SO2 volume 8t/a, dust volume 15t/a. Through spiral treatment to ,SO2 exhaust volume is 8 t/a, 
dust exhaust volume  15t/a. 
3.solid pollution : coming from coal residue of boiler. Calculated at 30% of total coal quantity, it 
will be 120t/a.  
5.  Noise :  Noise source  are  air blower of boiler  and equipment in workshop. Noise source 
degree please refer to chart 4-12. 
 
NO. 
Noise source  
 Source degree  ( dB(A)) 
1 Boiler 
 
92 
2 Processing 
equipmetn 
of 
meal  
80 
 
 
4.1.5 Polluted water factor and Coal consumption figure subtotal  
Through comparison investigation, polluted water factor , coal consumption figure please refer to  
Chart 4-13. 
 
No. Enterprises 
sort 
consumption coal 
index
(
t coal/t 
producing pollution 
index of 
p
olluted CODcr BOD
5
 SS 
Page  345
 
 30
product) water 
1 
seafoods 
processing 
\ 
11.25 
2133 1000 1400 
2 ocean 
biological 
0.3 
3.8 
1200 
500 
300 
3 Shell 
processing 
 
0.4 
36 
3000 
700 
600 
4 fishmeal 
0.5 
1.875 
54400 
16300 
3000 
 
4.2 Pollution Source Degree Analysisi 
4.2.1 Foreword  
 As per Chart 3-3,Industrial park cover 4 meal processing company, 2 new build shell processing 
company, 2 ocean biololgical proceesing company and 7 seafood processing company. This 15 
company will occupy 235.2MU . First stage of Industrial park will be 657 mu , including 328.5 
Mu industrial land, therefore, there will be 93.3 Mu idle land.  
4.2.2 Polluted water  
Polluted water in industrial park including livng polluted water, existing company produciton 
polluted water, new build company production polluted water, and futer company production 
polluted water.  
4.2.2.1 Living polluted water 
Total employee of this project will be 3300, average water consumtion volume at 100l. total 
living water demand is 330m3/d(99,000 m3/a). Drinage volume calculated at 80% of total water 
consumption  is 264m3/d( 7.92m3/a). Water quality as follows: CODcr 400mg/l, BOD5 200mg/l, 
SS 100mg/l. Pollution production volume is CODcr 105.6kg/d(31.68t/a), Bod5 52.8kg/d( 
15.84t/a),SS 26.4kg/d(7.92t/a). 
4.2.2.2 Existing Company Production polluted water Existing company has 4 meal processing 
company, meal capacity total 6700t/a. As per chart 4-15, pollution factor of meal processing 
company is 1.875m3/ per ton production, total pollution volume is 41.9m3/d(12560m3/a). 
Water quality as follows : CODcr54400mg/l, BOD5 16300mg/l, SS 300mg/l.Pollution 
production volume is Codcr 2279kg/d( 683t/a), Bod5 683kg/d(250t/a) , SS 126kg/d(38t/a). 
4.2.2.3 New build company production polluted water  
New build company can be devided into shell processing company, ocean biologicla processing 
company and seafood processing company.  
Shell processing compnay has 2 company, with 500t/a production capacity , as per pollution 
factor in chart 4-13, polluted water from shell processing compnay will be 18000m3/a( 60m3/d). 
Water quality as follows : CODcr 3000mg/l, Bod5 700mg/l, SS 600mg/l,while pollution 
production volume is CODcr15t/a( 50kg/d), Bod5 3.5t/a(12kg/d), SS 3t/a ( 10kg/d).  
Base on same principle, we can figure out detial figure for ocean processing company and  
seafood processing company, detail as per chart 4-14 
  chart 
4-14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  346
 
 31
quantity 
p
roducing 
capacity
quantity of 
polluted 
water CODcr BOD
5
 SS 
enterprises sort 
unit t/a 
10,000 
m
3
/d m
3
/d
mg/l kg/d mg/l kg/d mg/l
kg/d 
shell processing company 
2 
500 
1.8 
60 
3000 
180 
700 
42 
600 
36 
ocean 
microorganism 
2 
3000  1.14 38 1200 46 500 19 300 11 
seafoods processing 
7 
41500 
46.68
1556
2133 
3319
1000 
1556
1400
2178 
Total 11 
45000 
49.62
1654
2140 
3545
980 
1617
1350
2225 
 
 
As per chart,polluted water total volume for new build company is 1654m3/d, CODcr is 
3545kg/d(1060t/a), Bod5 1617kg/d(485t/a),SS 2225kg/d(668t/a). 
4.2.2.4 Future company production polluted water  
Future company enter industrial park will have similar situation with existing company, 
therefore, base on square comparison method to calculate pollution volume, please refer to chart 
4-14. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chart 4-14  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occupying 
area 
polluted 
water voluem
CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS 
  
(MU) (m
3
/d) mg/l 
kg/d 
mg/l 
kg/d 
mg/l
kg/d
existing enterprises 
19.1 
42 
3000 
180 
700 
42 
600 
36 
new enterprises 
216.1 
1654 
1200 
46 
500 
19 
300 
11 
Total 235.2 
1696 
2133 
3319 
1000 
1556 
1400
2178
Future enterprises 
93.3 
673 
2140 
3545 
980 
1617 
1350
2225
 
 
As per chart 4-14, Expected pollution volume is 673m3( 201,900m3/a), polluted water quality 
CODcr 3460mg/l,BOD5 1360 mg/l, SS1390 mg/l. Production pollution volume CODcr 
2308kg/d(692t/a), BOD5 915kg/d(275t/a), Ss 935 kg/d(281t/a). 
 
4.2.2.5 Production polluted water  
Page  347
 
 32
Polluted water volume as per chart 3-15 . Polluted water total volume is 2633m3/d(789900m3/a), 
pollution volume Codcr 8244kg/d(2473t/a), Bod5 3270kg/d(981t./a) ,SS 3312kg/d ( 994t/a). 
chart 4-15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
quantity of polluted 
water CODcr 
BOD
5
 SS 
  
m
3
/d 10,000 
m
3
/d
mg/l kg/d mg/l kg/d mg/l
kg/d
living polluted water 
264 
7.92 
400 
106 
200 
53 
100 
26 
forthcoming enterprises 
polluted water 
42 
1.26 
54400
2285  16300 
685 
3000
126 
new enterprises polluted water 
1654 
49.62 
2140 
3545 
980 
1617 
1350
2225
new enterprises entering park 
polluted water 
673 
20.19 
3430 
2308 
1360 
915 
1390
935 
Total 2633
78.99
3130
8244
1240 
3270 
1260
3312
 
 
Company in industrial park pretreated polluted water then drain to treatment plant, meet standard 
of Shipu harbor. According to relevant environment protection rule, drain water quality    carry 
on II standard , polluted water pollution volume : total polluted water volume  
2633m3/d(78990m3/a), pollution exhaust volume CODcr 395kg/d(118t/a), BOD579kg/d(24t/a), 
SS 395kg/d(118t/a). 
 
3.5.3 
Polluted air  
Polluted air is coming from boiler. 
Polluted air is mainly produced by shell processing company, ocean biological company, and 
meal processing company. To reduce effect to surrounding, this project will build hot and steam 
supply center ( detail location please refer to attached drawing 3 ). Original company boiler shall 
be knocked down. Coal consumption of each company please refer to chart 4-16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chart 
4-16 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
No. enterprises 
sort 
unit products of 
coal comsumption 
index 
product 
capacity 
coal 
consumption 
needing air 
volume 
Page  348
 
 33
  
(t coal /t products)
(t/a) 
(t) 
(t/h) 
1 ocean 
microorganism 
0.3
3000 
900 
2.3 
2  
 
0.4
500 
200 
0.5 
3 fishmeal 
enterprises 
0.5
6700 
3350 
8.4 
new enterprisin entering park 
1750 
4.4 
total 6200 
15.6 
 
As per chart 4-16, steam this project need is 15.6t/h, so it shall equip with 1set10t/h boiler, 2set  
6t/h boiler. According to relevant regulation of  2
nd
  area II time  Polluted air exhaust standard  
(GWPB3-1999) , So2 density is 900mg/m3. exhaust volume 54t/a, TSP density  200mg/m3, 
exhaust volume `12t/a. 
3.5.4 Solid pollution 
 
 Solid pollution  of this project including mud , coal residue etc. 
Hot and steam supply center annual coal consumption volume is 6200t, according to experience, 
there will be 30% coal residue of total coal consumption. So we can figure out that annual coal 
residue is 1860t/a. 
Living garbage of each empolyee calculated at 0.2 kg/d, total garbage volume will be  
0.2 X 3300 X 365 = 240t/a. 
Design daily polluted water treat capacity of treatment center  is 3000t/d ,calculated at 5kg mud /t 
polluted water, it will bring total 4500t/a mud. 
Solid pollution of this project  please refer to chart 4-17.  
Total solid pollution will be 6600t/a,coal residue can be reused.  
No. 
Type 
Production volume(t/a) 
Exhaust volume(t/a) 
1 Coal 
residue 
1860 
1860 
2 Living 
garbage 240 
240 
3 Mud 
4500 
4500 
Total Volume  
6600 
6600 
 
3.5.3 Noise  
Noise source  degree refer to chart 4-18. 
chart 4-18  
 
 
No. name 
noise resources degree(dB(A)) 
  
1  Ammonia machine 
82 
2   
Ammonia pump  
90 
3   
Power supply machine  
100 
4   
Cooling  tank  
85 
5  Boiler  
92 
6 
 
Whole line equipment for 
meal  
80 
Page  349
 
 34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3 Pollution Exhaust list  
Pollution exhaust list please refer to chart 4-19. 
chart 4-19  
 
 
 
 
project drainage 
volume 
polluted water volume  
 
789900 m
3
/a(2633m
3
/d) 
CODcr 118t/a(3.95t/d) 
BOD
5
 24t/a(0.08t/d) 
polluted 
water 
SS 118t/a(3.95t/d) 
boiler polluted air 
 
 
60,140,000 m
3
/a(20,050,000m
3
/d) 
SO
2
 54t/a(0.18t/d) 
polluted air 
TSP 12t/a(0.04t/d) 
coal residue 
1860t/a(6.20t/d) 
daily garbage 
240t/a(0.80t/d) 
solid 
pollution 
polluted mud 
4500t/a(30.00t/d) 
noise 
details see 4-18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  350
 
 35
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P
art 5 Evluation on Water Quality Current Situation and Influence  
5.1 Water quality current situation  
5.1.1 Current Inspection  
To collect information of water quality of shipu harbor, our office entrust Xiangshan  
Environment Protection office to Inspect . 
Inspection location : 1500m vertical away from drainage point , detail location please refer to 
Attached drawing 6. 
Inspection project: water temperature, Ph value, CODmn, DO, Nh3-N, Chrome. 
Inspection tiem: June 12 ,2001 and June 21 2001, rise tide and ebb tide each time . 
Sample and inspection analyze method. as per relevant stipulaiton of Water and poluted water 
inspection analyze method ( third edition) enacted by National Environment Protection Bureau. 
Inspection Bureau . Refer to chart 5-1. 
 
 
Chart5-1 Water Environment Current Situation    
 
Period  
Sample time 
Ocean water 
Ph value  
Temperature DO 
CODmn 
NH3-N 
chrome  
6.12 7.8924\1f 
8.93
1.9 
0.47<0.004 
low & ebb 
tide  
p
roportion value 
0.494- 
0.095
0.38 
0.94<0.008 
6.12 7.8924\1f 
8.98
1.86 
0.45<0.004 
low & rise 
tide  
p
roportion value 
0.494- 
0.104
0.372 
0.90.008 
6.12 7.9125\1f 
9.13
1.72 
0.51<0.004 
high & ebb 
tide  
p
roportion value 
0.506- 
0.164
0.344 
1.020.008 
Page  351
 
 36
6.12 7.9124\1f 
9.04
1.7 
0.5<0.004 
high & ebb 
tide  
p
roportion value 
0.506- 
0.115
0.34 
10.008 
largest proportion value  
0.506- 
0.164
0.38 
1.020.008 
 
 
5.1.2 Current situation  
Evaluation standard : According to [2001] no.242 Notice on Zhejiang Coastal  Function Area 
Regulation   issued by Zhejiang development and pland committee and Zhejiang province 
Enivronment Protection Bureau , Shipu is belong to 4 grade function area, so Evaluation water 
quality of Shipu harbor shall base on  4 grade standard of Ocean Water Quality Standard.  
Standard please refer to Chart 1-1. 
 Evaluation method : according to method recommended from Environment Influence Evaluation 
Techinical Guidance- floor water environment ( HJ/T2.3-93) and1999 National Environment 
Standard Testbook,  which will evlauated each pollution source respectively . If  pamater of 
water quality over 1, it is mean that water quality  is beyong standard, can’t meet requirement for 
functional area.  
Evaluation Result and debate:  Evaluation result refer to chart 5-1. As per chart, dwater qua 
the water qualiy of Shipu harbor near to the drainage point, the index of PH value, CODmn, 
DO, tempreature and total chrome are up to par, except for the NH3-N. And the PH max. is 
0.506, CODmn is 0.380, DO is 0.164, total chrome is 0.008, NH3-N ID 1.02. The overrun of 
NH3-N is general phenomenon of the sea water quality in Shipu harbor meatus, due to living 
polluted water direct drain to shipu harbor  and industrial polluted water  drained beyong 
standardand .For the structure of Shipu town is focus on seafood processing industrial, the 
chroma of NH3-N are upper. Current inspection result indicated that  water quality of Shipu 
harbor can’t meet the requirement of 4th kind area ocean water quality GB3097-1997. 
5.2 Water Environment influence prediction and Evaluation  
5.2.1 Predict mode  
According to formula,  
 
Cr=Ch + ( Cp-Ch)[1-exp(-
\02N
Qp/dMvR)] 
Cr----average dentsity of pollution of radian, mg/l 
Ch---- Current density of ocean pollution, mg/l. 
Cp---- Drainage density of pollution , mg/l 
Qp---- Drainage density of polluted water, m3/s 
\02N
----Mixed angel , radian  
d---- mixed depth, m 
Mv---- mixed speed, m/s 
r---- distance between inspection site and drainage point,m 
 
Page  352
 
 37
5.2.2 Relevant parameter   
1) Hydrology  
According to coastal form and current situation : 
\02N
=  , d=2, Mv=0.005m/s. 
2)  Current density of ocean pollution  
Take  CODmn as predicted paramter, CODmn current figure is 1.9mg/l when ebb tide . 
3)  Pollution source degree 
As analysis by this project, pollution drainage volume is 2633m3/d(0.0305m3/s).  
Polluted water shall drain within standard. So normal drained Cp(Cr) 150mg/l, accident drainage 
Cp( Cr) will be up to 3130mg/l. Due to ocean water quality adopt CODmn to measure , so it shall 
turn to CODmn to be calculated. 
If CODcr: CODmn=3,then normal drained Cp(mn) will be 50mg.l, accident drainage Cp(mn) 
will be 1040mg/l. 
5.2.3  Calculation result  
Calculation result detail please refer to chart 5-2. 
 
Chart 5-2 Water Environment Current Inspection 
Result  
 
 
 
Distance to Drainage point 
50 
100
200
300
400
600
1000 
1500 
standard drainage  
2.822 2.363 2.132 2.055 2.016 1.978
1.947  1.931 
CODmn 
mg/l 
accident drainage  
22.81 
12.4 7.164 5.412 4.536 3.657
2.955  2.572 
As per chart 5-2, when drainage meet standard, CODmn density of ocean water quality shall 
meet IV standard of Ocean Water Standard ( GB3097-1997). When accident  drainage,  CODmn 
density 300m away from drainage point will over the standard (GB3097-1997). 
5.2.4 Prediction and  Result analysis  
When low tide and polluted water in this project drain under stardard,CODmn density at 50m far 
away from drainage point will be 2.822mg/l, under standard limitation 56.44%, in line with 
Ocean Water Quality ( GB3097-1997).  
If accident drainage , CODmn density at 300m within drainage point will be IV grade of Ocean 
Water Quality ( GB3095-1997), effect surrounding . 
Therefore, it must eliminate possibility of accident  drainage. 
Feed water point of farming base is rivers. Polluted water will  be drainaged into shipu harbor 
instead of rivers, so it will not effect water quality of farming base . 
5.3 Summary  
5.3.1 Water quality current situation  
Water quality of drainage point of Shipu harbor except NH3-N, PH value , CODmn, Do , 
temperature and chrome all meet standarde . The overrun of NH3-N is general phenomenon of 
the sea water quality in Shipu harbor meatus, due to living polluted water direct drain to shipu 
harbor  and industrial polluted water  drained beyong standardand .For the structure of Shipu 
town is focus on seafood processing industrial, the chroma of NH3-N are upper. Current 
Page  353
 
 38
inspection result indicated that  water quality of Shipu harbor can’t meet the requirement of 4th 
kind area ocean water quality GB3097-1997. 
5.3.2 Water Quality Evaluation  
When low tide and polluted water in this project drain under stardard,CODmn density at 50m far 
away from drainage point will be 2.822mg/l, under standard limitation 56.44%, in line with 
Ocean Water Quality ( GB3097-1997).  
If accident drainage , CODmn density at 300m within drainage point will be IV grade of Ocean 
Water Quality ( GB3095-1997), effect surrounding . 
Therefore, it must eliminate possibility of accident  drainage. 
Feed water point of farming base is rivers. Polluted water will  be drainaged into shipu harbor 
instead of rivers, so it will not effect water quality of farming base . 
 
Part 6 Current Air Condition and Influence Evaluation   
6.1  Polluted  Air Character  
6.1.1 Average speed, trend to wind direction frequency .  
According to data supplied by weather station , average wind speed , wind direction frequency of 
four seasons please refer to chart 6-1& 6-2. Also attached drawing 5.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 6-1 Average wind speed of Shipu  
Wind 
direction  
Jan. April July  October 
Whole 
year 
N 6.7 
6.4 
4.5 
6.4 
6.5 
NNE 6.7 
6.1 
6.4 7.1 
6.5 
NE 5.5 
5.1 
5.5 6.9 
5.8 
ENE 5.2 
4.5 
5.3 5.6 
5.3 
E 2.3 
3.3 
4.6 
4.7 
4.1 
ESE 3.4 
3.3 
5.2 3.1 
4.1 
SE 4 
4.3 
4.9 4 
4.6 
SSE 2.6 
4.9 
6.2 3.7 
5 
S 2 
4.3 
7.6 
3.7 
4.6 
SSW 3.8 
6.5 
7.1 3.6 
6.4 
SW 4.1 
6.2 
5  4.7 
5.8 
WSW 4 5.2 
4.3 3.1 
4.4 
W 3 
4.4 
5.5 
2.2 
3.5 
WNW 4.3 4.6 5.5  5.2 
4.1 
Page  354
 
 39
NW 6.1 
6 5.2 5.4 
5.5 
NNW 7.2 
6.8 11  6.3 
6.8 
all direcion   5.7 
5.2 
5.3 
5.8 
5.5 
 
 
Chart 6-2 Wind frequency of Shipu  
Wind 
direction  
Jan. April July October 
Whole 
year 
N 25 
10 
1 28 
16 
NNE 10 7 1 
8 
7 
NE 9 
15 
4 16 
12 
ENE 5 
11 
6 13 
10 
E 1 
3 
2 2 
3 
ESE 0.01 2 2 
1 
1 
SE 1 
6 
6 2 
4 
SSE 0.01 3 4 
1 
2 
S 0.1 
3 
5 1 
2 
SSW 0 4 
16 1 
5 
SW 9 
17 
41 4 
15 
WSW 7 8 7 
3 
6 
W 3 
1 
1 1 
1 
WNW 1 
0.01 
0.01 
0.01 
1 
NW 8 
2 
0.01 4 
3 
NNW 17 4 
0.01 11 
8 
C 3 
0.01 
4 4 
5 
 
 
As per chart 6-1 & 6-2, main wind direction of shipu is N direction, frequency at 16%, Sw 
direction, frequency at 15%; 2
nd
 main wind direction is NE, at 12%, ENE wind direction, at 
10%.  Quiet wind  frequency is at 5%, annual average speed at 5.5m/s. 
6.1.2 Polluted parameter 
polluted parameter give full consideration to wind direction and speed, which can full present 
pollution degree, formula of polluted parameter as below:  
 
 
     
 Fi /Ui
 
Pi=    16             x 100% 
 ™
 Fi/Ui
 
            i=1 
Page  355
 
 40
 
Pi , Fi, Ui  present I wind direciton polluted parameter, wind direction frequencey, average speed 
( m/s) 
 
Chart 6-3 give all figures of annual pollution , including Jan, April, July, and October. 
As per chart 6-3, sevious polluted parameter whole year is SW wind. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 6-3 Wind direciton polution parameter 
Wind 
direction  
Jan. April July October Whole 
year 
N 
23.9 8.48 1.41 
25.8 
14.1 
NNE 
9.43 6.26 1.03 
6.66 
6.19 
NE 10.51 
15.99 
4.68 
13.66  11.87 
ENE 
6.16 13.28 7.25 
13.66 
10.72 
E 
2.76 4.95 2.76 
2.53 
4.19 
ESE 
0.01 3.32 2.44 
1.88 
1.38 
SE 1.6 
7.62 
7.81 
2.94  4.99 
SSE 
0.01 3.32 4.17 
1.59 
2.29 
S 
0.01 3.81 4.23 
1.59 
2.47 
SSW 1.67 
3.37 
14.42 
1.65 
6.25 
SW 
14.11 14.91 38.17 
5.01 
14.85 
WSW 
11.23 8.38 10.45 
5.71 
7.8 
W 
6.41 1.25 1.15 
2.65 
1.66 
WNW 
1.48 1.01 0.01 
0.01 
1.38 
NW 8.4 
1.8 
0.01 
4.36 
3.15 
NNW 
2.31 3.25 0.01 
10.3 
6.71 
 
6.1.3 Air stability degree  
Due to unable to collect air stability degree of shipu town, so this evaluation is based on data of 
near place ( ningbo downtown ) . 
Air stability degree indicate polluted air expand capacity within air .Air stability degree detail 
please refer to chart 6-4.  
Chart 6-4Air stability frequency of ningbo downtown (%) 
Stability 
 A B C D E F 
Jan. 
0  1.78 13.14 65.17 16.8 3.02 
Page  356
 
 41
April 
 
1  5.03 14.21 59.2 16.04 4.52 
July 
3.08 18.02 12.5 43.18 19.81 3.41 
October 
 
0.97 16.48 17.69 37.96 17.45 9.45 
Whole 
year 
  1.26 10.33 14.36 51.38 17.58 5.1 
 
Whole year shipu town is D type, with 51.38 % frequency, E type sencond it , 17.58%, A is 
minus , 1.26%. 
 
6.2 Current situation and Evaluation 
6.2.1 Air condition current inspection  
To get information of surrounding air condition, we entrust Xiangshan Environment and 
Inspection office to inspect .  
Inspection location: near road junction of  planned Garden road , detail please refer to attached 
drawing 3.  
Inspect project : SO2, NO2, TSP. 
Inspection time and frequency : From June 20, 2001 to June 22, 2001 at time 7:00, 14:00, 19:00.. 
Inspect method : see chart 6-5. 
 
 
Chart 6-5 
Inspection project  
 Inspection Method  
TSP 
weight measurement (GB/T15432) 
SO2 
Spectro method by chemical material ( GB/T15262-94) 
NO2 
Saltzman method (gb/t15436-95) 
 
Insepction result : see chart 6-6 and summary please refer to chatt 6-7. 
Chart 6-6 SO2 ,NO2,TSP inspection result ( Unit : mg/m3) 
 
 
Time  
June 20 
June 21 
June 22 
7:00-7:30 0.002
0.003
0.003
14:00-14:30 0.007
0.006
0.005
19:00-19:30 0.003
0.003
0.004
SO2 
Daily average  
0.004
0.004
0.004
NO2 
7:00-7:30 0.004
0.002
0.002
  
14:00-14:30 0.01
0.002
0.004
  
19:00-19:30 0.007
0.002
0.002
  
Daily average  
0.007
0.002
0.003
TSP Daily 
average 
 
0.16
0.021
0.054
 
Chart 6-7 Air inspection result and summary ( June 20,2001-June22,2001) 
Page  357
 
 42
Project  
density range  
Daily average 
density range  
Daily largest 
proportion value 
one time largest 
proportion value 
SO2 0.002-0.007 
0.004 
0.026 
0.014 
NO2 0.002-0.010 0.002-0.007 
0.058 
0.042 
TSP - 0.021-0.160 0.533 
/ 
 
6.2.2 Air environment current situation  
Evaluation standard: please refer to chart 1-1 
Evaluation method: according to Environment influence evaluation technical guidance –air 
condition ( HJ/t2.2-93), evaluated each pollution factor .  
Evaluation result : according to chart 6-6 and chart 6-7, that the one time and day value of SO2, 
NO2, TSP are up to standard, and the maximum daily value of SO2 is 0.026, one time value is 
0.014, maximum daily value of NO2  is 0.058, one time value is 0.042, the maximal daily value 
of TSP is 0.533. So air quality of Shipu is sound, in line with 2nd grade Air quality standard  
(GB3095-1996). 6.3 influece predict and evaluaiton  
6.3.1 Predict mode  
Choose source expand mode to calculate  
 
         Q      
            Y
2  
             
H
2
e  
 
C= 
\02e
µ
\02[
y
\02[
Z      Exp ( - 2
\02[
2
y  
) exp(- 2
\02[
2
z    
 ) 
 
\02[
y =
\02ffi
1
X
a1         
\02[
Z=
\02ffi
2
X
a2
 
He =H + 
\01û
H 
Wind direction of air exhaust point  is largest floor density Cm( mg/m3) and distance to air 
exhaust point Xm( m) :  
 
       2Q   
 
Cm =   e
\02e
UH
2
e
P
1 
 
(
 He 
 
)
 1/2
\01.
2
      
(
  
\01.
1
 
) 
–1/2
\01.
2
  
Xm=   
\02ffi
2                                 
\01.
2
 
 
 6.3.2    Relevant Parameter  
1.  predicted project and sensetive point 
predicted project : SO2, TSP 
sensetive point: According to inevestigation of surrounding , sensetive point of surrounding refer 
to chart 6-8.  
Page  358
 
 43
 
Chart 6-8 Sensetive point of air pollution  
No. 
Sensetive point  
Influence wind 
direction  
distance to hot and 
steam supply 
center (m) 
1 Dongbian 
village 
SW 
700 
2 Beishan 
village  WSW 
800 
3 
Center village  
SSW 
600 
4 
Xibian village  
SSE 
600 
5 Xiatang 
village 
E 
500 
6 
A resident area  
S 
400 
7 
Shipu town  
WSW 
1500 
 
2.  Weather condition  
Wind direction : from total layout drawing, wind direction to each sensetive point as follows :  
 S direction to Dongbian village, SSE direction to Center village, SSW to Beishan village, SE 
direction to Xibian village, E direction to Xiatang village, S directio to A resident area, SW to 
Shipu town.  
Air stability degree: D grade , frequency 51.38%. so air stability of this project is stable. 
 Wind speed : average speed of whole year, exhaust point will calculated as per below formula: 
 
        
µ
2
 =µ
1
 ( Z2/Z1)
P 
 
µ
1
,µ
2  
-------average speed at 10 high from Z1(m ) and Z2(m), m/s 
P-------- speed height index, detail figure refer to chart 6-9. 
Chart 6-9  P value under different air stability  
 
Area        Stability 
 
A B C D  E.F 
city 0.1 
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3 
rural area 
0.07 
0.07
0.1
0.15
0.25 
 
 
Chimney height is 45m, so speed at chimney can be calculated . Detail data please refer to chart 
6-10. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  359
 
 44
 
 
Chart 6-10 wind direction and speed at 
chimney  
No. 
wind 
direction 
speed at 
10m  
speed at 
drainage 
point 
(m/s) 
1 SW 
5.8 
7.27
2 WSW 
6 7.52
3 SSW 
6.7 8.4
4 SSE 
5 
6.27
5 E 
4.1 
5.14
6 S 
4.6 
5.76
 
 
Expand parameter please check HJ/T2.2-93, source from industrial park and town, shall first 
upgrade air stability data then fix expand parameter . A , B grade will not be upgrade, then C 
grade shall upgrade to B grade, D.E.F shall upgrade 1 grade to air unstability. Detail refer to chart 
5-11. 
Chart 5-11 Expand parameter ( sample time 0.5h) 
 
Stability  
distance  
 
\01.
1
 
\02ffi
1
  
\01.
1
 
\02ffi
1
 
0-1000 0.92428 
0.177154
C 
>1000 0.88516 
0.232123
0.917595
0.106803
 
Chart 5-12 Air raise degree of sensetive point 
No. 
Wind direction of 
Sensetive point  
Raise 
height  
Chimney  
height (m) 
1 SW 2.95 
47.95 
2 WSW 2.86 47.86 
3 SSW 2.56 
47.56 
4 SSE 3.43 
48.43 
5 E 4.18 
49.18 
6 S 3.73 
48.73 
 
3.  pollution source degree 
Page  360
 
 45
According to project analysis, total coal consumption is 6200t, air exhaust volume 60,140,000 
m3/a(6.961m3/s). SO2 exhaust density 900mg/m3,exhaust volume 6265mg/s; TSP exhaust 
density 200mg/m3, exhaust volume 1392mg/s. Chimney height is 45m. Polluted air meet 2
nd
 
grade II time standard of Polluted Air from Boiler Exhaust Standard ( GWPB3-1999). 
4.  Predict result and analysis  
Largest floor density. Largest floor density under different wind direction and calcualtion result 
of distance appeared.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 6-13 Floor density land distance  
Wind 
direction Pollution 
 
Largest 
floor 
density 
Cm(mg/m3)
Distance 
appear largest 
density  
SO2 0.05075 
SW  
TSP 0.01128 
531.49 
SO2 0.04924 
WSW 
TSP 0.0109 
530.4 
SO2 0.04465 
SSW 
TSP 0.00992 
526.78 
SO2 0.05768 
SSE 
TSP 0.01281 
537.29 
SO2 0.06821 
E 
TSP 0.01516 
546.37 
SO2 0.06201 
S 
TSP 0.01378 
540.92 
 
Chart 6-14 D grade stability air polluted density of sensetive point  
floor density (mg/m3) 
No. 
Sensetive point  
distance to 
chimney ( m) 
Influence 
wind 
direction  
SO2 TSP 
1 Dongbian 
village 
700 
SW 
0.0455
0.01011 
2 Beishan 
village 
800 
WSW 
0.03931
0.00873 
3 
Center village  
600 
SSW 
0.04348
0.00966 
4 
Xibian village  
600 
SSE 
0.05657
0.01257 
5 Xiatang 
village 
500 
E 
0.06727
0.01495 
Page  361
 
 46
6 
A resident area  
400 
S 
0.05144
0.01143 
7 
Shipu town  
1500 
WSW 
0.01733
0.00385 
 
6.3.3 Unfavorable smell influence to surrounding  
each company of this project has unfavorable fish smell, especially for meal processing company 
in summer. So , comparison investigation must be handled to meal processing solid pollution 
stock. Detail please refer to chart 6-15. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 6-15 Distance influence to unfavorable smell 
No. 
Distance to stock 
place  
unfavorable smell  
1 5 
strong 
smell 
2 10 
strong 
smell 
3 
20 
comparative  strong smell
4 
30 
comparative  strong smell
5 
40 
comparative  strong smell
6 50 
obvious 
smell 
7 60 
obvious 
smell 
8 70 
obvious 
smell 
9 80 
slight 
smell 
10 90 
slight 
smell 
11 100 
slight 
smell 
12 
120 
basically no smell 
 
unfavorable smell of meal processing plant have no influence to area 120m away from plant. 
Shipu fatfree meal processing plant is 200m away from closed Dongbian village , 150m away 
Page  362
 
 47
from A resident area, so meal processing plant will few influence to surrounding.Given  the 
situation that  A resident area  is only 50m away from Nangang road , it is suggested that meal 
processing company shall not allow to establish at 70m away fron Nangang road in future plan to 
ensure 120m distance. Unfavorable smell  have few influence to surrounding . 
6.4 summary  
6.4.1 Air Environment current situation  
According to air environment current situation , So2, No2, TSP all meet standard during 
inspection day from June 20,2001 to June 22, 2001. So air environment of shipu is good,  
satisifed II standard of Air Environment Standard ( GB3095-1996). 
6.4.2 Influence Prediciton and conclusion  
Main air polluted source is boiler. According to influence prediction, polluted air from boiler 
exhaust under standard will not effect surrounding village.  
Unfavorable smell of this project , through 120m distance, it will not effect surrounding nearby 
village and A resident area.  
Above all, Air pollution of this project will not effect nearby resident area and village.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 7 Evaluation on  Noise and Solid Pollution Influence 
7.1 Noise  
7.1.1 surrounding  
Page  363
 
 48
 This project located at south-west of shipu town, middle of trade zone oriented to Taiwannese, 
.east to Geshishan hill, south to shipu harbor, west to xiatang village, north to Xibian village, 
Center village, Dongbian village and Beishan village. This project cover west Xingang road, 
Junming road, Xixia road, and Nangang road. Garden road devided this project into east block 
and  west block. Detail please refer to attached drawing 3.  
7.1.2  Noise current situation and evluation  
7.1.2.1  Noise current situation  
Inspection point : to make clear noise current situation at surrounding of this project, our office 
entrust Xiangshan environment protection and inspection office to test normal noise. Inspeciton 
point detail please refer to attached drawing 3.  
Inspection method: As per City Noise Measurement Method ( GB/T14623-93) and Environment 
Inspection Technical Regulation ( noise part) 
Inspection time and frequencey :  June 16,2001 ,  day and night each time. 
Inspeciton result : Noise inspection result detail please refer to Chart 7-1. 
7.1.2.2 Evaluation on current noise situation  
Evaluation standard and method:  noise standard of this project carry on III type of Noise 
Standard of Industrial company( GB/T12348-90) , i.e. day at 65dB(A) , night at 50dB(A).  
Chart 7-1 Noise current situation ad Evaluation list ( unti : dB( A) 
 
Day  
 
 
Night 
  
Inspection 
site  
Time 
Inspection 
figure 
Standard 
figure  
beyong 
standard
Time 
Inspection 
figure 
Standard 
figure  
beyong 
standard
1# 10:00 59.2  65 
0 22:12 
45.7  55 
0 
2# 10:37 63.9  65 
0 22:28 
42.7  55 
0 
3# 11:10 51.1  65 
0 22:46 
53.7  55 
0 
4# 11:24 52.6  65 
0 22:52 47 
55 
0 
5# 11:01 52.3  65 
0 22:40 
43.4  55 
0 
6# 10;15 59.3  65 
0 22:27 
41.6  55 
0 
7# 10:45 52.8  65 
0 22:34 46 
55 
0 
 
 
Evaluation conclusion: Evaluation conclusion please refer to chart 7-1.Day and night noise of 
inspeciton point of this project  meet standard. 
7.1.3 Noise Influence Analysis  
After completion of this project, predict influence of  noise from each company  to surrounding 
residents shall base on comparison company noise influence to surrounding residents.  
So we entrust Xiangshan environment proteciton and inspection office to measure plant noise of 
Ningbo Haishan Feida meal  aquatic industrial co.,ltd and Ningbo Jinhai Aquatic Food Co.,Ltd. 
Detail figure please refer to chart 7-2. 
Page  364
 
 49
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 7-2 Noise inspeciton figure  with plant edge  
Day Night 
Plant name 
Inspection Site  
inspeciton 
figure  
standard 
figure  
inspeciton 
figure  
standard 
figure  
East edge  
59.7 
65 
51.2 
55 
South edge 
55.6 
65 
50.8 
55 
West edge  
54.4 
65 
50.6 
55 
Ningbo 
Haishan 
Feida Meal 
Processing 
Co.,LTD  
North edge 
57.8 
65 
51 
55 
East edge  
55.2 
65 
51.1 
55 
South edge 
54.7 
65 
53.1 
55 
West edge  
54.2 
65 
50.1 
55 
Ningbo 
Jinhai 
Aquatic 
Food Co.,Ltd 
North edge 
54.9 
65 
49.8 
55 
 
For noise source degree of each company are close, noise at plant edge is close accordingly. 
Chart 7-2 show that  loudest day noise at plant edge is 59.9dB(A), while loudest night noise at 
53.1dB(A). Company north edge is more than 60m away from A resident area , through middle 
30m width green belt ,day noise to A resident area will at 52 dB(A) while night at 45dB(A). 
Normal day noise is at 52.3dB(A), normal night noise 43.4dB(A), through increasing, day at 
60.1dB(A), night at 52.8dB(A), in line with III grade of City Noise Standard ( GB3096-93)  . 
So noise will not effect nearby sensitive point. 
7.2  Evaluation on Solid Pollution Influence 
After completion of this project, Solid pollution including coal residue, living rubbish and mud 
from water treatment . Detial figure  and treatment please refer to chart 7-3. 
Solid pollution will not effect surrounding through treatment show in chart 7-3.  
Chart 7-3 Solid Pollution Treatment  
Solid Pollution Name Quantity ( t/a)
Treatment  
Coal residue  
1860 
to construct road and make brick 
Living garbage 
240 
sent to rubbish treatment center of shipu 
mud 
4500 
sent to rubbish treatment center of shipu 
        
Page  365
 
 50
 
Part 8 Zoology Environment and Environment Influence Analysis 
during Construction Period 
8.1 Zoology Envrionment influence analysis 
This project will occupy 43.8 ha( 0.44km2) land to build workshop, warehouse, office and public 
service room total 38.08 ha .  
New acquisition land is heath without large area vegetation. 
Benefit factor to zoology environment after completion of this project: 
1.Increase land resource utilization rate. Use block land to develop industrial park  is best mode 
to make best use of land , gather original scattered company at industrial park , improve land 
utilization rate and protect farming land. 
2. Control environment pollution and improve environment quality. Company scattered before 
they enter industrial park , so three pollution treatment of each company are different, some are 
qualified  to exhaust meet standard , while some exhaust direct to outside without any treatment, 
which do worse to environment. 
After those company move into industrial park, treatment center will be built and unite all 
pollution from each company and handle together, which will efficent control toal exhaust 
volume of pollution and improve local environment . 
Negative part to zoology environmetn after completion of this project : 
1. Influence to vegetation. After completion of this project, original farming land will turn into  
industrial park ;  farming land will be replace by concrete structure and most of original 
vegetation will disappear. During construciton period, Geshishan hill will be exploded to pave 
road name west Xinggang road, which will lead to vegetaiton of Geshishan hill disappera. This 
will effect air condition of shipu town , so it shall plant more trees to protect air environment of 
shipu. 
2. Influence to environment of nearby area.After completion of this project, with the increase of 
population ad normal production, water and energy consumption will increase accordingly. At 
the same time, Polluted water, polluted air and solid pollution  caused by production will also 
increased.  
If accident occur at that time or umproper treatment, or pollution accident exhaust, it will bring 
certian pollution to surrounding  and influence shall not be neglect.  
3. Influence to maintain earth . During construction of this project, it involve in lots of works as  
dig earth , fill earth and pile earth, and even more explode Geshishan hill to pave road for 
convenient traffic, if handle unproperly, it will not only destroy vegetation and zoology in this 
area,cause earth lapse  , also destroy original natural landscape. 
Page  366
 
 51
In a word, construction of this project will inevitable change and influence to zoology 
environment and land utilization type. So during construction of this project, it must under the 
guidance of natural rule , well coordinate relationship between project and environment . Method 
adopted as follow; 
1. increse land scaping wihtin plant. land scaping rate shall over 30%, and uncovered earth shall 
not be found . 
2. use turf to protect embankment ; plant turf and low green bush in barrier belt between left and 
right road, such as pine and cypress. 
3. Land scaping tree are combined by grass and       ,   
4. Earth source place shall carry on environment protection method. 
5. Strengthen management during cosntruction, reduce earth lapse during construction period. 
6. Exploded place of Geshishan hill shall be covered by block stone and place water ditch on the 
slope to guide water from top to the floor ,to avoid breakdown caused by erosion. 
 
8.2 Environment influence analysis during construction period 
8.2.1 Dust  
During whole construction period, procedure to cause dust including  earth dig, and refill , road 
construction, material transportation and unload, kneadig  etc, if it happen to drought and no 
rainfall with large wind, dust in construction place will be more sevious.  
Dust caused by transportation truck account for 60% of total volume. Dust volume on road is 
related to factor as speed of truck, weight , connection area of tire to floor, comparative humidity 
etc.  
To effecient control dust volume caused by truck, method as sealed transportation, speed 
limitation, maintain clean road, and spray water ( 4-5 times each day ) etc. shall be adopted. 
 Dust in construction place may from exposed pile and  site by wind . Reduce material exposure 
and ensure certain moisture is good method to deal with this kind of dust. 
Attention shall be laid on dust protection issue during construction period. Necessary protection 
method shall be raised to  reduce dust influence to surrounding. 
8.2.2 Noise 
Noise during construction can be devided into machine noise, processing noise, and noise from 
truck .Machine noise coming from operation machines such as exvacation machine,    and 
concrete kneading machine, elevator etc, are belong to point noise source; Processing noise are 
including  knock noise, yelp sound, are belong to temperary noise ; Noise from truck are belong 
to traffic noise. Among those noise, machine noise is of most influence to surrounding. 
Chart 8-1 indicate noise source degree. When several machine is on at same time, noise from 
those machine will louder, according to comparison investigation, louder noise will be 3-8dB(A).  
Among those machines,  noise  from concrete vibration machine, exvacation machine and  
concrete kneading machine  is most louder, at 80dB(A).Chart 8-2 show that noise fade away with 
Page  367
 
 52
different distance from noise source. It shall be well arranged about machines working timetable. 
especially pile driver are forbiddend to work at night to reduce noise influence to surrounding 
residents.At same time, control noise within construction area according to chart 1-8 
Construction Area Noise Limitation ( GB12523-90) depend on different construction phrase. 
Chart 8-1 Equipment Noise Grade  
No. 
Construction machine  
Inspected noise (dB(A))
inspection distance 
1 
Excavator   
79 
15 
2 Road 
roller 
73 
10 
3 
Earth Scraper  
75 
15 
4 
automatic unload trunk 
70 
15 
5 
concret kneading machine  
79 
15 
6 
concret vibration machine 
80 
12 
7 elevator 
 
72 
15 
 
Chart 8-2 Construction machine recess distance 
 noise grade ( dB(A)) 
No. 
Construction machine  
55 60 65
70 
75 
1 Excavator 
 
190 
120 
75
40 
22 
2 
Concret kneading machine 
190 
120 
75
42 
25 
3 
Concret vibration machine 
200 
110 
66
37 
21 
4 Elevator 
 
80 
44 
25
14 
10 
 
 
8.2.3 Living Polluted Water  
 During construction period, employess will produce cetain volume living polluted water, if 
handle unproperly, it will cause pollution to surrounding. So management to living polluted water 
is necessary , Toilet and relevant facility shall be set up temperary. 
Well management on material and remain materials  can prevent polluted water from second 
pollution.It is suggested that polluted water shall through  sediment nearby construction place. 
8.2.4  Desert earth and living rubbish 
Construction of this project need earth , except  some of construction rubblish left by moved 
farmer , there is no desert earth. After completion of this project, few of construction material 
will be deserted, if  handle unproperly, it will pollute water when it rains .So each company shall 
regulate transportation rule for construction part that material shall not be desert unorganized. 
Remain and deserted material shall be cleaned in time after  construction is over.  
During constrution period, livng pollution of construction part shall be collected in time, and sent 
to rubbish treatment center of local Environment and healthy burea.      
 
Page  368
 
 53
Part 9 The Public Participation 
9.1 survey intention, method and content 
9.1.1 survey intention 
The public participation is to make the public well aware of environment and economic 
achievement of  
this project, to obtain full support and understand from the public, to reduce misunderstanding 
between  
the public and this project. Give consideration to positive suggestion from the public, it 
will make design and layout of this project more reasonable and perfect, to make the best use of  
company's advantage and achieve long term effect. At the same time, it will also benefit local 
environment protection,and give sound basement to regulate structure of this project, overall 
layout 
and environment protection treatment. 
9.1.2 survey method  
dispatch survey sheet , random check will be adopted to obtain the public comments and 
suggestion 
to this project. 
9.1.3  survey content 
according to character of this project, the public will participate in following items: 
1. know the public's idea about shipu existing environment problem 
2. personal benefit or damage and acceptable level of the public after implement of this project. 
3. benefit side on local economy, resident career situation after this project completed. 
4. attitude and suggestion from nearby resident , the public and organization toward ths project. 
 
9.2 survey scope and research object
 
Participant in this survey must representative the public of Shipu,so they must be local resident 
living  
near industrial park. Shipu relevant authority such as shipu government , county environment 
protection bureau,  
county    bureau ) shall also take part in this survey accordingly. 
personal participant in this survey must be worker, farmer, student,  group participant in this 
survey is  
local government, social organzation, and company. 
 
9.3 survey statistics , analysis and result 
Page  369
 
 54
this survey dispatch total 100 survey sheet, and receive total 100 sheet. participant in this  
survey statistics as chart 9-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 9-1 Public Participants list  
 
Type  
Persons  Rate(%) 
Cadre  
36 
36 
worker  
11 
11 
Farmer  
4 
4 
Students 17 
17 
status  
Other  
32 
32 
Male 63 
63 
Sex 
Female 37 
37 
,20 30 
30 
20-40 46 
46 
40-60 20 
20 
Age  
>60 4 
4 
primary school 
6 
6 
Junior middle school  
38 
38 
Senior Middle School  
47 
47 
Education 
situaton  
University 9 
9 
 
 the public participant survey report statistics please refer chart 9-2. According to chart, we know 
that  52% of participant among 100 participants thought that most serious pollution problem is 
water,  
air and noise account for 37% & 11 % respectively.Base on polluted water influence to local 
living surrounding 
from existing company, 64 % thought that it is common, while 24% concern it seriously. 
in view of necessity of this project, 66% thought that it is necessary, whilte only 9% veto . 
in view of benefit to local economy to resident, most of participant give positive answer , account 
for 74%,  
Page  370
 
 55
21% thought they know little about this project.  Most participant concern to environment 
pollution. 
31% for air pollution, 57% for water pollution , and 13% for noise. Attitude to this project , 
73% thought that project can be right on schedule when  meet drainage standard after treatment. 
14% thought that it can't be put in operation right now, while 13% have no idea.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 9-2 Public survey result  
No. 
Survey Content  
Persons Proportion( %) 
Air  
37 
37 
water  
52 
52 
1 
Big pollution problem 
shipu exist at present 
Noise  
11 
11 
Severe  
24 
24 
not severe 
12 
12 
2 
Influence degree  of 
polluted water from 
existing company 
common 64 64 
yes 66 
66 
no  
9 
9 
3 
Necessity to build 
new project  
no idea 
25 
25 
benefit 74 74 
 damage 
5 
5 
4 
Benefit to local 
residents after 
completion of this 
project  
no idea 
21 
21 
5 Most 
concerned 
poluted air  
30 
30 
Page  371
 
 56
polluted water 
57 
57 
 pollution 
 
Noise  
13 
13 
No 14 
14 
Yes if meet standard
73 
73 
6 
Attitude to this project 
abstainer  
13 
13 
 
 
9.4 conclusion  
know from above mentioned survey content and result, construction of this project had got  
positive comments and support from the public. When we implement three pollution treatment 
and  
ensure meet drainage standard before drain , this project will get support from the public.
 
Part 10 Environment Management and inspection
 
10.1    complete environment protection structure 
function and nature of first stage of shipu seafood industrial park is focus  on market, take 
seafood processing as main body, equip with techology information, management service,  
turn to be seafood industrial park with competitiveness and  strong radiation to nearby place 
on economy field.  Therefore, it must require proper environment protection method and 
management. 
at same time, administrative committee of industrial park must give priority to environment  
protection . It is suggested that special employee shall responsible for environment protection 
work in industrial park, coordinate work with Xiangshan environment protection bureau on detail 
issue  
in industrial park. 
10.2 strengthen environment protection management 
momentunm of economy harmonize develop with environment request that environment 
protection  
management bureau must move their strategy , control whole processing line of industrial  
pollution, control from beginning of processing instead of the end point and control in-line  
processing. 
2. separate environment evaluation  of each company must be strictly  carry on  in industrial park,   
base on requirement of this project,and give detail requirement to different company. 
3. existing company in this project must  knock down their own boiler , new established company  
are not allowed to set up boiler. Industrial park will offer hot and air , use clean energy . 
dinning hall shall use gas , snot and polluted air shall be treated by snot machine then exhauted to 
outside. 
Page  372
 
 57
4. each compnay in industrial park must first pretreated pollution as per internal stipulation for 
company then drain to treatment center of industrial park. 
 
10.3  strengthen environment inspection 
Xiangshan environment proteciton and inspection bureau shall be entrusted to take regular 
inspection to this project during construciton period and operation period. 
noise , dust shall be inspected during construciton period. During operation period, inspection 
must be given on PH,SS, NH3-N, CODcr and BOD 5 of  polluted water drain from each 
company and from  
treatment center, and at least each month inspect one time, each time one day. 
Set up a regular inspection point in Shipu harbor ( located at least 1500m from drainage exit  
place of this project ). Each season plan to inspect a time for PH,SS, NH3-n, CODcr and BOD5  
retearch influence of this project to Shipu harbor at random time. 
 
 
 
Part 11 Pollution Treatment and total volume  control 
11.1 Pollution Treatment Method  
11.1.1 Clean production 
Clean production is refered to production method not only meet the public demand but also 
reasonable utilize resource and energy , and also a effective management to use the less natural 
material , to reduce pollution volume and harmless pollution and recircul this pollution.In a 
word,clean production is demand of development, in line with world industry development trend, 
a challenge to traditional rough industry, an important method to coordinate development 
between environment and economy , to support continuous develop, therefore, clean production 
shall be encouraged during processing 
to completely control produce in line. 
This project covered company of seafood rough processsing, seafood further processing, ocean 
biologyical processing, shell processing ,meal processing etc., CODcr of pollution water above 
mentioned company drained is higher dense, with massive volume, so control and treatment at 
end point will require high investment and operation cost. 
Therefore,treatment and suggestion of this project on clean production as below: 
1. Pollution water of this project is coming from raw material cleaning of seafood processing .So 
each company in industrial park must control pollution water volume to save water resource, 
upgrade washing equipment and raise efficient of cleaning. 
Page  373
 
 58
2. Shell processing company must pay attention to water of washing pool to reuse of those water. 
3. refuel shall use low SS superior quality coal or coal cause no dust, while boiler shall use  
 
to raise refuel efficency and reduce air pollution . company existing boiler shall be knocked 
down, and all hot and steam will supply by treatment center which will unite treat dust and SS. 
11.1.2 Polluted water  
1. As analyzed, polluted water from shell processing company, meal processing company, and 
seafood processing company are not meet internal standard of industrial park, so it is essential to 
give some pretreatment to polluted water. 
Suggested processing line as below: 
Polluted water     grille      condensation pool      air floating      sediment pool  
polluted water 
Pipeline to treatment center       chemical drug                mud 
 
Polluted water from shell processing company: 
Feed water quality: CODcr 3000mg/l, BOD5 700mg/l, SS 600mg/l; 
Drainage water requirement : CODcr 2000mg/l, BOD5 1400mg/l, SS400mg/l. 
Polluted water from meal processing company:  coming from defrozen step, expected drainage 
water  quality meet CODcr 1200mg/l, BOD5 500mg/l, SS300mg/l, meet internal drainage 
standard of industrial park. 
Polluted water from seafood rough proceesing: 
 
Polluted water     grille      condensation pool      sediment pool  
polluted water 
Pipeline to treatment center       chemical drug        mud 
 
Feed water quality : CODcr 2133mg/l, BOD5 1000mg/l, SS1400mg/l; 
Drainage water requirement: CODcr 2000mg/l, BOD5 1200mg/l, SS400mg/l. 
 
2. Rain and polluted water shall be drained separately.Pipeline network to drain rain and polluted 
water shall 
be paved to avoid polluted water mixed with rain to drain direct to the outside. Through pipeline, 
rain will be  
drained direct to rivers nearby this project, while polluted water polluted water treatment center 
of this project. 
Water after treatment must meed II standard of Polluted water drainage standard  GB8978-1996 
3. As analysised, total pollution water volume of this project is 2633m3/d,so designed capacity of 
treatment center will  
Page  374
 
 59
be 3000m3/d.Treatment center will collect all polluted water in this project , designed enter water 
quality is CODcr 2000 
mg/l,BOD5 1200mg/l, SS400mg/l,Cl-2000mg/l,Nh3-N 150mg/l,animal and vegetation oil 
100mg/l,Ph6-9. 
Accordiing to design principle and enter and exit water quality, consider season and intermission 
character of drainage polluted water of each company ,treatment center will adopt solidation and 
chemical method . Solidation will adopt air floating system ,while chemical method will use 
CAST biological method. Detail processing line as below: 
          Alkali                                          Air blower  
  
Water     regulate pool    air floating system     oxygen pool    Cast pool     drainage 
 
           Air blower   wet mud       filter and compress machine     dry mud 
 
Design plan of building , construction of  pollution treatment center please refer to chart 11-1 
 
Chart 11-1 Main building & construction list  
 
No. Name 
 
Dimension 
Unit 
Quantity 
 Remarks  
1 Grille 
0.6 x 1.0x 0.8m 
2 Regulate 
pool 
25x 12x4.0m 
set 1 
3 Mud 
Pool 
12x4x4m 1 
build together  
4 Cast 
Pool 
40x10x5.5m 
set 
2 
5 Oxygen 
pool 
20x5x5.5m 1 
build together  
6 Mud 
Condensation 
6.0x3.0x5.0xm 
set 
2  
 
7 
dehydrate & drug add house 
15x6.5x4.2m 1 
including lab, 
p
ower control room 
8 
Air floating pool 
10x5x2.5m 
set 
1  
 
Through above-mentioned procedure , polluted water can meet II standard of Pollution water 
drainage standard ,  
CODcr150mg/l,BOD5 30mg/l,SS 150mg/l.Technical and economy index as below: 
Treatment Scale: 3000m3/d 
Project total investment : RMB2.484million 
Operation expense :RMB1.2/ton polluted water 
Employee: 4 persons 
Reduce efficency of each step please refer to chart 11-2 
 
Chart 11-2 Polluted Water Elimination rate of each step  
Project  
  
Treatment unit 
CODcr( mg/l) 
BOD5 ( mg/l) 
SS(mg/l) 
Flow in water quality  
2000 
1200 
400 
Page  375
 
 60
Flow in  
2000 1200 
400 
Exit 
600 360 
100 
Air 
floating 
pool  
Eliminate rate 
70 70 
75 
Flow in  
600 360 
100 
Exit 
420 288 
96 
Oxygen 
pool  
Eliminate rate 
30 20 
5 
Flow in  
420 288 
95 
Exit 
120 29 
60 
CAST 
pool  
Eliminate rate 
71 90 
37 
Total eliminate rate  
94 97.6 
85 
II standard 
150 30 
150 
 
Polluted water treatment center located at west of this porject, please refer to Attached drawing 3. 
Eventually polluted water through treatment will be drained to Shipu harbor. 
11.1.3 Polluted air treatment  
1.All hot and steam will supply by industrial park unitedly. All existing boiler of each company 
shall be knocked down. 
air from boiler shall pass dust and SS treatment and exhaust from chimney with 4.5meters highth 
to the outside. 
Wenqiuli cleaning machine is suggested to remove dust, efficency rate must over 95%, while 
TSP exhaust dense must less than 
200mg/m3, in line with 2nd indsutry II time Exhaust Standard of Polluted Air from boiler 
GWPB3-1999. 
SS remove method will use alkali , principle is to use NaOH liquid to attract SO2 in tank, to form 
Na2SO3 and flow to sediment pool  reaction with lime to form CaSO3 sediment and NaOH 
liquid which will reused in tank. Below is the processing line :  
 
Pollute air        attraction tank      warm up machine    clean air to exhaust out chimney 
 
Na
2
SO
3        
  NaOh 
Lime        sediment and reuse        CaSO
3
 
 
Through treatment on dust from boiler, TSP density will less than 200mg/m3, SO2 less than 
900mg/ m3. As analyze in chapter 3 of Part 6, dust from boiler will not effect surrounding. 
2.To unfavorable smell from meal processing plant, more trees shall be planted to eliminate 
influence to edge of plant and surrounding , improve workding condition for employee. 
3. Miscellaneous : land scaping beside main road  shall protect air pollution from car . Snot 
machine shall  be oil free , and exhaust through treatment. 
11.1.4 Solid pollution Treatment  
Page  376
 
 61
1.Mosit solid pollution is coming from water treatment .Mud is contained  some chemical 
compound which may casue second pollution to environment, so it shall pass harmless treatment 
first. According to current technology, it is feasible to sent those mud to Fantouao rubbish 
treatment center. Before send to rubbish treatment center, it shall be piled up to prevent infiltrate 
and lapse,  and set up water proof facility to avoid second pollution. At same time mud 
transportation shall be well arranged. 
2. Due to solid pollution from fish classification  can be reused, it shall adopt produce and clean 
at same day method to avoid decay and bring unfavorable smell. 
3. To build a rubbish transshipment site in this project. As indicated at Chart 4-17, total living 
rubbish production of this project will be 240t/a,so it is required to set up a 3tons rubbish 
transshipment site, clean  up 3 times  each day, then transport to rubbish treatment center by 
sealed rubblish cleaning van . 
11.1.5 Noise treatment  
1.Production area and living area shall be placed reasonably. Noise source shall be placed at 
center ,  
closed by  warehouse and other assistance house. Workshop , polluted water treatment facility 
shall keep certain distance to resident area in north of this project, to avoid influence. Equipment 
with low noise shall be selected , and equipment installation shall consider method as reduce 
vibration and noise isolation.    
2. 30m width green belt shall be set up between resident area and this project.  
3. traffic speed on road of this project shall less than 20KM/h, no horn when passing the road. 
4. Car shall from north to south through Garden road  and Junming road ,then west Xinggang 
road to go through industrial park. Nangang road is for passenger. 
11.1.6 Land Scaping  
Increase land scaping. Land scaping rate shall over 30%, below is detail methods: 
1. 30m width green belt shall be placed at north side of Nangang road , to eliminate environment  
pollution to resident area. 
2.15m width river green belt shall be placed near river at west of this project. 
3. small garden will be placed at current existing plant of Geshi hill. 
4. Block greenland will be placed at the  enterance of this project. 
5. Green belt shall be placed at both sides of road, barrier between left and right shall plant some 
low green bush , to eliminate dust and noise influence to surrounding. 
 
11.21 Total volume control  
As per requirment of [1996]  Ninth-five years Zhejiang province Environment protection Aim 
and 2010 future aim  from Zhejiang Environment protection bureau and province plan bureau,it 
is focus on control 12 pollution exhaust volume  : CODcr, petroleum,    mercury, dust and 
indutrial dust, SO2 etc. As analyzed , pollution in this project shall control exhaust volume  are 
CODcr, dust and SO2.  
Page  377
 
 62
It shall base on clean production and pollution treatment exhaust after meet standard to control 
total  
exhaust volume. 
 Polluted water in this project must meet II standard of Polluted water drainage standard ( 
GB8978-1996), i.e. CODcr    150mg/l, BOD5    30mg/l, SS   150mg/l. 
Total drainage volume of polluted water is suggested to control within CODcr 395t/a. 
Polluted air in this project must meet 2nd area II time standard of Polluted air from boiler exhaust 
standard ( GWPB3-1999) , i.e. SO2 900mg/m3, TSP    200mg/m3, it is suggested that total 
polluted air exhaust volume shall within SO2   54t/a, TSp 12t/a. 
This project is new established project  and alrealy meet drainage standard, so total exhaust 
volume need to  coordinated with town total exhaust volume  by local environment protection 
bureau. 
11.3 Pollution protection method list  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
Chart 11-3 Pollution Treatment List  
Project  
 Treatment  name  
 Main facility and illustration  
Management  
Clean production 
Detail refer to 11.1.1  
Pipeline network 
Rain and polluted water will be separated. 
Polluted water through treatment center then to 
Shipu harbor  
Polluted water 
Treatment center  
Design scale must at 3000m3/d, drainage water 
must at II standard of GB8978-1996 
Solid Pollution 
  
living garbage and mud will be sent to rubbish 
treatment center  
Noise  
Elimination 
reasonable design and choose low noise 
equipment and isolation noise  
Land Scaping  
  
increase land scaping , rate must over 30% 
 
 
 
Page  378
 
 63
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part 12 Environment Economy Profit and Loss Analysis 
12.1 Social achievement  
Page  379
 
 64
Since the reform and opening to outside, marine industry of shipu start from scratch,  
develop from small to big , now had formed economy structrue take marine industry as base, give 
priority to  
marine, industry and commercial ,other economical part existing at same time.  
With China take part in WTO, marine industry of Shipu will face competitive challenge , at same 
time more  
business opportunity available.Therefore, it is necessary to fasten step to develop marine  
industry of Shipu and face challenge of WTO with an upgrade feature. 
attract straggling seafood company to this industrial park , will not only convenient to  
strength management and supervision on each company, but also accelerate further develop of 
company, fast and matep toward industrialize and urbanlize of shipu. Implement of this project 
will  
promote development of shipu marine industry and relief labor pressure to some extent. 
Therefore, 
construction of this project will be of obvious social achievement. 
12.2  Economy achievement  
some of shipu company had finished capital primitive accumulation since the reform and opening  
to the outside, with comparatively strong capital resource,at same time they are qualified to  
expand and reproduction.Some of company had formed certain scales and occupied space in keen  
competition market, they are not satisfied with existing market and scale, and start to pursue 
larger scale , improve occupation rate of domestic market and international market . 
Completence of this project will attract more capital to marine industry and more new company, 
offer sound surrounding and opportunity to further development of company with potential and 
advantage.. Through industrial park, it will create a space for company to exchange more 
information , technology innovation, enlarge production, offer solid base for company to 
competitive at domestic market. Therefore, construction of this project is of obvious economy 
achievement. 
12.3 Social Achievement  
Due to history and plan factor, some of plant is small scale , and difficult to expand at original 
place , and also the sturcture is not compact which cause lots of production problems such as 
unable to make full use of  resource, increase operation cost of company, low utilization rate of 
material , not easy to control evnironment etc. This project will attract more company to invest, 
meet the demand of company 2nd  expansion, share with other companies on land, water, power 
and pollution treatment at comparativly wide place, guarantee safety production of each 
company, make company organization more compact, improve material utilization rate, and 
breakdown company operation cost. 
12.4 Environment investment  
Page  380
 
 65
Environment investment cover polluted water treatment plant, solid pollution treatment, polluted 
air treatment, pipeline network for polluted water. Detail environment investment please refer to 
chart 12-1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 12-1 Environmnet protection 
Investment list  
 
No. 
Content  
Investment ( RMB1000) 
1 
Polluted water treatment center  of 
industrial park 
2,500 
2 
Polluted water treatment center of each 
company  
5,000 
3 
Polluted water drain to sea system  
70 
4 
Pipeline for polluted water 
1,100 
5 
Rubbish Transshipment center 
30 
6 
Dust& SS elimination equipment  
200 
7 
Noise isolation  
300 
8 
land scaping  
2,800 
9 
total  
12,000 
 
12.5 Environment investment and proportion analysis  
Proportion Environment investment accout for  project total investment  and total output value 
can be calculated as below formula :  
HJ=ET/JTx100% 
Remarks: HJ- proportion total environment investment accout for infrastructure investment of 
this project  
ET- Environment protection facility investment , unit RMB10,000 
JT- Infrasturcture investment of this project, unit RMB10,000 
HZ=ET/CEx100% 
Remarks: HZ: Proportion environment protection investment accout for total output value 
        CE: Total output value , RMB 10,000 
Environment facility investment ET=RMB 12million; infrastructure investment of project 
JT=RMB 322million; total output value RMB 400million, so : 
HJ=12/322 X 100%=3.73% 
HZ=12/400 X 100%=3.00% 
Environment investment accout for total investment is 3.73% 
Page  381
 
 66
 
Part 13. Summary and suggestion 
13.1 Environment Quality Current Situation 
Water environment : according to current inspeciton result of this enviroment evaluation, 
 the water qualiy of Shipu harbor near to the drainage point, the index of PH value, CODmn, 
DO, tempreature and total chrome are up to par, except for the NH3-N. And the PH max. is 
0.506, CODmn is 0.380, DO is 0.164, total chrome is 0.008, NH3-N ID 1.02. The overrun of 
NH3-N is general phenomenon of the sea water quality in Shipu harbor meatus, due to living 
polluted water direct drain to shipu harbor  and industrial polluted water  drained beyong 
standardand .For the structure of Shipu town is focus on seafood processing industrial, the 
chroma of NH3-N are upper. Current inspection result indicated that  water quality of Shipu 
harbor can’t meet the requirement of 4th kind area ocean water quality GB3097-1997. 
Air environment: according to current inspection result of this enviroment evaluation, that 
the one time and day value of SO2, NO2, TSP are up to standard, and the maximum daily value 
of SO2 is 0.026, one time value is 0.014, maximum daily value of NO2  is 0.058, one time value 
is 0.042, the maximal daily value of TSP is 0.533. So air quality of Shipu is sound, in line with 
2nd grade Air quality standard  (GB3095-1996). 
     Noise environment: according to current inspection resuly, that noise at all inspection site of 
nearby meet standard at day and ninght.  
 
13.2 Pollution production of this project
 
Pollution production of this project, details please refer  to followinig chart 13-1: 
 
Chart 13-1 Pollution production list  
Pollution  
Volume  
Volume  
789900m3/a(2633m3/d) 
CODcr 
2473t/a(8.24t/a) 
BOD5 
981t/a93.27t/d0 
Polluted 
water  
SS 
994t/a(3.31t/d) 
total volume 
60140000m3/a( 200500 m3/d) 
SO2 
124t/a(0.41t/d) 
Polluted 
air  
dust  
233t/a(0.78t/d) 
Coal residue  
1860t/a(6.20t/d) 
living garbage  
240t/a(0.80t/d) 
Solid 
pollution  
mud  
4500t/a(30.00t/d) 
Noise  
refer to chart 4-18 
Page  382
 
 67
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.3 Pollution Treatment
 
Pollution Treatment of this project , detail please refer to chart 13-2 
Project  Treatment Name Main facility and illustrationPolluted water  
Chart 11-3 Pollution Treatment List  
Project  
 Treatment  name  
 Main facility and illustration  
Management  
Clean production 
Detail refer to 11.1.1  
Pipeline network 
Rain and polluted water will be separated. 
Polluted water through treatment center then to 
Shipu harbor  
Polluted water 
Treatment center  
Design scale must at 3000m3/d, drainage water 
must at II standard of GB8978-1996 
Solid Pollution 
  
living garbage and mud will be sent to rubbish 
treatment center  
Noise  
Elimination 
reasonable design and choose low noise 
equipment and isolation noise  
Land Scaping  
  
increase land scaping , rate must over 30% 
 
13.4 Drainage Volume of Pollution  
Pollution drainage volume  
Chart 13-3 Pollution production list  
Pollution  
Volume  
Volume  
789900m3/a(2633m3/d) 
CODcr 
118t/a(3.95t/a) 
BOD5 
24t/a(0.08t/d) 
Polluted 
water  
SS 
118t/a(3.95t/d) 
total volume 
60140000m3/a( 200500 m3/d) 
Polluted 
air  
SO2 
54t/a(0.18t/d) 
Page  383
 
 68
 
dust  
12t/a(0.04t/d) 
Coal residue  
1860t/a(6.20t/d) 
living garbage  
240t/a(0.80t/d) 
Solid 
pollution  
mud  
4500t/a(30.00t/d) 
Noise  
refer to chart 4-18 
 
13.5 Evaluation and summary on Environment Influence  
13.5.1 Water Environment  
Shipu harbor been evaluated at low tide, CODmn  of inspection site 50m away from 
drainage  is 2.822mg/l , account for 56.44% of standard figure , which will met 4 grade ocean 
water quality standard ( GB3097-1997) if polluted water of this project drained within 
standard.On the contract, CODmn of ocean area within 300m away from drainage point will 
beyond 4 grade ocean water quality ( GB3095-1997) , which will effect nearby ocean area 
seviously.So it is essential to eliminate occurrence possibility of accident drainage . 
Water feed point of  nearby seafood  farming base is rivers near this project, while polluted 
water of this project drain into shipu harbor instead of nearby rivers,so it will not effect water 
quality of farming base. 
13.5.2 Air Environment  
Under normal condition, village will be sevious effect by polluted air from boiler is xiatang 
village ,at west of this project.Supposed  under D grade stability effected by E direction wind, 
SO2 floor dense is 0.06727mg/m3, tsp 0.01495 mg/m3, plus original figure of air, SO2 floor 
dense will be 0.07427 mg/m3, TSP 0.1795mg/m3, in line with II grade of Air Quality Standard ( 
GB3095-1996), it is obviously that polluted air from boiler will not influence surrounding 
village, A resident area and Shipu town. 
 unfavorable smell of meal processing plant have no influence to area 120m away from 
plant. Shipu fatfree meal processing plant is 200m away from closed Dongbian village , 150m 
away from A resident area, so meal processing plant will few influence to surrounding.Given  the 
situation that  A resident area  is only 50m away from Nangang road , it is suggested that meal 
processing company shall not allow to establish at 70m away fron Nangang road in future plan to 
ensure 120m distance. Unfavorable smell  have few influence to surrounding . 
13.5.3 Noise Environment  
As analysis and predicted, Noise will not effect A resident area and nearby village.  
13.5.4 Solid Pollution  
After completion of this project , solid pollution wil including coal residue, living pollution and 
mud from water treatment center. When all pollution treatment put in place, solid pollution will 
not effect nearby sorrounding. 
13.6 Summary  
Construction of this project will accelerate development of seafood processing industry, with 
obvious economical and social achievement . During whole implement of this project, it must be 
Page  384
 
 69
strictly carry on “3 same time “policy and protection treatment this evaluation report proposed, 
make efforts to reduce pollution volume. In view of environment protection , ths project is 
feasible at choosed place. 
   
 
Page  385
 
 70
Project Plant for Shipu Polluted Water Center Treatment 
 
Location:   No.3 block land of first stage shipu Industrial park  
Occupy area : 15 Mu land ( convert to 9900 square meters)  
Investment : RMB10 milllion , convert to USD1.205million  
Daily treat capacity :   5000 cubic meter polluted water 
Project Agenda:  
Prestage work such as Design , environment evaluation shall be all completed. 
Dec 2003, Tender invitation complete  
Jan – June 2004, civil work  complete  
June –Sept. 2004, equipment installation and debug 
Nov 2004, trial operation shall performed. It is accepted only if performance reach design 
requirement. Treatment center will put in place and begin to operate. 
Treatment method: Biological and chemical treatment system, meet standard before exhausted.    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  386
 
 71
 
 
 
Fangchenggang, Guangxi Autonomous Region 
 
 
 
 
 
Coastal Fishery Resources and Environmental Monitoring Management Center 
 
Jiaye Aquaculture Synthetically Exploiture Ltd. [Marine fish hatchery] 
i.  Annex 1.  Monitoring Report of Environmental Monitoring Station of 
Fangchenggang for Fish Hatchery 
 
Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Co., Ltd. [Marine fish cage culture] 
 
Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Co., Ltd. [Seafood freezing] 
 
Page  387
 
 72
 
 
No\1f  D200320  
 
 
 
 
 
 
REGISTRATION FORM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF THE 
PROPOSED PROJECT 
( Tentative ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Title:
 
Coastal Fishery Resources and Environmental Monitoring Management 
Center, Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi
 
 
Implementing Agency:
 
Fishery and Animal Husbandry Bureau, Fangchenggang Municipal 
Government
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Preparation: November 28, 2003 
Page  388
 
 73
Formulated by: National Environmental Protection Agency 
 
 
Project title 
Coastal Fishery Resources and Environmental Monitoring Management 
Center, 
           Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi 
Implementing 
Agency 
Fishery and Animal Husbandry Bureau, Fangchenggang Municipal 
Government, Guangxi 
Legal Person 
Qin Huiyi 
Liaison Officer 
Zhong Mingyuan 
Address 
Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 
Telephone 0770-2822353 
 Fax 
0770-2831882 
Postalcode 
538001 
Construction 
Site 
Central Administrative District, Fangchenggang Municipality 
Construction 
Type 
Newly Built
\01v
Rebuilding or Enlarging 
Built
\1f
Technical Rebuilding
\1f 
Industry Type 
and Code 
 
Coverage 
Space\1f
m
2
\1f 
6000 Floor 
Space 
\1f
m
2
\1f 
4000 
Total 
Investment 
(
million yuan RMB)
 
16.33 
Of which investment for 
environmental protection 
(
million yuan RMB) 
36 Investment 
proportion 
2.2% 
Anticipated 
Date of 
Operation 
December 2005 
Estimated Annual 
Operational  Days 
250 
I. Project components and size:  
to build an office building for the proposed coastal zone management with a building space of 
4,800 m2  
plus an auxiliary building space of 410 m2   
II. Building materials and major facilities (including boilers and power generators, etc.): to be 
specified 
III. Water and power consumption 
Item Consumption 
Item 
Consumption 
Water (ton/yr.) 
20,000 
Fuel (ton/yr.) 
-- 
Electricity (Kw/yr.) 
150,000 Gas 
(m3/yr.)  -- 
Coal (ton/yr.) 
-- 
Others 
-- 
Page  389
 
 74
IV. Waste water, discharge rate and discharging arrangement:  
Domestic sewage of 18,000 tons per annum will be discharged in to the municipal sewage-
discharging  
network.. 
V. Brief description of the surroundings:  
The Center is to be built at the central administrative district of the municipality, witch is about 
16 Km.s  
away from the harbor and 12 Km.s apart from the neighboring Fangcheng District. Geological 
feature at this area is represented by multi-deck denuded bedrocks formed by sandstones, 
arenaceous rocks and mudstones. The surrounding hills have good man-made vegetations 
dominated by masson pines, pines, eucalyptus and dwarf shrubs, with average vegetative 
diversity. The nearby sea has a good variety of planktons. The coastal environment is of average. 
No concentrated urban dwellers or factories exist nearby. 
VI. Brief description of the technological flow to be employed (must specify waste water, waste 
gas and waste  
residue to be discharged and/or noises if available):  
The project is a public utility project mainly for monitoring and management of the coastal 
fishery resources and environment. Domestic sewage is to be discharged into the municipal 
network and no other wastes are available. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  390
 
 75
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VII. Pollution control measures to be undertaken (including both the construction period and 
operational  
stage):  
Major risks to affect the environmental surroundings are from the dusts, noises and refuses 
during  
construction period, including slight soil and water erosion and dusting due to civil 
construction, and noises from building, transportation and assembling operations during 
construction period. A certain amount of sewage water is also generated during the operational 
stage. 
     Building refuses from civil construction will be transported and placed to the designated site 
to avoid  
affection to the surroundings. The nude ground appeared due to civil construction will be 
watered in time to  
avoid dusting and paved or turfed subsequently. Replanting is planned to cover 2,000 m2, 
accounting for one  
third of the total area occupied by the project. 
    Affection during construction period on the surrounding atmosphere and sound environment 
will  
disappear when the civil construction is completed. 
    Sewage water discharged at the operational stage will be led to the sewage treatment plants 
Page  391
 
 76
before finally  
discharging into the municipal network..  
 
 
 
 
VIII. Comments by the supervision agency:  
1.  Agree to build the project; 
2.  Construction execution unit must submit a report to the undersigned and record in its 
file the noise displacement during civil construction 15 days prior to the 
commencement of the construction; 
3.  Sewage water discharged during the operational period must be treated before it enters 
into the municipal network. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Processing officer (signature): Jin Yan                Fangchenggang Municipal Environment  
                                               Protection Bureau (seal) 
                                               November 28, 2003 
 
 
   
 
 
Registry Form of Construction Project  
Environmental Influence to Environment 
 
 
Page  392
 
 77
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Name\1fThe Marine Fish Hatchery Of Fangchenggang Guangxi 
 
Construction Unit: Jiaye Aquaculture Synthetically Exploiture Ltd.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Compiling Date: Aug. 11,
2003 
Supervised by State General Environment Protection Bureau 
 
Responsibility List 
 
Evaluation unit:  Fangchengguang Environmental Scientific Graduate School 
 
Post No.:National Environmental Estimating Certificate Second No.2916 
 
Person in charge of Evaluation unit: Lanyan  
 
Person in charge of the project: Jiangchaowei (environment evaluation post No.13844) 
Page  393
 
 78
 
With regard to the 
assessor
assessor
assessor
assessor
 
Name specialty 
the title 
of a 
technical 
post 
Post No. 
Duty 
signatur
e
Lan Yan 
Environmental 
Supervising
 
engineer 
Environment 
evaluation post 
No.C29160004  
Auditing 
 
Huang Xianqun 
Environmental 
Supervising 
 
High 
engineer
 
Environment 
evaluation post 
No.C29160005 
Auditing
  
 
Li Li 
Environmental 
Supervising 
 
assistant 
engineer
 
Environment 
evaluation post 
No.C29160015 
Report 
compiling 
 
 
Jiang Chaowei 
Environmental 
Supervising 
assistant 
engineer 
Environment 
evaluation post 
No.C29160016 
Report 
compiling 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General Introduction to the Project 
Project 
description
 
The Marine Fish Hatchery Of Fangchenggang Guangx
i
 
Construction 
unit
 
Jiaye Aquaculture Integrative Exploiture Ltd.
 
Project legal 
representative
 
Qin Yaliu 
Linkman 
Qin Yaliu 
Address 
Postal Road No.20 Fangchenggang Guangxi 
Telephone
 0770-2827927 
Fax. 
0770-2827927 
Post 
538001 
Construction site
 
Yushitan Seaboard of Fangchenggang Qisha town  
Page  394
 
 79
Project- stablishing 
Dept.
 
Agricultural. Department 
Warrant file No.
No.(2001)16 
Construction kind 
New 
Line sort and 
code
 
Marine culture 0411 
Occupied area 
 (m
2
) 
167000 
Afforestation 
area
\1f
M
2
\1f 
3000 
Total invest 
(10000Yuan RMB)
 
1623.8 
Among which:  
environmental 
protection invest
(10000YUANRM
B)
 
66.0 
The rate of 
environmental 
protection invest 
4.1% 
Evaluation expense 
(10000Yuan RMB
\1f 
 
Estimated Date 
of Production
 
Jan.2005 
Project Content And Dimensions: 
 
The project will be plan to build in Yushitan seacoast of Qisha town Gangkou district 
Fangchenggang. It’s total invest have 1504.5ten thousand yuan RMB\1fand occupied area have 300 
Mu. The task of the project is mostly hatching economic oceanic fish of autochthonic offing 
artificially, and provide fries to breed aquatics. The project will be plan to producing 850 ten thousand 
oceanic fish fries, include 80 ten thousand 
Epinephelies
 fries and 770 ten thousand sea-bream fries.  
Project Content: 
A/  Civil Engineering 
1
\01
 Breeding pond for ripe fish and fries: 15ha. 
2
\01
 Hatching plant: 2400m
2
. 
3
\01
 Plant for cultivating bait: 800 m
2
. 
4
\01
 Office and laboratory: 200 m
2
. 
5
\01
 Assistant building: total  380 m
2
, include dorm and warehouse and repairing plant ect. 
B/  Accessorial Engineering 
1\1f3000m of road out the hatchery, 1000m of road in the hatchery, 2000m
2 
of virescence. 
2\1fPower supply , include 4000m of power supply circuitry and transformer. 
3\1fWater supply.
 
Page  395
 
 80
4\1fFixing a boiler of 0.5t/h for heat supply. 
5
\1f
Engineering for protecting environment include 600m
3
 of sewage disposal pond. 
C/  Equipments 
The equipments include water supply of hatching pond ,  and oxygen supply for cultivating  
pond and hatching pond, and generate electricity, and official equipments, and laboratory 
equipments, and vehicle, and sewage disposal equipments and material. 
     D/  Work days and employee 
There are 300 work days of six period . There are thirty two employees. 
 
 
Existing Pollution and Main Environmental Problems. 
A/ Existing pollution 
The project will be plan to build in Yushitan seacoast of Qisha town Gangkou district 
Fangchenggang. The area is sandlot–salina, and planting paddy and peanut and red-potato and 
more. There are few ponds of cultivating prawn near the area, and not cultivating at inshore beach. 
There is not other industrial pollution sources. There are few fishers anchoring in shore, and let few 
oiliness sewage and domestic sewage from fishers, but pollution is very less. The water quality 
index are itemized in the annex one.  
B/ Main environmental problems. 
1\1fThe pollution from cultivating marine product. 
2\1fThe fishers let few oiliness sewage and domestic sewage to influencing water quality near 
maritime space. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  396
 
 81
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brief Introduction to Natural and Social Environment
 
Natural Environment (topography, landform, geology, climate, weather, hydrology, 
vegetation and biological variability etc.) 
The project will be plan to build in Yushitan seacoast of Qisha town Gangkou 
district\1fthe distance from the area and Qisha are 9km , and the distance from Qisha and 
Fangchenggang are 31km\1fQisha town locate in the south Qiguang peninsula, and  faces sea 
with three orientation. The physiognomy of land is seashore hill area, and hypsography tend 
towards from northeast to southwest. Geologic conformation in the area is the fourth 
alternating aggradation layer of sea and land, and the cladding is singleness, there are gravel 
and mix gravel and shell mostly, and local  interlayer is sludge soil. The soil state is a bit 
dense, and containing water is saturation.  
The district locate in the south tropic of cancer, and have subtropical climate characteristic, 
and the weather is tepid and more rain, longer summer and short winter. There are 1763.3 
hours of sunlight whole year, and not frost. Perennial average air temperature is 22.3\1f ,the 
highest air temperature past years is 35\1f,and lowest air temperature past years is 0.9\1f.The air 
pressure be affected mostly by height altitude and atmosphere circumfluence, and average air 
pressure past years is 1008.0hPa, average air pressure of every month have discrepancy not 
too. The district is close to sea, and relative humidity is bigger, annual average relative 
humidity is 81%.The district locate in the south Asia landmass and monsoon weather area, and 
is affected by monsoon circumfluence of south Pacific Ocean, tropic cyclone move frequently, 
the wind orientation is seasonal changed obviously. The wind orientation is mostly the north 
wind in September every year and March next year, and is mostly southwest and southeaster 
wind from April to August every year, and the tropic cyclone move frequently, average wind 
Page  397
 
 82
speed past years is 3.1m/s.The wind power of the tropic storm is mostly 7\1f9 grade, and the 
most wind power is upwards 12grade.The tide of the sea area belong to normal all-day tide, 
The tide flows into North Gulf by the gulf doorway after the Pacific tide flowing into South 
China Sea mostly, and the tidal range is more, the most tidal range is 5.56m,average tidal 
range is 2.39 m, average high tide-curve past years is 3.07 m, average flood tide takes a period 
of eleven hours, average tidal fall takes a period of eight hours. 
There are perennial windbreak of conifers and pinasters and eucalyptus and more. in the 
area of the project, and the vegetation have mostly fern and ruderal and shrubbery and more. 
There are more kinds of plankton in the sea area, and there are more five hundred kinds of fish 
and tow hundred kinds of shrimp and fifty kinds of cephalopod and twenty kinds of crab in the 
alongshore water area. There are mostly economical halobios of weever and 
Epinephelies 
and
 
prawn and clam and oyster and more.  
Page  398
 
 83
Brief Introduction to the social environment (including social economic construction, 
education, culture and culture relic protection etc.) 
Qisha town is the biggest coastal town. Qisha fishery harbor that the town government be 
stationed is second bigger fishery harbor of Guangxi and is a national first-class border port 
for trading. There are eight administrative villages and three fishery villages and one 
inhabitant committee, the total land area is 77.2km
2
\1famong which, 3.2km
2 
is the city zone. 
The population is around 2.9 ten thousand in 2002. There are one high school and thirteen 
grade schools and one hospital. There are 3900 students in the school, among which, there are 
2585 students in the grade school and 1315 students in the high school. 
Qisha fishery harbor is old-line of more two hundred years , there are seven berth of 
2000ton in the harbor ,it is the biggest of fishery production base and fishery goods 
distributing center, marine product output is more 17 ten thousand ton. The economic structure 
of the town is mostly ocean fishing, and seafood processing and trading and seawater breed 
aquatics salt industry and agriculture have be possessed of bigger proportion in the economic 
structure of the town. GDP of the town is 2.7 hundred million yuan RMB in 2002. 
 
Page  399
 
 84
Current Environmental Quality
 
Current Environmental Quality and main environmental problems (air, ground water, 
underground water, noise and ecological environment) 
A. Current Air Quality  
According to the investigating information for the project area,the  
Air quality is all right, and up to Criterion II of GB3095-1996 Air and Environment Quality. 
B. Current Seawater Quality of alongshore maritime space  
According to the information monitoring the nearby sea area of the project area by the 
city Environment Supervision and testing Station, main indexes is conformed to the standards 
of the Second Criterion of 
The Quality of Seawate
r( GB3097-1997). 
C. Current quality of noise environment  
According to the investigating information for the project area, the area  
is quiet, and current quality of noise environment is all right, all indexes is conformed to the 
Criterion\1fof The Criterion of Urban Environment Noise\1fGB3096—93\1f. 
D\1fCurrent quality of the biological environment  
The natural vegetation of the project area is good enough, the vegetable includes  
windbreak of conifers and pinasters and eucalyptus and more, the resource of halobios is 
abundant. 
The main environment protection targets ( list the targets and its protection grades)
 
In this area, there are not important cultural relics. The main environment protection 
targets nearby sea and the fish hatchery are listed as follows.  
1\1fThe environment of shelter belt and sea beach near the project area. 
2\1fThe seawater environment of sea area near bank. 
Environment protection level\1f 
Air quality is conformed to criterion II of The Air Environment Quality Criterion 
(GB3095-1996), seawater quality of sea area near bank is conformed to the criterion II of The 
Seawater Quality Criterion (GB3097-1997),groundwater quality is conformed to the criterion 
\1f of The Groundwater Quality Criterion (GB/T14848—93), quality of noise environment is 
conformed to the criterion \1fof The Criterion of Urban Environment Noise\1fGB3096—93\1f. 
Page  400
 
 85
Applicable Evaluation Standard 
Environment quality 
standard
1\1fAir Environment Quality Criterion\1fGB3095—1996\1fcriterion II, 
2\1fThe Seawater Quality Criterion\1fGB3097—1997\1fcriterion II, 
3\1fThe Fishery Water Quality Criterion\1fGB11607—89\1f, 
4\1fThe Groundwater Quality Criterion\1fGB/T14848—93\1fcriterion\1f, 
5\1fThe Criterion of Urban Environment Noise\1fGB3096—93\1fcriterion 1. 
Page  401
 
 86
Pollutant 
d
rainage
s
tandard
1.Atmosphere Pollutant Synthetical Drainage Criterion (GB16297—1996) criterion 
II, 
2.Wastewater Synthetical Drainage Criterion\1fGB8978—1996\1fcriterion 1, 
3.Atmosphere Pollutant of Boiler Drainage Criterion\1fGWPB3—1999\1fcriterion II  
period of time in second kind area, 
4.Noise Limit in The Building Site\1fGB12523—90\1f\1f 
5.Noise Criterion of Industrial Corporation Area\1fGB12348—90\1fcriterion\1f. 
Total polluter control index  
 
Total controlling index of pollutant in 2002  
Pollutant name 
Plan amount 
\1fton\1f 
Actual letting 
amount 
\1fton\1f 
Letting 
amount of 
the 
project\1fton
\1f 
Residual 
amount 
\1fton\1f 
COD 1400 
86.23 
146.49 
1167.28 
NH
3
-N 20 
19.56 
31.03 
-30.59 
So
2
 650 
680.39 
0.14 
-30.53 
Smoke 550 
85.42 
0.54 
464.04 
Solid waste 
770 
390 
17.3 
362.7 
The main polluter letting amount will be forecasted\1fCOD 146.49 t/a\1fsmoke 0.54 
t/a\1fSO
2
 0.14 t/a\1fsolid waste17.3 t/a\1fAccording to the total amount controlling plan 
of polluter letting of Gangkou section in 2003.After the project put into production, the 
main polluter including COD and smoke and solid waste and more. will be in the 
bounds of the total amount controlling. The environment quality of the project area is 
all right, and have more environment capability. 
 
 
 
Page  402
 
 87
Engineering Analysis of The Constructing Project 
The brief of technical process                                                  
Cultivate adult fish in pond 
 
 
Spawning in indoor pond 
 
                        Natural or using hormone 
Fecundation and hatching 
 
Cultivating young fish 
                            Feeding with rotifer ect. 
 
Young fish of 10mm length 
 
 
Middle cultivating in pond 
                          
 Freeding with meaty crumb of  
                                           smallfish and seashell and shellfish 
Young fish of 30-40mm length
 
Page  403
 
 88
Main pollutant procedure & discharge 
A. Constructing period 
1\1fDestroing vegetation in constructing period ,and part water and soil erosion by 
excavating earthwork, a few living waste water during constructing. 
2\1fA few construction garbage and a few living garbage will be brought during 
constructing. 
3\1fDust engendered by constructing and transporting vehicle will bring on part 
atmosphere pollution. 
4\1fNoise engendered by constructing machine of grab and beater and transporting vehicle 
will affect ambient environment.
 
B. Producing period 
1.Production waste water. It is mainly generated in the process of hatching, and 
there are more organic compound and NH
3
-N and more. in it. 
2.Soild waste of remnants feed and fish dejecta and sludge and more during hatching. 
3.Noise generated from equipment of water pump and increasing oxygen machine. 
4.Exhaust gas and waste residue be generated by burning coal boiler. 
5.Living garbage and domestic sewage be generated by employee living. 
 
Main pollutant procedure & discharge 
    content  
types 
Discharging 
fountain 
\1fNo.\1f 
Contamination 
name 
Thickness and 
producing 
amount\1fUnit\1f 
Thickness and 
discharging 
amount\1fUnit\1f 
Constructing Smoke 
—— 
—— 
   Smoking 
amount 
68 ten thousand 
m
3
/a 
68  ten  thousand  
m
3
/a 
SO
2
 
800mg/m
3
\1f0.54t/
a
 
800mg/m
3
\1f0.54t/a 
Atmosphere 
contamination 
Burning coal 
boiler 
Soot 
1000mg/m
3
\1f0.68 
t/a
 
200mg/m
3
\1f0.14t/a 
Discharging 
amount 
1920t/a 1920t/a 
COD
 
200mg/L\1f0.38t/a 100mg/L\1f0.19t/a 
NH
3
-N 30mg/L\1f0.06t/a 
15mg/L\1f0.03t/a 
Living 
sewage 
SS
200m
g
/L\1f0.38t/a
70m
g
/L\1f0.13t/a
Water 
contaminatio
n 
Waste water 
of hatcher
y
  
discharging 
amount 
209\1fm
3
/a 209\1fm
3
/a 
Page  404
 
 89
COD 
70 mg/
L
\1f146.30
t/a
70 mg/L\1f146.30t/a 
Suspending thing
150
/L
\1f313 5
t/
70 mg/L\1f146.30 t/a 
NH
3
-N 
15 mg/L\1f31 t/a 
15 mg/L\1f31 t/a 
  
Phosphate 
0.5mg/L\1f1.0 t/a 
0.5 mg/L\1f1.0 t/a 
Constructing 
Construction and 
living rubbish 
—— —— 
Hatching and 
cultivating 
remnants feed 
and fish dejecta 
and sludge 
5t/a —— 
Boiler  
Cinder  
21.91 t/a 
—— 
Solid rubbish 
Living 
Living garbage 
17.3t/a 
17.3t/a 
Noise 
1.In the constructing period, noise engendered by constructing machine of grab 
and beater will be restricted within max.87dB(A)\1fand be attenuated to 55 
dB(A)in 200m and 47 dB(A) in 500m. 
2.Max.noise of fan and pumb and increasing oxygen machine is 80dB(A) in 
10m\1fand be attenuated to 54dB(A)in 200m and 46dB(A) in 500m. 
Main Ecology influence: 
1. Constructing hatching plant and pond will destroying natural environment and original 
vegetable and tree\1fand engender water and soil erosion. 
2. Dust be produced during constructing will affect nearby sea area environment transitorily by 
rain water forming runoff . 
3. Wastewater of hatching and breeding with using feed and disinfectant will affect nearby sea 
area environment. 
 
 
Analysis of Environmental Effects
 
Page  405
 
 90
Brief analysis of environmental effects during construction\1f 
1. During constructing and transporting, more dust and noise will be produced. But the dust 
and the noise will stop along with the construction ending. 
2. During constructing ponds and plant and house and road and more will destroy 
vegetation and engender water and soil erosion. Thus, we should scleroses and make 
afforestation. 
3. During constructing ,must intensify management for waste water and  
domestic sewage , set up  collect system of sewage, to avoid constructing in rain day\1fand 
reduce the waste water and domestic sewage during constructing.  
4. Castoff be produced during constructing will be carried to appointed place  
and collected to dispose, and affect environment not too. 
Analysis of environmental effects during operation 
1. Exhaust gas and waste residue. Because the coal amount of the boiler using is 85t,and 
uses the anthracite with containing sulfur under 1%.After eliminating dust, the exhaust gas of 
boiler will be discharged by way of chimney (20m high).Amount of cinder is 21.91t/a\1fand 
the cinder will be used to pave road and making brick for constructing, and affect 
environment not too.  
2. After the project put into production, waste water containing organic compound and 
NH
3
-N  ect . will be produced during raising seedling raise, the waste water will be imported 
to the sewage disposal pond by way of raceway, and be discharged in the ebb tide period after 
deposition and degradation and disinfection. Because the tide of Fangchenggang 
circumlittoral belong to normal diurnal tide, tide range is bigger and exchanging ability is 
strong, the sewerage of the project will be discharged by stages, and affect environment not 
too. Domestic sewage of employee be produced about 1920t\1fand be discharged after 
disposing in the cesspool, affect environment not too. 
3. Using medicament cautiously during raising seedling, If needing to use medicament 
,must strictly prohibit to use the medicament be prohibited by nation, insure the sea area and 
environment against pollution. 
4. Remnants feed and fish dejecta and sludge and more. should be made  muck for crop by 
leaching and  sunning. 
5.Fixed number of persons of the project is 32 person\1famount of living garbage is about 
annually. Garbage will be collected to stack, and will be sent to the refuse dump or choosing 
condign place to bury.  
6.Noise be produced during blower and water pump and increasing oxygen machine 
running, above machine must select lower noise equipment or fixing muffler to reduce noise. 
The base of the equipment take damping measure to reduce noise, and noise will not affect 
existence environment around denizen after the noise reduce naturally. 
 
Page  406
 
 91
Measures on Environment Protection and Expected results 
Description 
Types 
Drainage 
(No.) 
Pollution Measures 
Expected 
effect 
Constructing TSP 
Indurating and 
afforestation duly 
Controlling 
effectively 
SO
2
 
Atmospher
e 
pollutant 
 
Boiler 
Smoke 
Eliminating dust and 
decontaminating  
Up to criterion 
and letting 
COD
 
NH
3
-N 
Domestic 
sewage 
SS 
Water 
pollutant 
 
Waste water 
of hatching 
plant 
Seston,NH
3
-
N,ect.eutrophy 
matter 
Importing to the sewage 
disposal pond, and 
letting after depositing 
and degradation and 
disinfecting 
Up to criterion and 
letting 
Constructing 
Garbage of 
constructing and 
living 
Carrying to the refuse 
dump and collecting 
to dispose 
Controlling 
effectively 
Hatching and 
breeding  
remnants feed and 
fish  dejecta and 
sludge 
Making farmyard 
manure after 
disposing 
Comprehensive 
utilization 
Boiler Cinder 
Using to pave road 
and make brick 
Comprehensive 
utilization 
Solid 
pollutant 
Living 
garbage 
Living garbage 
Carrying to the refuse 
dump and collecting 
to dispose 
Controlling 
availability 
Noise 
Noise be produced during blower and water pump and increasing oxygen 
machine running, above machine must select lower noise equipment or fixing 
muffler to reduce noise. The base of the equipment take damping measure to 
reduce noise, and noise will not affect existence environment of residential area 
all around after the noise reduce naturally. 
Others —— 
Page  407
 
 92
Ecology protection measures and expected effects: 
1. During construct the hatchery, must shunning to hag quondam trees, and protect quondam 
shelter forest and other vegetation. 
2.Controlling to use disinfectant and other medicament, waste water be produced during 
hatching and breeding will be let after disinfecting in sewage disposal ,prevent to produce 
seawater pollution and affect seawater environment. 
3. Planting flowers and grasses in the living area, and afforestation properly around the 
hatchery. 
4. Take effective method to protect affect environment of Yushi beach during constructing 
and producing. 
 
Conclu sion and  Suggestion  
Page  408
 
 93
Examine and Approve Idea\1f 
   
1. The content of the report accord with technical criterion ,and evaluation criterion is 
reasonable, evaluation conclusion is believable. The measure of pollution prevention and 
cure were brought forward in the report , it is used a gist of environmental design and 
environmental intendance of the project construction. 
2.The project unit must carry out every measure of pollution prevention and cure  
be brought forward in the report, and insure contamination letting out to accord with 
national ordaining letting out standard. 
3.Gangkou District Environment Protection Bureau must strengthen supervising and  
management for environment protection of the project construction. The project 
environment protection engineering will be went into using formally after checking and 
accepting and to measure up by Fangchenggang Environment Protection Bureau. 
4. Agree the project to construct. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                                            
                                Fangchenggang Environment 
Protection Bureau 
                                    (Cachet) 
Transactor\1fQin Yan  
Aug.13,2003
 
Page  409
 
 94
 
Page  410
 
 95
 
Page  411
Approval and Registry Form of Environment Protection on Construction Project  
Registry Form unit
\1f
Fangchengguang Environmental Scientific Graduate School
  
Registry Form person
\1fLi Li
         
Approval undertaker\1f
     
Project description 
The Marine Fish Hatchery Of Fangchenggang Guangx
i
 
Construction  site
 
Yushitan seacoast of Fangchenggang Qisha town
 
construction scale 
Hatchery plant of  3200 m
2
, pond of 15 ha., produce fries 
of 850 ten thousand. 
Construction  style
 
\01v
New   \1f Rebuild &continuation      \1f Techno-build 
Industry sort 
Seawater aquiculture 0411 
Environment Protection supervised 
style 
\1fCompiling book  
\01v
Compiling form   \1fRegister form 
Total investment 
(10000YUAN) 
1623..8 
environmental protection 
invest
(10000YUAN) 
66.0 
Environmental 
protection inve
st 
rate
\1f%\1f 
4.1 
Project- 
establishing 
Dept. 
Agricultural. Department 
Approved file No. 
No.16[2003] 
Project 
established 
time 
Jun.26,2003 
Construction Project 
Report Warrant 
Dept. 
Fangchenggang City  Environment Protection Bureau 
Approved file No. 
 
Approved time 
 
Name 
Jiaye Aquaculture Integrative 
Exploiture Ltd. 
Tel 
0770- 
2827927 
Name 
Fangchengguang Environmental 
Scientific Graduate School 
Tel 
0770-2825351 
Address 
No.20  Postal Road 
Post 
538001 
Address 
No.3 xingang Road 
Post 
538001 
C
onstruction- 
    unit
 
Legal 
representative 
Qinyaliu 
Person in 
 charge 
Qinyaliu 
Evaluation  
unit 
Certificate No. 
 
Evaluation 
expense
 
 
Environmen
t
 quality  class 
Atmosphere
\1f
Class \1f
GB3095-1996     
Surface water
\1f         Groundwater\1f        Noise:
 Type \1f
GB3093-1993       
Sea water
 \1f
Type II
  GB9097-1997        Soil\1f          Others\1f 
Project site 
condition 
environment 
condition
 
Environmen
t
 sensitivity 
character 
\01‘
   Drinking water source protection district   
\01‘
   Natural protection district         
\01‘
  Famous scenery district              
\01‘
   Plantation and park     
\01‘
   Essential cropland protection district      
\01‘
    Ecology protection district        
\01‘
  Water and soil leave away protection area     
\01‘
 Ecology sensitive and fragile area  
\01‘
   Population dense area                 
\01‘
    Key cultural relic protection area    
\01‘
 ¥
 Lake          
\01‘
Reservoir 
Built + under built 
This project  
Total project 
Contamination 
drainage 
density 
In fact 
drainage 
density 
allowed 
 
general  
drainage  
capacity 
In fact 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
drainage 
density 
predicted
 
 
drainage 
density 
allowed 
 
drainage  
capacity 
reducing 
capacity  
 
drainage  
capacity 
predicted 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
 
reducing 
capacity of  
old and 
new 
section 
drainage  
capacity 
predicted
 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
 
drainage  
in-creasi-
ng 
capacity 
 
decrease amount in 
district balance 
replacement 
waste water
 
     
 
209  209       
 
 
pollutant let out standard 
and control 
Oxyen amount 
 required * 
  
    
100 
100 
146.49 
 
146.49 
  
 
 
 
 
Page  412
 
 
97
Ammonia and 
 nit r oge n * 
    15 
15 
31.06 
 
31.06 
  
 
 
 
 
Suspend substance 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Waster gas 
      68  68 
  
 
 
 
 
Sulfur dioxide 
  
 
 
800 
800 
0.54 
 
0.54 
  
 
 
 
 
Smoke and 
dust 
 
 
 
  200 200 0.68 0.54 0.14 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial 
powder dust  
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Nitrogen and 
oxide 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial solid  
trash 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
o
ther pollutant in relation with 
this project
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Unit\1fy waste gas capacity\1fx104 marked meter3/year\1fwastewater\1fton/year\1fmercury\1fcadmium\1flead, arsenic\1fchromium\1fchloride kg/year\1fo
ther units are all tons\1fwaste gas 
density\1fmilligram/liter\1fWaste gas density milligram/lm 
Notes\1fThis list is written by the evaluation unit and attached on the last page of the report. The last blank is the characteri
stic pollutant. 
Among this\1f\1f5\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f-\1f4\1f\1f\1f6\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f+\1f1\1f-\1f4\1f 
 
 
 
 
Registry Form of Basic Date of Environmental Management Examine and Approve on The Construction Project
 
Project name\1fThe Marine Fish Hatchery Of Fangchenggang Guangx
i
 
Page  413
 
 
98
Sort \1fForecast  
 Year \1f2003 
Project kind\1fNew constructing
   Environmental estimate\1f
Fangchengguang Environmental Scientific Graduate School 
Examine and approve \1fDistrict 
    Industry sort\1f Other    
  Environmental estimate sort\1fReport form
 
Administrative precinct\1fFangchenggang city
    Acid rain controlling area\1f No 
 
Total invest of environment 
protection\1f10000’ yuan\1f 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Waste water 
disposal 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Exhaust gas 
disposal 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Noise disposal 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Virescence 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Other invest of 
environment 
protection 
Total invest 
\1f100000000’yuan\1f 
Environmental estimate 
expense\1f10000’yuan\1f
 
66.0 21.0 
  
45.0 
0 
0.16 
0.8 
Main contamination 
Original letting 
amount 
Newly increased 
letting amount 
Amount scissored by 
new driving old 
Newly increased 
disposing amount 
Contamination letting 
Scissoring amount 
disposed 
Adding and reducing 
letting amount 
Sewerage amount      
ten thousand ton/year 
0 209  0 
0 
0 
0 
209 
COD        
ten thousand ton/year 
0 146.49  0 
0 
146.49 
0 
146.49 
NH
3
-N         
ten thousand ton/year 
0 31.06  0 
0 
31.06 
0 
31.06 
Petroleum       
 ten thousand ton/year 
0 0  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
SO
2 
    
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0.54  0 
 
0.54 
0 
0.54 
Smoke        
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0.68  0  0.54 0.14 
0.54 
0.14 
Dust          
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
Nitric oxide     
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Page  414
 
 
99
 ten thousand ton/year 
Solid castoff   
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor: Li Li 
 
Page  415
 
 
100
Annex one 
 
 
 
 
Monitoring Report of Environmental 
Monitoring Station Fangchenggang 
Guangxi 
Fang Environment Monitoring\1fwater\1fNo.073[2003] 
 
 
 
 
 
Task name\1fSeawater actuality monitoring of the marine fish hatchery 
Consignor\1fJiaye Aquaculture Integrative Exploiture Ltd. 
Monitoring sort\1fEntrusting monitor  
Report date\1fAug.10,2003 
 
 
 
Fangchenggang Environmental Monitoring Station 
Page  416
 
 
101
 
 
Be entrusted with Jiaye Aquaculture Integrative Exploiture Ltd. , Fangchenggang 
Environmental Monitoring Station monitor the current coastwise seawater quality of 
Qisah town Yushitan seacoast in Aug. 10, 2003. 
A. Monitoring site 
Selected a monitoring site at coastwise water area of Yushitan seacoast\1fand 
sampling a water sample of surface water. 
B. Sample state 
The sample is not any color and smell. 
C. Monitoring item and according to technology 
Monitoring item include water temperature, PH, turbidity, chromaticity , dissolved 
oxygen, NH3-N, nitrite-N, nitrate-N\1fchloride\1fCu\1fplumbum\1fcadmium\1ftotal 
cyanide\1fvolatilization hydroxybenzene\1fpetroleum\1factivity phosphate\1ftotal 
arsenic\1fHg\1fSexivalent chromium(Cr
6+
) ect.. 
Every monitoring item according to criterion and using equipment in table 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  417
 
 
102
 
 
 
Table 1\1fMonitoring according to technology and using equipment 
Sampling 
according as 
1.Oceanic Monitoring Criterion (GB17378-1998) 
2.Surface Water and Sewerage Monitoring Technical Criterion (HJ/T91-20020) 
Using equipment 
Analyzing 
item 
Analyzing 
method(source) 
Lowest 
detection 
Equipment name 
Type 
Serial 
number 
water 
temperature 
Thermometer method 
(GB13195-91) 
0.1\1f 
Thermometer Stick  045 
PH Glass 
electrode 
method 
(GB6920-86 
0.01PH 
Exact PH meter 
PHS-3C 
006 
Turbidity
 
Eye comparative 
Turbidity\1fWater and 
waste water monitoring 
analyzing method\1fThird 
edition\1f\1f 
0.1degree —— —— 
—— 
Chromaticity 
Platinum and cobalt 
colorimetry\1fWater and 
waste water monitoring 
analyzing method\1fThird 
edition\1f\1f 
1degree —— 
—— 
—— 
NH3-N
 
Hypo-bromate oxidation 
method 
\1fGB17378.4-1998\1f 
0.4X10
-3
mg/L
Grating 
spectrophotomete
r 
722 010 
Nitrite-N
 
Naphthyl second diamine 
spectrophotometry 
(GB17378.4-1998) 
0.3X10
-3
mg/L
Grating 
spectrophotomete
r 
722 010 
Nitrate-N
 
Cadmium pole reduction 
method(GB17378.4-1998) 
0.6X10
-3
mg/L
Grating 
spectrophotomete
r 
722 010 
DO 
Iodimetry\1fGB7489-87\1f 
0.2mg/L Buret 25ml 
126 
Pb 
Atom absorption 
spectrophotometry\1fGB74
75-87\1f 
0.01 mg/L 
WFX—1E2Atom 
absorption 
spectrophotomete
r 
WFX—
1E2 
093 
Page  418
 
 
103
Cu 
 
Atom absorption 
spectrophotometry\1fGB74
75-87\1f 
0.001 mg/L 
WFX—1E2 Atom 
absorption 
spectrophotomete
r 
WFX—
1E2 
093 
Cr 
Atom absorption 
spectrophotometry\1fGB74
75-87\1f 
0.001 mg/L 
WFX—1E2 Atom 
absorption 
spectrophotomete
r 
WFX—
1E2 
093 
Cr
6+
 
two benzene and two 
hydrazine of acyl of 
carbon 
spectrophotometry\1fGB74
67-87\1f 
0.004 mg/L 
UV 
spectrophotomete
r 
752C 012 
Total arsenic
 
Base sulphurses take the 
place of the amino formic 
acid silver photometry 
method\1fGB7485-87\1f 
0.007 mg/L 
Grating 
spectrophotomete
r 
722 010 
Hg 
cold atom 
fluorescence\1fWater and 
waste water monitoring 
analyzing method\1fFourth 
edition\1f\1f 
0.00005 mg/L
Intelligence cold 
atom fluorescence 
measure Hg 
instrument 
SYG—I 024 
Total 
cyanide
 
Different nicotinic acid—
barbitone acid photometry 
method\1fWater and waste 
water monitoring 
analyzing method\1fFourth 
edition\1f\1f 
0.001 mg/L 
Grating 
spectrophotomete
r 
722 010 
volatilization 
hydroxybenze
ne 
4—amido antipyrine 
extraction photometry 
method\1fGB7490-87\1f 
0.002 mg/L 
UV 
spectrophotomete
r 
752C 012 
petroleum 
Non-dispersion infrared 
method\1fGB/T16488-89\1f 
0.02 mg/L 
Daojin oil titer 
meter 
POC—
100 
028 
Chloride 
Silver nitrate titration 
method\1fGB11896-89\1f 
10 mg/L 
Buret 
50ml 
125 
Activity 
phosphate
 
Molybdenum  Stibium 
spectrophotometry 
method\1fGB11893-89\1f 
0.01 mg/L 
UV 
spectrophotomete
r 
752C 012 
\1f\1f\1f 
Weather chromatogram 
method\1fGB17378\1f 
1.0X10
-6
mg/L
  
 
DDT 
Weather chromatogram 
method\1fGB17378\1f 
3.8X10
-6
mg/L
  
 
Page  419
 
 
104
Malathion 
Weather chromatogram 
method\1fGB17378\1f 
6.4X10
-6
mg/L
  
 
 
D. Quality controlling  
1\1fAnalyzing personnel must have eligible certificate with the item. 
2\1fThe monitoring equipment are all verified up to grade, and in the verification 
period of validity. 
3\1fAnalyzing personnel take out discretionarily sample upwards of ten percent to 
add mark reclaiming and parallel sample analyzing , quality controlling and passing 
rate all arrive at normative request.  
 
 
E. Monitoring Result 
 
 
 
Table 2\1fDetection of seawater collected from the Yushitan coastal area in Qisha 
town, 
 Fangchenggang city, Guangxi Province
 
Number  
Index  
Standard value  
1 water 
temperature\1f 
22.5 
2 PH 
6.94 
3 DO 
7.0 
4 Turbidity 
2.0 
5 
color, smell, flavor, 
No special color and peculiar smell 
6 NH3-N\1fmg/L 
0.039 
7 Nitrite-N\1fmg/L 
0\1f001 
8 Nitrate-N\1fmg/L 
0\1f066 
9 Chloride\1fmg/L 
1\1f77X10
4
 
10 Activity 
phosphate\1fmg/L 
0\1f01L 
11 
total coliform\1fnumber/L 
< 500\1f/L 
12 
feacal coliform\1fnumber/L 
< 140\1f/L 
Page  420
 
 
105
13 
Mercury(Hg)\1fmg/L 
                0.000051L 
14 
Cadmium(Cd)\1fmg/L 
                0.001L 
15 
Lead(Pb)\1fmg/L 
                0.01L 
16 
sexavalent 
chromium(Cr
6+
)\1fmg/L 
                0.0041L 
17 
Total chromium (Cr)\1fmg/L 
 
18 
Arsenic(As)\1fmg/L 
0.007L 
19 
Copper(Cu)\1fmg/L 
0.001L 
20 
Zinc(Zn)\1fmg/L 
*0.047 
21 
Silicon(Si)\1fmg/L 
* 
22 
Cyanide\1fmg/L 
0.001L 
23 
Volatile phenol\1fmg/L 
0.002L 
24 
Petroleum\1fmg/L 
0.02 
25 
Benzene hexachloride\1fmg/L 
\1f 
26 
Dichloro-diphenyl-
trichloroethane\1fmg/L 
\1f 
27 
Malathion, mg/L 
\1f 
28 
Methyl thiophos\1fmg/L 
 
29 
Rogor\1fmg/L 
 
30 
Polychlorobiphenyl\1fmg/L 
 
Note: L indicated the data is lower than the minimum value with the detected method 
* cited from Guangxi Marine Research Institute 
\1f undetectable 
 
F. Evaluating Result 
The hatchery ground should be built in the coastal areas without any serious 
seawater pollution, and without any industrial and residential area nearby. The surface 
seawater was collected from Fangchenggang city environmental monitoring stations, 
and the analyzed result are showed in table1. Comparing with the issued standard of 
national cultivation using seawater quality (table 2), it is indicated that monitoring 
indexes of the analysis seawater quality are lower than the standard seawater quality 
Page  421
 
 
106
promulgated by nation.
 
Generally say, the seawater quality in this sea area is up to the 
national seawater standard (table 3), and it can be used for seawater fish hatchery. 
 
   
 
 
Table 3\1fThe Seawater Quality Criterion for
 
Aquiculture  
\1fNY5052—
2001\1f
 
Number  
Index  
Standard value 
1 
color, smell, flavor 
it should no be with special color and 
peculiar smell 
2 total 
coliform, 
number/L 
 ”
5000, it should be lower than 500 for  
aquatic product for fresh food 
3 feacal 
coliform\1fnumber/L 
 ”
2000, it should be lower than 140  for 
aquatic product for fresh food 
4 Mercury(Hg)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.0002 
5 Cadmium(Cd)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.005 
6 Lead(Pb)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.05 
7 Sexivalent 
chromium(Cr
6+
)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.01 
8 
Total chromium (Cr)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.1 
9 Arsenic(As)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.03 
10 Copper(Cu)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.01 
11 Zinc(Zn)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.1 
12 Silicon(Si)\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.02 
13 Cyanide\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.005 
14 Volatile 
phenol\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.005 
15 Petroleum\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.05 
16 Benzene 
hexachloride\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.001 
17 Dichloro-diphenyl-
trichloroethane\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.00005 
18 Malathion, 
mg/L 
 ”
0.0005 
19 Methyl 
thiophos\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.0005 
Page  422
 
 
107
20 Rogor\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.1 
21 Polychlorobiphenyl\1fmg/L 
 ”
0.00002 
 
Page  423
 
 
108
 
 
                                                        NO\1f  D200217  
 
 
 
 
 
REGISTRATION FORM FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF 
THE PROPOSED PROJECT 
(Tentative ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Title
:          
Marine Cage Aquiculture,
 
Fangchenggang Municipality, Guan
gxi 
Implementing Agency: Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Development Co, 
Ltd, Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Preparation: November 11, 2003 
Formulated by: National Environmental Protection Agency 
 
 
 
Page  424
 
 
109
 
Project title 
Deep-water Cage Aquiculture, Fangchenggang Municipality, 
Guangxi 
Implementing 
Agency 
Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Development Co Ltd, 
Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi 
Legal Person 
Wei Linzhen 
Liaison 
Officer 
Shi Yongjian 
Address 
Jingang Road Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 
Telephone 0770-2827927 Fax 
0770-2827927 
Postalcode 
538001 
Construction Site 
Inshore area adjacent to Tiantangpo, Qisha Town, Fangchenggang Municipality 
Construction 
Type 
Newly Built
\01v
Rebuilding or 
Enlarging Built
\1f
Technical 
Rebuilding
\1f 
Business Type 
and Code 
Marine 
aquiculture 0411 
Coverage 
Space\1f
m
2
\1f 
 Floor 
Space 
\1f
m
2
\1f 
 
Total Investment 
(
million yuan RMB) 
6.969 
Of which investment for 
environmental protection 
(
million yuan RMB) 
 Investment 
proportion 
 
Anticipated Date 
of Operation 
October 2004 
 
Estimated Annual 
Operational Days 
360       
I. Project components and size:  
to build 20 cages for marine aquiculture, each cage is 40 m. in perimeter and 6 – 8 
m. in  
depth. A marine surface area of about 7,000 m2 will be employed.  
 
 
 
 
II. Building materials and major facilities (including boilers and power generators, etc.): 
to be  
specified 
 
 
 
III. Water and power consumption 
Item Consumption 
Item 
Consumption 
Water (ton/yr.) 
 
Fuel (ton/yr.) 
 
Electricity 
(Kw/yr.) 
 Gas 
(m3/yr.) 
 
Coal (ton/yr.) 
 
Others 
 
Page  425
 
 
110
IV. Waste water, discharge rate and discharging arrangement: 
 
 
 
 
V. Brief description of the surroundings:  
The project is to be built at the inshore area with the 10 m. deep contour line along 
Tiantangpo, Qisha Town. This area has the subtropical inshore hydrological features, 
with an annual averaged water temperature of 23 ‘c,  and regular whole day tide with 
a fluctuation of 2.2 m. A small sized marine aquiculture is existing in this area. Water 
quality conforms with Grade A specifications. 
 
VI. Brief description of the technological flow to be employed (must specify waste 
water, waste  
gas and waste residue to be discharged and/or noises if available):  
      Figurines to be nursed at water ponds or inshore small cages before caging culture 
-
\01
 
Fed with low value small fishes plus manufactured feed 
\01
            
       Individual body weight of 200 ~250g. 
\01
                            
       Access to cage culture 
\01
 
       Fed with formulated feed plus low value small fishes 
\01
 
       Marketing body weight 
\01
 
       Harvest and marketing 
 
 
 
VII. Pollution control measures to be undertaken (including both the construction 
period and  
operational stage):  
Major risks to affect the environmental surroundings are from the feeds and drugs. 
Therefore,  
a strict sampling and test system is to be established to ensure that each batch of the 
purchased feed and drug is good enough and those with problems will be rejected. 
    A rational feeding program will also be established to avoid over feeding. 
 
VIII. Comments by the supervision agency:  
Agree to build the project; Drugs prohibited by the state are strictly prohibited 
during culture. 
 
 
 
 
Processing officer (signature): Jin Yan                Fangchenggang Municipal 
Environment  
                                               Protection Bureau (seal) 
                                               August 13, 2003 
Page  426
 
 
111
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Page  427
 
 
112
 
 
 
FORMALIZED REPORT ON ENVIRONMENTAL 
IMPACT BY THE PROPOSED PROJECT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Title: Aquatic Deep Freezing Processing Factory, Fangchenggang 
Municipality, Guangxi 
Implementing Agency: Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Development Co. Ltd, 
Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Preparation: August 11, 2003 
Formulated by: National Environment Protection Agency
 
 
 
Page  428
 
 
113
Responsibility List 
 
Evaluation unit:  Fangchengguang Environmental Scientific Graduate School 
 
Post No.:National Environmental Estimating Certificate Second No.2916 
 
Person in charge of Evaluation unit: Lanyan  
 
Person in charge of the project: Jiangchaowei (environment evaluation post 
No.13844) 
 
 
List of Evaluators 
Name Professional 
title 
Specialty 
No. Of professional 
certificate  
Responsibility 
Lan Yan 
Engineer 
Environmental 
impact 
evaluation 
Huanpinggangzhenzi 
B29160004 
Check and 
examine 
Zheng 
Lihua 
Engineer Environmental 
impact 
evaluation 
Huanpinggangzhenzi 
B29160007 
Check and 
examine 
Jiang 
Chaowei 
Assistant 
engineer 
Environmental 
impact 
evaluation 
Huanpinggangzhenzi 
B29160016 
Preparation 
Li Li 
Assistant 
engineer 
Environmental 
impact 
evaluation 
Huanpinggangzhenzi 
B29160015 
Preparation 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  429
 
 
114
General Introduction to the Project 
Project 
description
 
Aquatic deep-freezing processing plant, Fangchenggang Municipality, Guangxi
 
Construction 
unit
 
Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural Development Co. Ltd, Fangchenggang 
Municipality, Guangxi 
Project legal 
representative
 
Wei Linzhen 
Linkman 
Shi Yongjian 
Address 
Jngang Road No.20 Fangchenggang Guangxi, Yuanyi Integrated Agricultural 
Development Co. Lted 
Telephone
 0770-2827927 
Fax. 
0770-2827927 
Post 
538001 
Construction site
 
Industrial Park, Yuzhouping, the Harbor District, Fangchenggang Municipality 
Project- stablishing 
Dept.
 
Ministry of Agriculture 
Warrant file No.
Nong (weijing) yubianzi (2001) 16 
Construction kind 
New 
Line sort and 
code
 
Aquatic deep freezing 
processing 0411 
Occupied area 
 (m
2
) 
30000 
Afforestation 
area\1f
M
2
\1f 
4200 
Total invest 
(10000Yuan RMB)
 
5337.8 
Among which:  
environmental 
protection invest
(10000YUANRM
B)
 
98.6 
The rate of 
environmental 
protection invest 
1.8% 
Evaluation expense 
(10000Yuan RMB
\1f 
1.6 
Estimated Date 
of Production
 
Dec.2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  430
 
 
115
Project Components and Size 
1.Project size: 
The project is planned to make a total investment of RMB. 53.378 million yuan 
to build an aquatic deep freezing processing plant with a designed annual 
capacity of 6,500 tons for deep freezing, 550 tons for frozen drying and 9,000 
tons for ice making. The plant will employ 235 permanent staff and 1,000 part 
time workers during busy seasons. 
2.Major components: 
Pre-treatment workshops: 720 m2; 
Processing workshops: 600 m2; 
Instant freezing workshop: 610 m2; 
Sterilizing workshop for packing materials: 234 m2; 
Packaging workshop: 400 m2; 
Cool storage with capacity of 1,600 tons: 2,000 m2; 
Constant temperature storage with capacity of 200 tons: 240 m2; 
Ice storage: 350 m2; 
Ice making workshop: 105 m2; 
Frozen drying workshop: 600 m2; 
Warehouse: 143 m2; 
Boiler room and power switching room: 70 m2; 
Machine room: 300 m2; 
Sewage treatment facility: aseptic pond of 360 m2; 
Office building with laboratory rooms: 360 m2; 
Clothes changing and sterilizing rooms: 480 m2; 
Staff dormitories: 180 m2; 
Other buildings: 1,408 m2; 
Power supply facilities, road within plant campus and landscaping; 
Other auxiliary facilities; 
Equipment installation. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  431
 
 
116
 
Existing pollution problems and major environmental risks 
  The proposed project is to be built within the Yuzhouping Industrial Park of the Harbor 
District. It neighbors with the Fangchenggang Bay at the East side. 2 Km 
apart at the West site the Nanling Chemical Co. Ltd and other two 
factories under construction, i.e. the Hengshun Furniture Factory 
and the Zhonggang Fiberglass Processing Factory. North of the Nanling Chemical Co. 
exists  
the Yuzhouping Plastic Factory. 2.5 Km apart at the Southwest sits the Fangchenggang 
Municipal High School and the Harbor District Hospital. Within 500 m 
around the proposed site, there lives no permanent urban dwellers. 
Major environmental risks include: 
1. 
The Nanling Chemical Co. Ltd generates acidic wastewater in its production. The 
company has employed the waste water recycling technology with treatment. 
Under normal conditions, no acidic waster water is discharged. However, there 
exist accident risks. 
2.  The Hengshen Furniture Factory and Zhonggang Fiberglass Factory may 
generate dusts and noises during construction period. 
3. 
The plastic factory makes noises and odor during operation. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  432
 
 
117
Brief 
Introduction
 to Natural and Social Environment
 
A.Natural conditions (topography, geomorphology, geology, climate, meteorology, 
hydrology, vegetation and bio-diversity) 
1. 
Geographic location: The proposed project seats within Fangcenggang 
Municipality which is located at the southwest end of the nation’s coastal line at 
108 degrees 20 seconds east longitude and 21 degrees 37 seconds north latitude. 
It faces the North Bay at the south, adjacent with Nannin Prefecture at the north, 
links with Qinzhou Municipality at the east and neighbors with Vietnam at the 
southwest. 
2.  Topography, geomorphology and geology: The project site is surrounded by hills 
with landforms leaning from northwest to southeast. The appeared stratum is 
dominated by the Jurassic system formed by sandstones and mudstones. Major 
soils include coastal sediment, clay and sandy clay. 
3.  Climate and meteorology: The Harbor District is at the southern foot of the 
Shiwan Mountains facing the North Bay. It sees the typical subtropical monsoon 
climate with abundant rainfall and solar energy. Annual temperature is rather 
high with moderate variation between seasons. Relative humidity is high, 
averaged at 81%. The annual mean temperature is averaged at 22.6’ while the 
annual mean rainfall at 2,314.5 mm. Annual dominant wind comes from NNE 
followed by SSW. The strongest wind comes from E with the maximum velocity 
of 34 m/s. Yearly mean velocity is averaged at 3.1 m/s. The visiting tropical 
storms are always accompanied by strong wind, rainstorm, high tide and strong 
waves, which may cause natural calamities.  
4. 
marine hydrology: Tide at the Fangchenggang Bay is the regular whole day tide. 
Irregular half-day tide only appears during lesser tidal period. The maximum tidal 
height is 5.54 m and the minimum is –0.29 m with the average of 2.27 m.  
5. 
Bio-diversity: The project site is surrounded by small hills with good vegetations 
formed by pines, eucalyptus and Chinese silvergrass, etc.. About 2 Km apart at 
northwest sits a small reservoir where carps are cultured. The southern coastal 
area sees a vigorous mangrove plantation of about 500 mu (not in the designated 
mangrove reserve zone). The adjacent marine waters have a good variety of 
plankton and phytoplankton including more than 500 species of fishes, 200 some 
species of shrimps and over 20 species of crabs. In addition, the coastal beach 
also has rich bio-resources including oysters and clans.  
 
B.Socio-environmental conditions 
  Fangchenggang covers a total area of 6,181 Km2, of which the city proper occupies 
about 17 Km2. It has a total population of 780,000 people, of whom the urban 
dwellers account for 130,000.In 2002, its GDP was RMB. 7.09 billion yuan, of which 
the primary industry accounts for an added value of 2.088 billion yuan, the secondary 
industry for 2.163 billion yuan and the tertiaryindustry for 2.839 billion yuan. The 
Harbor District where the proposed project is to be seated has a total area of 37,762 
hectares with a city proper of 5 Km2. Its population is 107,000 and GDP was 670.89 
million yuan in 2002 including a gross industry output of 22.46 million yuan. 
  Fangchenggang is a deep water port at the southwest end of the nation’s coastal 
line. It is the  
Page  433
 
 
118
  largest port in Guangxi and one of the nation’s 19 most important ports. It has 27 
docks of which 11 is deep enough for 10,000 tonnage vessels and larger. Its 
warehouses have a total floor space of over 700,000 m2. Its annual loading and 
unloading capacity exceeds 12 million tons, that fulfilled 11.16 million tons in 2002. 
  Major industries in Fangchenggang include communication, transportation, tourism, 
storage, ship building and repair, marine fishing, marine aquiculture, aquatic 
processing, agriculture, building materials, timber, sugar refinery, foodstuff and 
beverage. Side occupations include rubber,grass waving, tea processing, animal 
husbandry and fresh water aquiculture. 
  Fangchenggang has 5 research institutions, 59 middle schools and 320 primary 
schools, of which 9 middle and primary schools are located within the Harbor 
District. The municipality has fairly good economic situation and living conditions, 
rather well developed infrastructures, medical care, education and public health 
utilities. Major scenic spots include the CelestialMountain, Paradise Beach, General’s 
Ridge, Saddle Shaped Mountain and Ancient Fortress. 
  Within the evaluated area, there exist no historical relics to be protected. 
   
Current status of environmental quality 
Current quality status of the surrounding environment at the project site and major 
problems ( atmosphere, ground surface water, underground water, sound and 
ecological environment ) 
1.Air quality of the environmental atmosphere 
Data from the municipal environment monitoring stations proves that concentration 
of the total suspending granules, sulphur oxidite and nitrogen oxidite at the 
environmental atmosphere reaches to Grade II standards of the National 
Environmental Air Quality Standard ( GB3095-1996 ), that means the 
environmental atmosphere is in good condition. 
2.Nearby inshore marine water quality 
Data from the municipal environment monitoring stations indicates that test results 
on PH value, SS, soluble oxygen, non-organic nitrogen, non-organic phosphate, 
hexachromium, petroleum oils, heavy metals, arsenium, mercury etc. reach to 
Category II standards of the National Marine Water Quality Standard ( GB3097-
1997), which conforms that the requirements by the nearby regional functions can 
be met. 
3.Surface and ground water quality 
Data from the municipal environment monitoring stations indicates that the major 
elements and factors subject to monitor and test reach to Category III standards of 
the National Environmental Surface Water Standard ( GB 3838-2002 ) and 
Category III standards of the National Ground Water Quality Standard ( GB/T 
14848-93 ) for the surface water and ground water respectively. 
4.Sound environment quality 
Data from the municipal environment monitoring stations indicates that quality 
control on environmental noises reaches to Category II standards of the National 
Urban Environmental Noise Standard (GB 3096-93 ). 
5.Ecological environment 
The site is located within an industrial development zone. The surrounding hills are 
dominated by man-made vegetations. The nearby sea has an average ecological 
environment  
Page  434
 
 
119
with a rather limited variety of plankton but a good variety of phytoplankton. In 
addition, at the nearby beach there exist about 500 mu of mangrove. 
 
Major targets in environment protection 
1.Environmental atmosphere and noises 
Surrounding environment for the municipal high school and urban dwellers 
should have atmospheric air in quality of Grade II standards of the National 
Environmental Air Quality Standard ( GB 3095-96 ) and environmental noises 
controlled to Category II standards of the National Urban Environmental Noise 
Standard ( GB 3096-93 ). 
2.Environmental water 
Nearby inshore marine water should be in conformity of Category II standards 
of the National Marine Water Quality Standard (GB 3097-1997 ). 
3.Ecological system formed by the nearby mangrove should be well protected. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  435
 
 
120
Applicable Standards in Evaluation 
  For environmental quality: 
1.National Environmental Air Quality Standard ( GB 3095-96 ), Grade II 
2.National Marine Water Quality Standard ( GB 3097-1997), Category II  
3.National Environmental Surface Water Quality Standard ( GB 3838-2002 ), 
Category III 
4.National Ground Water Quality Standard ( GB/T 14848-93 ), Category III 
5.National Urban Environmental Noise Standard ( GB 3096-93 ), Category II 
 For waste displacement: 
1.National Atmospheric Pollutants from Boilers Release Standard (GB 13271-
2001 ), Category II, Timing Section II 
2.National Aggregate Waste Water Discharge Standard (GB 8978-1996 ), Grade 
I 
3.National Noise Control Standard for Industrial Enterprises within Factory 
Campus ( GB 12348-90 ), Category II 
4.National Noise Limiting Values for Civil Construction Site ( GB 12523-90 )   
  
  
Aggregate control targets
: 
Controlled pollutants displacement targets and release amount ( Harbor District, 2002) 
     
Pollutants Controlled 
targets 
Actual release in 
2002(ton) 
Release by the 
project (ton) 
Balance 
(ton) 
Chemical oxygen 
requirement  
  1400 
  86.23 
  1.0 
 1312.77  
Ammonia nitride 
   20 
  19.56 
   1.52 
   -1.08 
Smoke dust 
  550 
  85.42 
   0.14 
  464.44 
Industrial solid 
refuses 
  770 
 390 
  30 
  350 
  Major pollutants released by the proposed project are predicted to be 1.0 t/a of COD, 
1.52 t/a of ammonia nitride, 0.14 t/a of smoke dust and 0.87 t/a of SO2. According to 
the controlled pollutant displacement targets set by the Harbor District government set 
in 2003, the major pollutants released by the project including COD, smoke dust and 
SO2 are all well controlled within the limitation of the targets. Ammonia nitride 
displacement goes beyond the limitation of the district but still remains in control 
target of the municipality. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  436
 
 
121
 
 
Engineering Analysis of the Project 
Briefing on technological flow 
1.Aquatic processing technological flow 
Raw materials are fed into the fully enclosed pre-treatment workshop with 
temperature of 15’c, where they are tested, rinsed and graded before feeding into the 
pre-cooling storage with temperature below 15’c. The pre-cooled raw materials are fed 
to different processing lines. Fishes are delivered to the fish processing line for scale 
and viscera removal before individual freezing or for head, scale and viscera removal, 
and cutting before instant freezing.Shrimps are delivered to the shrimp processing line 
for individual freezing, or for frozen headless shrimps or frozen peeled shrimps. Crabs 
are delivered to the crab processing line for cleaning and rinsing, shell removal, cutting 
and cooking before instant freezing. Squid and cuttlefish are processed in the pre-
treatment workshop by removal of head, skin and viscera and then cutting before 
instant freezing and vacuum packing. Deep frozen products are checked and packed 
before cold storage. 
According to the designed production scheme, major production technological flows 
are divided into two parts as follows: 
1.1 Technological flow for instant freezing: 
Raw fish/shrimp/crab 
\01
 Raw material receiving workshop 
\01
 washing and 
rinsing ( waste water disposal ) 
\01
 Rinse by spray of ozone water ( 1 – 2 
minutes) 
\01
 Grading 
\01
 Removal of heads/shells/scales/viscera 
\01
 Cutting ( 
fish/crab ) 
\01
 Pre-cooling 
\01
 Instant freezing 
\01
 Weighing 
\01
 Ice coating 
\01
 
Packing 
\01
 Sampling 
\01
 Storage 
1.2 Technological flow for freezing drying: 
Raw material receiving 
\01
 washing and rinsing ( waste water disposal ) 
\01
 Removal 
of shell, head and skin 
\01
 Rinsing by ozone water 
\01
 Grading 
\01
 Instant freezing 
\01
 
Placing in dry tray 
\01
 Freezing drying 
\01
 Weighing 
\01
 Packing 
\01
 Storage 
2.Technological flow for ice making: 
Fresh water 
\01
 Container filling 
\01
 Placing in ice making pond 
\01
 Cooling 
\01
 Ice 
\01
 
Dumping out 
\01
 Storage  
3.Technological flow for sewage treatment: 
Wastewater from the plant is largely discharged at the stations of pre-treatment, 
washing, rinsing and cutting. Such sewage contains meat, shell and bone scraps, fat and 
protein with high concentration of SS and organic matters. Taking into consideration 
the situation of COD and variable rate of flow, recovery and/or disposal of the rejected 
substances need to be well arranged while the final treatment of the sewage employs 
the technology of anaerobic treatment and contact oxidization. The whole process is 
formed by the grizzly screen pond, primary precipitation pond, contact oxidization 
pond, secondary precipitation pond, sterilizing pond and waste mud pond. The sewage 
treatment ground is separate from the processing plant, which will be built into the 
semi-underground type. Its operation causes no affection to the surroundings. Removal 
rate of BOD5 is targeted at not less than 80% (reduced from 200 mg/L at inlet to 50 
mg/L at outlet) and the rate of COD and SS at not less than 81% and 80% respectively. 
  
Page  437
 
 
122
Technological flow for sewage treatment is designed by the environment protection agency 
as follows: 
40% back flow  
-------------------------------------------------              V                      
V 
 
Sewage 
\01
 grizzly screen pond 
\01
 Primary precipitation 
\01
 Contact oxidization 
\01
Secondary   
pond                   pond     precipitation 
                          Pond 
                            V 
        ---------------------------------------------- 
  V                         V 
Mud drying             Sterilizing 
   V                    pond 
Shipment                   V 
                         Release 
  Civil works for sewage treatment include the grizzly screen pond, primary precipitation 
pond, contact oxidization pond, secondary precipitation pond, sterilizing pond and waste 
mud pond. Equipment to be employed includes pumps, grizzly screens, filtration screen 
and materials, pipes, air blowers, noise silencers and mud moisture separators. 
 
Critical pollution points: 
1.During construction period 
1.1 Execution of construction and transportation operations cause increase of SS in partial 
atmosphere to affect the air quality; 
1.2 Building operations and equipment installation make mechanical noises while various 
machines are operated; 
1.3 Civil construction generates certain amount of building refuses. 
2.During operational period 
2.1 waste air: Boilers consume diesel oil and generate smoke and sulphur oxydite; 
2.2 waste water:  
2.2.1 Aquatic processing consumes about 100,000 tons of water per annum; 
2.2.2 Domestic sewage from the employees is about 0.35 ton per day; 
2.3 Solid refuses 
2.3.1 Mud and sand from pre-treatment of the aquatic products is about 0.1 ton. per day; 
2.3.2 Domestic garbage from the employees is about 0.5 ton per day; 
2.3.3 Aquatic processing generates about 12,000 tons of residues such as shells, heads 
and viscera etc. per annum, which will be sold to local fish meal mills; 
2.4 Noises: Machines like dryers, freezers and air compressors make noises during 
operation with the maximum value of 95 dB (A); 
2.5 Odor: Residues and waste water from processing generates awful smell; 
2.6 Liquid ammonia is used as the cooling agent during the operational period. About 20 
tons of liquid ammonia needs to be stored. Such a dangerous chemical implies 
potential safety risks. 
Page  438
 
 
123
                                     
Output of the major pollutants and the estimated release rate 
1. 
Air borne pollutants 
Source    
Pollutant 
Concentration and 
output prior to treatment 
Releasing 
concentration and 
rate 
 
Construction 
period 
Dust Small 
amount  Small 
amount 
 
Boilers Displacement 
173,000 
m3 
173,000 
m3  
 
Smoke 
80 mg/m3 & 0.14 t/a 
80 mg/m3 & 0.14 
t/a or less 
 
 Sulphur 
oxydite 
500 mg/m3 & 0.87 t/a 
500 mg/m3 & 0.87 
t/a or less 
 
2. 
Water borne pollutants 
Source Pollutants 
Concentration 
and 
output Prior to 
treatment  
Releasing 
concentration and 
rate 
 
Waste water 
from production 
Amount 100,000 
t/a 
100,000t/a 
 
 
COD 
400 mg/L & 40 t/a 
100 mg/L & 10 t/a 
or less 
 
 Ammonia 
nitride 
60 mg/L & 6 t/a 
15 mg/L & 1.5 t/a 
or less 
 
 
SS 
300 mg/L & 30 t/a 
70 mg/L & 0.7 t/a 
or less 
 
Domestic 
sewage 
Amount 1,518 
t/a 
1,518 
t/a 
 
 
COD  
300 mg/L & 0.46 t/a 
100 mg/L & 0.15 
t/a or less 
 
 Ammonia 
nitride 
30 mg/L & 0.05 t/a 
15 mg/L & 0.02 t/a 
or less 
 
 
 
SS 
200 mg/L & 0.3 t/a 
70 mg/L & 0.11 t/a 
 
3. Solid 
refuses 
Sources 
Pollutants 
Concentration and output 
prior to treatment 
Releasing 
concentration and 
rate 
 
Construction 
period 
Building 
refuses 
     -- 
   -- 
 
Workshops Mud 
and 
sand 
30 t/a  
30 t/a 
 
Living quarters 
garbage 
105 t/a 
105 t/a 
 
4. Noises 
During construction, machines and vehicles make noises to affect the 
environment with the maximum of 100 dB(A) but it diminishes to 60 dB(A) 
apart from 500 m.s. 
During the operational stage, operation of the machines makes noises with the 
maximum of 95 dB(A). It diminishes to 61 dB(A) by a distance of 50 m and 
further to 51 dB(A) by 150 m.s. 
Page  439
 
 
124
5. Dangerous 
chemicals 
Liquid ammonia used as the cooling agent is a dangerous chemical. It’s 
flammable with strong odor. It generates heat when solutes into water. It’s 
alkali and can react radically with acids. It’s corrosive to aluminum, copper, 
zinc and their alloys. It’s very dangerous to eyes, skins and respiratory tract. 
Liquid ammonia evaporates very fast and over dosage of its steam entered into 
human body can cause areo-emphysema. Therefore, once it emerges any 
leakage, it will cause heavy affection on the surrounding environment and even 
endanger people’s health and life. 
 
Major ecological impact: 
1. Wastewater from production is discharged to the nearby sea and can 
contaminate to some extent marine water. Thus the nearby marine environment 
and water quality are affected. 
2. Without proper disposal, mud from production process and domestic garbage 
can cause affection on ecological environment. 
3. Once leakage accident emerges, liquid ammonia is very dangerous to the 
surrounding environment. 
 
 
Environmental Impact Analysis  
Page  440
 
 
125
Environmental impact during construction period: 
1.  The project site is the implementing agency’s own land which has already been 
leveled.. During construction, there would be no great amount of earth works. 
However, operations like foundation construction and transport would cause 
slight soil erosion and dusting, which make some affection to the surrounding 
environment. Therefore, during construction, any naked ground should be 
watered in time and subsequently be paved or green covered in order to relieve 
such environmental impact. 
2.  Noise analysis: Noise largely comes from such operations as piling for 
foundation building and transport vehicles. Commonly used machines in civil 
construction include loaders, bulldozers and mixers. Noises made under full 
capacity at different distances are summarized as follows [ unit: dB(A)]: 
Items 5 
m 
10 
m 
20 
m 
40m
60 
m 
80 
m 
100 
m 
150 
m 
200 
m 
300 
m 
Loader 
90 84 78  72 68.5 66  64.5 60.5 58 
54.5 
Bulldozer 
86 80 74  68 64.5 62  60.5 56.5 54 
50.5 
Mixer 
87 81 75  69 65.5 63  61.5 57.5 55 
51.5 
  The national standard on noise limitation at the construction site (GB 12523-90) 
specifies that the maximum noise value cannot exceed 70 dB(A) during daytime and 55 
dB(A) at night. Piling is not allowed at night . It can be seen from the above table that 
noise made by the construction machines will be within the limitation if the distance is 
60 m away from the site during day time and 300 m apart at night. Since the project 
site selected keeps a good distance from the urban dwellers’ living quarters, noise made 
during construction will not cause apparent affection to the environment provided that 
piling operation ceases at night. 
3.  Solid refuses from construction operation needs to be disposed in time in order 
to avoid any  
impact on environment. It is planned to ship those solid refuses to the designated site 
for piling or burying. Impact from construction on the surrounding atmosphere and 
sound environment will disappear as the construction is completed. 
 
Page  441
 
 
126
Environmental impact at the operational stage
: 
1.  Mechanical noises from those machines like air compressors, dryers, motors 
and freezers can reach to a maximum value of 95 dB(A). Analysis proves 
that the noise can diminish to 51 dB(A) by a distance of 150 m, that basically 
conforms with the limitation value set by the national noise limitation 
standard on industrial enterprises ( GB 12348-90 ) in category II, i.e. less 
than 60 dB(A) during day time and 50 dB(A) at night. Therefore, in 
preparation of the general layout of the project, facilities that make much 
noise are located farthest away from the sensitive spots. In addition, housing 
will be partially sealed, equipment making less noises be selected and green 
belt be established to surround the buildings. The noises will be controlled 
within the limitation, i.e. less than 60 dB(A) during daytime and 50 dB(A) at 
night. Impact from noises on the surrounding environment will be 
minimized. 
2.  Liquid ammonia is a dangerous chemical and must be very well protected 
against any possible accident during transport, storage and usage. Therefore, 
Rules on Safety Control of Dangerous Chemicals issued by the State Council 
will be strictly followed. Liquid ammonia will be kept and stored at a good 
distance from the neighboring surroundings. Every measure will be taken to 
protect against accidents such as leakage, seepage and self-burning. 
3.  Boilers use diesel oil as fuel and the annual consumption is 173 tons. It is 
planned to release the smoke through a 25 m high chimney after treatment by 
a dust remover. Evaluation on a similar case with same type of boilers proves 
that major pollutants from the smoke will be controlled within the limitation 
set by the national standard on boilers for release of air borne pollutants ( GB 
13271-2001 ), that would not cause significant affection on atmospheric 
environment.  
4.  The aquatic processing produces some 10,000 tons of wastewater 
contaminated by organic pollutants. The contaminated water will be 
collected by the treatment system. Solid residues will be separated out 
through screening and the water be oxidized after primary precipitation. 
Through the secondary precipitation, sterilization and mud separation, the 
treated water will be clean enough to reach to the grade I standard set by the 
national aggregated sewage release standard ( GB 8978-1996 ). Mud after 
drying will be used as organic fertilizer. In general, the discharged water by 
the project will not cause significant affection to the nearby seawaters.  
5. 
Impact on the nearby mangrove eco-system by the discharged water: There 
exists about 500 mu of mangrove trees along the coastal beach east of the 
project. Mangroves are the unique trees growing at the transitional belt 
between upland and sea, which also forms one of the four most productive 
eco-system for sea. The mangrove trees themselves together with the 
attached plants, algae and phytoplankton absorb inorganic and mineral 
nutrients to conduct photosynthesis. According to the findings by Dr. Fan 
Hangqin of the Guangxi Mangrove Research Center, the mangrove eco-
system has certain purifying capability to pollutants, which is realized 
through the underneath soils, root systems and release of tannic acid. The top 
part including the stem and leaves of the mangrove tree does not absorb 
much of the pollutants. The marsh land grown mangrove trees has abundant 
silt mud and well developed root system, which has rather high absorbing, 
tra
pp
in
g
 and accumulatin
g
 ca
p
abilit
y
 to the 
p
ollutants such as heav
y
 metals, 
Page  442
 
 
127
agro-chemicals, oils and sewage water. And thus concentration of the 
pollutants can be reduced. Moreover, some soil borne microorganisms 
 
Page  443
 
 
128
6.  are able to decompose organic pollutants. The vigorously growing trees 
demand a large supply of nitrides and phosphates from the soils where there is 
no such ample supply. Therefore sea water becomes another supply source. Lin 
Peng and others have found out that mangrove trees in Guangxi absorb 
nitrogen and phosphate averaged at 13 g and 1.3 g per m2 per annum 
respectively. The nearby sea water bears phosphate at about 0.16 umol/L and 
ammonia nitride at 4.1 umol/L. Soils underneath the beach holds an organic 
matter content of 0.054 – 1.06 mg/Kg. Compared with the demand by the trees 
and their attached plants, algae and phytoplankton, supply from these sources 
lags far behind. The project releases 101,518 tons of discharged water, 
carrying 40.46 tons of COD, 6.05 tons of ammonia nitride and 30.3 tons of SS. 
The treated discharged water has the concentration of 100 mg/L, 15 mg/L and 
70 mg/L or less for COD, ammonia nitride and SS respectively. The annual 
release of COD, ammonia nitride and SS is 10.15 tons, 1.52 tons and 0.81 tons 
respectively, averaged at 406 Kg, 60.8 Kg and 3.24 Kg per day, assuming the 
processing plant operates 250 working days a year. In addition, the project is 
adjacent to an open bay with a tide speed of 70 –80 Cm/sec.. With such a tide 
speed, sea water exchanges very fast. The discharged water from the project 
can be spread over 25 Km. away in 10 hours. Therefore, some of the organic 
matters from the discharged water will be taken by the marine plankton and 
some be sedimented into the beach soil and discomposed by the 
microorganisms, becoming the nutrients to the plants. In this connection, the 
discharged water from the project will not cause significant affection to the 
existing mangrove eco-system. 
7. Mechanical noises from machines like dryers, air compressors, motors, 
generators and freezers can result into a maximum value of 95 dB(A). By 
keeping a good space and partial sealed housing, plus low noise-making 
machines are selected, and vibration and sound proof measures are taken, the 
noises within the project border will be controlled to less than 65 dB(A) during 
day time and less than 55 dB(A) at night. Mechanical noises are not significant 
to the surrounding environment.  
8.  In preparation and pre-treatment of the raw materials, about 12,000 tons of 
solid refuses will be generated out, including the fish scales and heads, shells, 
viscera and shrimp heads. These wastes will be collected and sold to the local 
fish meal mills and will not affect the environment. 
9.  Mud and sands from processing operations and mud from waste water 
treatment will be cleared in time and shipped to the designated garbage ground 
or used as organic fertilizer, resulting in no significant affection on 
environment. 
10. 
Without prompt disposal, the solid refuses from processing operations 
would produce awful odor. By prompt collection and shipment of these solid 
refuses to the fishmeal mills, the odor can be controlled within the limitation 
specified by the National Foul-smelling Pollutant Release Standard (GB 
14554-93 ), Grade II. 
11. 
Domestic sewage will be collected by aseptic tanks and gone through the 
treatment system before discharging. It causes non-significant but slight 
affection to the marine environment. 
 
 
 
Page  444
 
 
129
 
Pollution Control Measures to Be Taken and the Expected Results 
 
1. Air borne pollutants:  
Sources (No.) 
Pollutants 
Control measures 
Expected results 
Construction 
period 
Dusts Watering, 
paving 
and 
green cover 
Efficient control 
Drying 
workshop 
Smoke, dust & 
sulphur oxydite 
Release through a 25 m 
high chimney after dust 
collection 
In conformity with 
controlled 
limitation 
 
2. Water borne pollutants 
Sources (No.) 
Pollutants 
Control measures  
Expected results 
Waste water from 
processing 
COD, AM, 
SS 
Anaerobic  and bio-
oxidizing treatment 
In conformity with 
controlled limitation 
Domestic sewage 
COD, AM, 
SS 
Anaerobic and bio-
oxidizing treatment  
In conformity with 
controlled limitation 
 
3. Solid refuses 
Sources (No) 
Pollutants 
Control measures 
Expected 
results 
Civil 
construction 
Building refuses 
Clear in time and ship away 
Proper 
disposal 
Workshops Mud, 
sands, 
foreign matters 
Collect and ship to the 
designated garbage ground 
Proper 
disposal 
Living quarters 
Domestic garbage 
Collect and ship to the 
designated garbage ground 
Proper 
disposal 
 
4. Noises: Mechanical noises reach to 90 dB(A) as maximum during 
construction. Piling is prohibited at night. 
During operational stage, low noise-making machines are selected. Much noise 
making machines are set into sealed housing. Vibration and sound proof measures 
are taken. Noises within the project boundary are to be controlled within 65 dB(A) 
during day and 55 dB(A) at night. 
5. Dangerous chemicals: Liquid ammonia is flammable. Fire, spark and 
smoking are strictly prohibited. Containers must be kept 100% sealed. Liquid 
ammonia is always stored away from fire, oxidants and acids. 
6. Eco-systems: 
 6.1 After completion of the foundations, the naked grounds must be paved or green 
covered promptly to protect the surroundings from dusting and avoid soil erosion. The 
plant campus must be green covered up to the standard set by the state to the food 
processing enterprises to protect the hygiene of the finished products and avoid 
affection on the surrounding environment. 
 6.2 Waste water will be screened, precipitated and oxidized up to the standard set by 
the state before discharging to minimize the affection on the nearby sea waters. Small 
Page  445
 
 
130
amount of the organic matters in the discharged water will be partially taken by 
plankton and partially discomposed by microorganisms in the beach soils. Wastewater 
disposal will not cause affection to the mangrove eco-system. 
 6.3 Waste water will be treated in closed ponds to avoid foul-smelling to affect the 
neigh borers.  
 6.4 Building refuses and domestic garbages will be collected, cleared and properly 
disposed to avoid affection on eco-environment. 
 6.5 Solid refuses will be shipped to the designated garbage ground, which will not 
cause affection to environment. 
 
Conclusions and Recommendations 
Page  446
 
 
131
Conclusions: 
1.  Current status of environmental quality: 
Atmospheric, water and sound environment within the project area is of good 
quality and meets the requirements of various functional zones. 
2.  Analysis on Environmental impact: 
Major pollutants during construction period are noises, dusts and solid refuses. 
Due to the fact that the project site is about 500 m.s away from the dwellers’ 
living quarters, Noises and dusts do not cause significant affection on the 
surrounding environment including the critical points. Solid refuses will be 
shipped to the designated garbage grounds, so they would not cause significant 
affection either. 
Major pollutants at the operational stage are waste water, noises and displaced 
air. Waste water through treatment by the proposed system will be clean enough 
with major pollutants within the controlled limitation specified by the National 
Aggregated Sewage Release Standard (GB 8978-1996), Grade I. Mud from the 
waste water treatment system and domestic garbage from the project will be 
shipped to the designated garbage grounds and waste residues from processing 
operations will be used as raw materials for fish meal production. By doing that, 
no significant affection will happen. 
Mechanical noises will be minimized through soundproof measures to the extent 
lower than the allowances specified by the National Noise Control Standard on 
Industrial Enterprises (GB 12348-90), Grade II. 
Atmospheric pollutants (smoke and sulphur oxidite) from diesel fuel of the 
boilers are of small amount and the release concentration after dust removal by 
dust collectors can be controlled to the extent within limitations set by the 
National Release Standard on Atmospheric Pollutants from Boilers (GB 13271-
2001), Grade II, Timing II. 
Liquid ammonia used as the cooling agent is a dangerous chemical which implies 
risks to environment by accidents. Such accidental risks can be sufficiently 
controlled provided effective control measures are taken according to the Rule of 
Safety Control of Dangerous Chemicals set by the State Council. 
3. General conclusions:  
The project conforms to the national industry development policies and is of great 
importance to the local economic development by integrated utilization of fishery 
resources, enhancing added value of the aquatic products, restructuring local 
fishery sector, promoting sustainable fishery development and creation of more 
job opportunities. 
After completion of the construction, the project will not cause significant impact 
on the  
Page  447
 
 
132
 
surrounding environment when corresponding environment management and 
pollution control measures are taken against the atmospheric, sound and water 
environment. 
Evaluation through consolidated analysis proves that the project will offer good 
economic and social benefits. The project is well located. Construction of the 
project is feasible in terms of environment protection. 
 
Recommendations 
1. 
To strictly implement the regulations set under the Rule on Safety Control of 
Dangerous Chemicals by the State Council by installation of necessary equipment, 
application of sufficient and effective rules and regulations, and preparation of 
emergency reaction scheme which should be submitted for endorsement and recorded 
in files of the departments concerned. 
2. 
To mobilize pertinent staff and workers to learn the knowledge of safety control of 
dangerous chemicals and master the operational procedures on safety control to avoid 
any potential accidents. 
3. 
To prepare and strictly follow a sound management system on safety control and 
environment protection. 
4. 
Once an accident emerges from the dangerous chemical, the emergence reaction 
scheme must be implemented immediately and the departments concerned must be 
informed promptly in order to minimize the loss and affection on the environment. 
5. 
To entrust the local qualified environmental monitoring departments to monitor and 
test the surrounding water environment and timely learn the impact of the released 
pollutants on the quality of the surrounding environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  448
 
 
133
Approval Comments 
1.  This report meets the requirements by pertinent technical codes with reliable 
evaluation conclusions through application of rational evaluation criteria. Pollution 
control measures proposed in the report are eligible for project design on 
environment protection and monitoring. 
2.  The implementing agency must really undertake the pollution control measures 
proposed in this report. The pollution control component and the principal body of 
the project must be designed, constructed and put into operation simultaneously to 
ensure that the released pollutants are controlled within the limitation. 
3.  The Environment Protection Bureau of the Harbor District must intensify 
supervision and management on the aspect of environment protection of the project. 
Only as the environment protection component is proven to be qualified by the said 
bureau when the construction is completed, the project is allowed to be put into 
operation. 
4.  It is agreed to construct the project. 
 
 
 
                                 Environment Protection Bureau 
                                 Fangchenggang Municipal Government 
                                   ( Seal) 
 
                                  Processing Officer: Jin Yan 
                                 
                                  On the date of August 13, 2003  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  449
Approval and Registry Form of Environment Protection on Construction Project  
Registry Form unit
\1f
Fangchengguang Environmental Scientific Graduate School
  
Registry Form person
\1f
Jiang Zhaowei
      
Approval undertaker\1f
     
Project description 
The Seafood Frozen Processing  Plant Of  Fangchenggang Guangxi 
Construction  site
 
Industrial Park, Yuzhouping, the Harbor District, Fangchenggang 
Municipality
 
construction scale 
Plant area of 8800 m
2
, deepfreeze processing of 6500 
ton, low temperature processing of 550 ton , making ice 
of 9000 ton. 
Construction  style
 
\01v
New   \1f Rebuild &continuation      \1f Techno-build 
Industry sort 
Aquatic deep freezing processing 0411 
Environment Protection supervised 
style 
\1fCompiling book  
\01v
Compiling form   \1fRegister form 
Total investment 
(10000YUAN) 
5337.8 
environmental protection 
invest
(10000YUAN) 
98.6 
Environmental 
protection inve
st 
rate
\1f%\1f 
1.8 
Project- 
establishing 
Dept. 
Agricultural. Department 
Approved file No. 
No.16[2003] 
Project 
established 
time 
Jun.26,2003 
Construction Project 
Report Warrant 
Dept. 
Fangchenggang City  Environment Protection Bureau 
Approved file No. 
 
Approved time 
 
Name 
Yuanyi Integrated 
Agricultural Development 
Co. Ltd, Fangchenggang 
Municipality, Guangxi 
Tel 
0770- 
2827927 
Name 
Fangchengguang Environmental 
Scientific Graduate School 
Tel 
0770-2825351 
Address 
Jingang Road Fangchenggang 
Post 
538001 
Address 
No.3 xingang Road 
Post 
538001 
C
onstruction- 
    unit
 
Legal 
representative 
Wei Linzhen 
Person in 
 charge 
Shi 
Yongjian 
Evaluation  
unit 
Certificate No. 
 
Evaluation 
expense(
10000YUAN
) 
1.6 
Environmen
t
 quality  class 
Atmosphere
\1f
Class \1f
GB3095-1996  
Surface water
\1f
Type
 \1f  Groundwater\1f
Type 
\1f    Noise:
 Type \1f
GB3093-1993   
Sea water
 \1f
Type II
  GB9097-1997  Soil\1f          Others\1f 
Project site 
condition 
environment 
condition
 
Environmen
t
 sensitivity 
character 
\01‘
   Drinking water source protection district   
\01‘
   Natural protection district         
\01‘
  Famous scenery district              
\01‘
   Plantation and park     
\01‘
   Essential cropland protection district      
\01‘
    Ecology protection district        
\01‘
  Water and soil leave away protection area     
\01‘
 Ecology sensitive and fragile area  
\01‘
   Population dense area                 
\01‘
    Key cultural relic protection area            
\01‘
Reservoir 
Built + under built 
This project 
Total project 
 
pollutant let out 
standard and 
control 
Contamination 
drainage 
density 
In fact 
drainage 
density 
allowed 
 
general  
drainage  
capacity 
In fact 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
drainage 
density 
predicted
 
 
drainage 
density 
allowed
 
 
drainage  
capacity 
reducing 
capacity  
 
drainage  
capacity 
predicted 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
 
reducing 
capacity of  
old and new 
section
 
drainage  
capacity 
predicted
 
drainage  
capacity 
allowed 
 
 
drainage  
in-creasi-
ng 
capacity 
 
decrease amount in 
district balance 
replacement 
Page  450
 
 
135
waste water
 
  
 
 
  13.1 
 
10 
  
 
 
 
 
Oxyen amount 
 required * 
  
  
 
 
100 100 40 
30 
10 
  
 
 
 
 
Ammonia and 
 nit r oge n * 
  
 
 
15 15 6 
4.5 
15 
  
 
 
 
 
Suspend substance 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Waster gas 
  
 
 
  17.3 
 
17.3 
  
 
 
 
 
Sulfur dioxide 
  
 
 
500 500 0.87   
0.87 
  
 
 
 
 
Smoke and 
dust 
  
 
 
80 80 0.14 0.14  0.14 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial 
powder dust  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Nitrogen and 
oxide 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Industrial solid  
trash 
      30  30 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
o
ther pollutant in relation with 
this project
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Unit\1fy waste gas capacity\1fx104 marked meter3/year\1fwastewater\1fton/year\1fmercury\1fcadmium\1flead, arsenic\1fchromium\1fchloride kg/year\1fo
ther units are all tons\1fwaste gas 
density\1fmilligram/liter\1fWaste gas density milligram/lm 
Notes\1fThis list is written by the evaluation unit and attached on the last page of the report. The last blank is the characteri
stic pollutant. 
Among this\1f\1f5\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f-\1f4\1f\1f\1f6\1f=\1f2\1f-\1f3\1f+\1f1\1f-\1f4\1f 
 
 
 
Page  451
 
 
136
 
 
 
Registry Form of Basic Date of Environmental Management Examine and Approve on The Construction Project
 
Project name\1fThe Seafood Frozen Processing  Plant Of  Fangchenggang Guangx
i
 
Sort \1fForecast  
 Year \1f2003 
Project kind\1fNew constructing
   Environmental estimate\1fFangchengguang Environmental Scientific Graduate School 
Examine and approve \1fDistrict 
    Industry sort\1f Other    
  Environmental estimate sort\1fReport form
 
Administrative precinct\1fFangchenggang city
    Acid rain controlling area\1f No 
 
Total invest of environment 
protection\1f10000’ yuan\1f 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Waste water 
disposal 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Exhaust gas 
disposal 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Noise disposal 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Virescence 
\1fThereinto\1f 
Other invest of 
environment 
protection 
Total invest 
\1f100000000’yuan\1f 
Environmental estimate 
expense\1f10000’yuan\1f 
98.6 65.0 
  
33.6 
0 0.53378 1.6 
Main contamination 
Original letting 
amount 
Newly increased 
letting amount 
Amount scissored by 
new driving old 
Newly increased 
disposing amount 
Contamination letting 
Scissoring amount 
disposed 
Adding and reducing 
letting amount 
Sewerage amount      ten 
thousand ton/year 
0 10  0  10 
10 
0 
209 
COD        
ten thousand ton/year 
0 40  0  30 
10 
30 
10 
NH
3
-N         
ten thousand ton/year 
0 6  0 4.5 1.5 
4.5 
1.5 
Petroleum       
 ten thousand ton/year 
0 0  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
SO
2 
    
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0.87  0 
 
0.87 
0 
0.87 
Page  452
 
 
137
Smoke        
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0.14  0 
0 
0.14 
0 
0.14 
Dust          
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
Nitric oxide     
 ten thousand ton/year 
0 0  0  0 
0 
0 
0 
Solid castoff   
ten thousand ton/year 
0 0.003  0 
0 
0.003 
0 
0.003 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor: Jiang Zhaowei
Page  453
 
 
138
 
