Page  1
AB1990
Report No. PIC4882 
Project Name China-Sustainable Coastal Resource Development Project 
Region East Asia and Pacific 
Sector Agriculture/Fisheries & Aquaculture 
Project ID CN-PE-3539 
Implementing Agencies Provincial governments and prefecture 
governments in Fujian, Jiangsu, Shandong, Liaoning, Hebei, and Zhejiang Provinces and 
Guangxi Autonomous Region 
Date PID Updated  January 6, 1997 
Board Date March 18, 1998  
Projected Restructuring Date April 15, 2004 
Project Reallocation Date November 17, 2005 
 
Background 
 
1
China has a continental coastline of 18,000 km and an island coastline of 14,000 
km. Territorial waters cover 4.87 million sq km of which 1.48 million sq km is 
continental shelf within the 200-meter isobath. The shallow water area below the 10-
meter isobath covers 73,400 sq km of which 19,700 sq km are tidal flats. This vast area is 
one of the world's largest sources of aquatic products and one of the most productive.   
 
2. 
In recent years, the output from China's coastal resources has shown dramatic 
growth. Primary production of aquatic products in 1995 exceeded 25 million tons, and 
this has been a major factor in the economic growth of the coastal provinces. Varied 
outputs from mariculture, aquaculture and offshore capture fishing have spurred the 
growth of processing industries and led to substantial foreign exchange earnings. Of 
equal importance have been rapid gains in jobs and earnings especially for lower income 
groups. China's growth in seafood production has surpassed the country's rapid gains in 
agriculture production. High population pressures on the declining areas of farmland 
argue for more emphasis on the use of coastal resources. There is still considerable 
potential for further expansion but this will have to be accompanied by stronger efforts to 
ensure that it is sustainable and consistent with environmental protection. 
 
3. 
In the 1990s, new techniques for production of aquatic products were developed 
and applied on a large scale. But rapid growth in production has led to new challenges 
that require urgent attention. These include: 
 
-- measures to combat outbreaks of disease such as the viruses that decimated 
shrimp production in recent years; 
-- a need to conserve capture fishery resources and arrest the decline in the stocks 
of some valued species; 
-- a need to protect natural sources of breeding stocks, of which some species are 
unique to China; 
Page  2
-- preservation of biodiversity in tidal flats and shallow waters through 
identification and protection of nature reserves; 
-- measures to preserve, or improve, water quality in coastal areas that are often 
close to large cities and industries; 
-- control of over exploitation of marine resources that in some areas has 
exceeded carrying capacity. 
 
4. 
The Government recognizes these challenges and has recently strengthened 
fishery regulations and called on the provinces to design, implement and monitor plans 
for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM). 
 
5. 
Sustainable development of China's coastal and marine resources through the 
practice of Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) has, therefore, a central place in 
the policy of the central government. This has strong support in the provinces from the 
provincial leaders down through the prefectures, counties, townships, fishermen and fish 
farmers. There is also a strong interest in the coastal provinces in improving aquatic 
product quality and safety. The National Center for Quality Supervision and Testing of 
Aquatic Products in Qingdao has recently issued standards for the safe handling of 
seafood products that conform to the international Hazard Analysis at Critical Control 
Points (HACCP) approach. 
 
Project Objectives 
 
6. 
The project's objectives are to (i) support the Government's commitment to 
sustainable development of China's coastal resources, (ii) reduce pressure on coastal 
fishery resources and (iii) help improve aquatic product quality. These objectives will be 
achieved through (a) the design and implementation of ICZM plans in selected areas of 
four coastal provinces (b) investment in advanced hatchery technology, (c) production 
and processing of aquatic products that promote and reinforce sound ICZM policies, (d) a 
program of field trials of new shrimp culture methods that aim to combat the current 
disease problems, and (e) training of public and private sector staff in quality control 
procedures for aquatic products, consistent with the HACCP approach and the application 
of HACCP standards to processing plants and markets financed by the project. 
 
Project Description 
 
7. 
The approved project covered parts of four coastal provinces -- Fujian, Shandong, 
Jiangsu, and Liaoning. Some project savings were generated and the Government 
requested that those savings be reallocated to Yantai, Shandong Province; Tangshan, 
Hebei Province; Ningbo, Zhejiang Province; and Guangxi Autonomous Region.  The 
proposed components are consistent with a policy of sustainable coastal zone 
management. They fall into four broad categories as briefly described below. 
 
A.  Coastal Zone Management 
 
Page  3
8. 
The project would support the formulation and implementation of ICZM plans in 
the four provinces. This would include: 
 
a) assessment of the present status of resource use 
b) detailed preparation of ICZM plans including provision of hardware and 
software for data management and analysis; 
c) establishment and protection of nature reserves on land and in coastal waters; 
c) equipment and training for environmental data collection and analysis; 
d) review and, if necessary, strengthening of laws and regulations governing 
coastal zone management; 
e) establishment of fishery and environmental monitoring centers;  
f) upgrading of fishery surveillance vessels with equipment for environmental 
monitoring and stock assessment; 
g) support to a marine protected area;  
f) construction of two coastal small-scale wastewater treatment facilities; and 
g) restoration of mangroves. 
 
B. Sustainable Aquaculture and Mariculture 
 
9. 
The project would support environmentally sustainable development of shallow 
waters and tidal flats for mariculture. This would include oysters, scallops, and cage 
culture of fish in shallow and deep waters and clams and laver on tidal flats. Tidal flats 
and shallow waters are highly productive and renewable resources that are not used for 
any other purpose. They offer not only an additional source of income for the local 
people, but more importantly a significant potential for food production in a country 
where land based resources for food production are already intensively used. This 
component also includes modification of shrimp ponds for polyculture. Many of these are 
being used for low intensity polyculture of shrimp, fish and shellfish. The aim will be to 
develop more productive polyculture systems in existing ponds. New pond construction 
is not a part of the project.  Construction of new hatcheries as part of this component will 
increase the supply of high-quality breeding stock and take the pressure off natural 
sources. Local credit is currently not available for these activities. 
 
C.  Shrimp Pond Rehabilitation 
 
10. 
In recent years, high-yield shrimp culture in the project areas has been virtually 
eliminated by virus outbreaks. New methods of shrimp culture involve treatment of water 
in storage ponds, cleaning of the grow-out ponds, aeration, and changes in pond 
geometry. In several areas these new techniques have produced promising results, but 
caution in the pace of development is desirable. Therefore, shrimp pond rehabilitation 
was phased during implementation until it is clear that reliable solutions to the disease 
problems have been found.  The result has been that in the project areas financially 
justified solutions were not realized and the component has been dropped with total 
investments reduced to only about 5% of its original scale. 
 
Page  4
D. Product Quality and Safety 
 
11. 
Some of China's major customers in North America and Europe have plans to 
raise standards of quality and safety for aquatic products in the near future. It is also 
expected that domestic processors and consumers will also demand higher standards. To 
meet these demands, improvements will be needed in product handling at all steps in 
production, marketing and processing. Items to be 
supported by the project include the following; 
 
-- expansion and improvement of selected wholesale markets for aquatic products; 
-- expansion and improvement of selected cold storage and packaging facilities; 
-- construction and/or expansion of processing facilities; 
-- training of fishery officials, processors, market operators, etc. in HACCP 
concepts. 
 
All of these facilities would be designed, built, and operated in accordance with Chinese 
standards based on the HACCP concept.  This component has proven to be successful 
under the project and is being expanded under the restructured project. 
 
Financing 
 
12.   
The estimated cost of the project is US$ 200 million. The Bank Loan of US$ 100 
million would be onlent to the participating provinces/prefectures. About US$ 80 million 
of the proceeds of the Bank Loan would be passed on as loans to the households, farmer 
groups, and enterprises participating in the project. These loans would cover about 50 
percent of the production components and the other 50 percent would be obtained by the 
beneficiaries from other sources. The remaining US$ 20 million would cover 50 percent 
of the cost of supporting services for ICZM with the remainder to be financed by the 
provinces/prefectures. 
 
Implementation 
 
13. 
Overall direction of the project at the central government level rests with the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MOA). The MOA will closely coordinate with the 
State Oceanic Administration. In each of the project areas, high-level Steering 
Committees to guide and coordinate coastal zone management are soon to be established. 
These committees will have representatives from all relevant government departments, 
the public and business leaders. These committees will be headed by a senior government 
official; for example in the case of Fujian the Vice-Governor will head the Steering 
Committee. In each province there is a Fishery Department at the provincial, prefecture 
(or municipality) and county levels. These departments are staffed by personnel with 
wide experience in fishery technology, the provision of support services, and the review 
and approval of plans for aquaculture/agriculture development. The Fishery Departments 
in line with recent government policy are becoming more involved in environmental 
monitoring and coastal zone management. A Central Project Management Office 
(CPMO) has been set up in each project area: in Fujian at the provincial level and in 
Page  5
Nantong, Weihai, Yingkou, Tangshan, Ningbo/Xiangshan, and Fangchenggang at the 
prefectural levels. In all project areas, PMOs have been set up in the counties. These 
PMOs have been closely involved in the planning and design of the project in 
consultation with the potential beneficiaries at the township and village levels. The PMOs 
will have the primary responsibility for planning the production components of the 
project, and have a leading role in the formulation and implementation of coastal zone 
management plans. 
 
Environmental Aspects 
 
14. 
Two of the project's components would have the primary purpose of 
environmental enhancement and be entirely free of adverse impacts. The component for 
Coastal Zone Management aims to ensure sustainable development of coastal resources 
in ways that avoid or eliminate adverse environmental impacts. This component also 
includes protection of wildlife habitat in several locations.  The project has no physical 
impact on any of these habitats; their protection is included as part of the ICZM plans. 
 
15. 
The Product Quality component seeks to introduce safe practices in the 
production, processing and marketing of aquatic products and thereby to reduce or 
eliminate health and environmental risks. 
 
16. 
The Shrimp Rehabilitation Component would try out new techniques for disease 
control in shrimp culture. A common feature of the new techniques is chlorination of the 
water in a holding pond before filling the grow-out pond. Concentrations of chlorine are 
low (about 5 parts per million). On a large scale this might be seen as an environmental 
hazard, but the project does not involve large-scale production. Moreover, an aim of this 
component would be to find other ways of treating the pond water that might be more 
environmentally friendly than chlorine. 
 
17. 
The Mariculture/Aquaculture component involves rehabilitation of existing ponds 
and there is no conversion of land to ponds. Cage culture of fish can produce waste 
matter and, if it is on a large scale, this can create water quality problems. Site selection 
will be based on optimum carrying capacity considerations. The cages would be in 
maximum units of 100 to 200 cages (4x4x4 meters or 5x5x5 meter) and they would be 
widely scattered. All cages would be below the low-tide line. Considerable tidal action 
and winds would disperse and dilute the effluent from the cages. In most places, it will be 
possible to site oyster and/or kelp culture close to the cages to provide a natural source of 
filtration of waste products. The polyculture ponds produce waste products that collect in 
the beds of the ponds. These are cleaned out each year and placed on the sides of the 
embankments forming the ponds. Periodically this material is removed and used as 
compost in the farmers' fields.  The adverse environmental impact of the 
mariculture/aquaculture component is limited to cage culture and is small and widely 
scattered. 
 
Contact Point: Public Information Center 
 
Page  6
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454 
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain 
components may not necessarily be included in the final project. 
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 28, 1997 
 
Annex 
 
China: Sustainable Coastal Development Project 
The project is rated as EA Category B. 
The project is not expected to have any major negative environmental impacts. It's design 
would in effect improve coastal resource use, establish carrying capacity limits, and 
identify areas for various sustainable coastal activities. For coastal and marine 
aquaculture and other components with a possible environmental impact such as quality 
upgrading of processing plants, environmental analysis would be conducted as needed.  
For this category B project, a general environmental analysis would be included as part of 
the Coastal Zone Development plan which would be formulated during project 
preparation. 
 
