Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4322 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Sustainable Coastal Resource Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 31, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4322 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1998, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Allocated Amount” means, in respect of each Project Entity, an amount of 
the Loan allocated by the Borrower to said Project Entity to be utilized by said 
Project Entity for the purposes of carrying out its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
“Beneficiary” means an individual or group of individuals or an 
enterprise to which a Project Entity proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(c)
“Fujian” means the Borrower’s Province of Fujian, and any successor 
thereto.
(d)
“Jiangsu” means the Borrower’s Province of Jiangsu, and any successor 
thereto.
(e)
“Liaoning” means the Borrower’s Province of Liaoning, and any successor 
thereto.
(f)
“Shandong” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong, and any successor 
thereto.
(g) 
“Xiamen” means the Municipality of Xiamen in the Borrower’s Province of 
Fujian.   
(h)
“Marine Aquaculture Items” means goods and works for the development of 
(i) net cages, (ii) rafts, (iii) suspension systems for bivalves, kelp, algae and 
laver, and (iv) clam beds under Part B of the Project.
(i)
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, and any successor 
thereto;
(j)
“Project Area” means: (i) in respect of Fujian, all of its municipalities 
located along its coast; (ii) in respect of Jiangsu, its Municipality of Nantong; 
(iii) in respect of Liaoning, its Municipality of Yingkou; (iv) in respect of 
Shandong, its Municipality of Weihai; and (v) the Municipality of Xiamen;  and 
“Project Areas” means, collectively, all of said Municipalities.
(k)
“Project Entities” means, collectively, the Borrower’s Provinces of 
Fujian, Jiangsu, Liaoning and Shandong and the Municipality of Xiamen; and “Project 
Entity” means, individually, any of the Project Entities.
(l)
“Project Implementation Arrangement” means, in respect of each Project 
Entity, the arrangement to be entered into between the Borrower and said Project 
Entity in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as said 
arrangement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements or arrangements supplemental to the Project Implementation Arrangement; and 
“Project Implementation Arrangements” means, collectively, all of said arrangements.
(m)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of each Project 
Entity, the activities to be carried out by said Project Entity under the Project.
(n)
“Shrimp Rehabilitation Items” means goods and works required for shrimp 
rehabilitation trials under Part C of the Project.
(o)
“Special Accounts” means the five (5) accounts referred to in Section 
2.02(b) of this Agreement; and “Special Account” means any of the Special Accounts.
(p)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Project Entity 
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Subproject under Part B(2), 
C(2) or D(1) of the Project.
(q)
“Subproject” means a specific development project to be carried out under 
Part B, C or D of the Project.
ARTICLE II 
Page  3
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars the following five special deposit accounts in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment:  (i) one such account for the 
purposes of Fujian’s Respective Part of the Project (the Fujian Special Account); (ii) 
one such account for purposes of Jiangsu’s Respective Part of the Project (the Jiangsu 
Special Account); (iii) one such account for purposes of Liaoning’s Respective Part of 
the Project (the Liaoning Special Account); (iv) one such account for purposes of 
Shandong’s Respective Part of the Project (the Shandong Special Account); and (v) one 
such account for purposes of Xiamen’s Respective Part of the Project (the Xiamen 
Special Account).  Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: (i)"Interest Period" means the initial 
period from and including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the next following 
Interest Payment Date.(ii)"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.(iii)"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the first 
day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.(iv)"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Page  4
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause the Project Entities to carry out their Respective Parts of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
economic, financial and technical practices and sound health, safety and environmental 
standards, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Entity said entity’s 
respective Allocated Amount under a Project Implementation Arrangement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and said Project Entity under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank and which are set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain a Project coordination office within MOA, 
responsible for providing overall implementation guidance and coordination services 
required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
(i)
cause each Project Entity to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the 
Project Implementation Arrangement to which it is a 
party, all of the 
obligations of said Project Entity therein set 
forth;
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable 
said Project Entity to perform such 
obligations; and
(iii)  not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere 
with such performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under each of the Project Implementation Arrangements 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the Project Implementation Arrangements or 
any provision thereof.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MOA, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, consolidating the 
plans prepared by the Project Entities and furnished to the Borrower pursuant to 
Section II, Part F.4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, designed to ensure the continued 
sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  5
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01
(a) The Borrower shall cause each Project Entity to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
its operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each Project Entity to:
(i)
have its records and accounts including the records and accounts 
for its 
respective Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the Project Entities to:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.   
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements shall have 
failed to perform its obligations thereunder.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements will be able to 
perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
Page  6
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that a Project Implementation Arrangement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and each Project Entity.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Implementation 
Arrangement between the Borrower and each Project Entity has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and said Project Entity and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and said Project Entity in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486
Beijing
MFPRC CN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Page  7
By /s/ Liu Xiaoming
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jane Loos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
For Fujian's Respective
Part of the Project:
(a) Civil works (excluding
  14,200,000
50%
Marine Aquaculture Items
and Shrimp Rehabilitation
Items)
(b) Marine Aquaculture
  34,400,000
45%
Items and Shrimp
Rehabilitation Items
(c) Goods (excluding
  13,100,000
100% of foreign
Marine Aquaculture
expenditures; 100%
Items and Shrimp
of local expendi-
Rehabilitation Items)
tures (ex-factory
cost); and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(d) Consultants' services
   1,000,000
100%
and training
(e) Unallocated for
   1,650,000
Fujian's Respective
Part of the Project
(2)
For Jiangsu's Respective
Part of the Project:
(a) Civil works (excluding
   5,400,000
50%
Marine Aquaculture Items)
(b) Marine Aquaculture
   3,200,000
45%
Items
Page  8
(c) Goods (excluding
   1,300,000
100% of foreign
Marine Aquaculture
expenditures; 100%
Items)
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost); and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(d) Consultants' services
     100,000
100%
and training
(3)
For Liaoning's Respective
Part of the Project:
(a) Civil works (excluding
   4,400,000
50%
Marine Aquaculture Items
and Shrimp Rehabilitation
Items)
(b) Marine Aquaculture
   2,900,000
45%
Items and Shrimp
Rehabilitation Items
(c) Goods (excluding
   1,900,000
100% of foreign
Marine Aquaculture
expenditures; 100%
Items and Shrimp
of local expendi-
Rehabilitation Items)
tures (ex-factory
cost); and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(d) Consultants' services
     400,000
100%
and training
(e) Unallocated for
     400,000
Liaoning's Respective
Part of the Project
(4)
For Shandong's Respective
Part of the Project:
(a) Civil works (excluding
   4,000,000
50%
Marine Aquaculture Items
and Shrimp Rehabilitation
Items)
(b) Marine Aquaculture
   3,100,000
45%
Items and Shrimp
Rehabilitation Items
(c) Goods (excluding
   2,600,000
100% of foreign
Marine Aquaculture
expenditures; 100%
Items and Shrimp
of local expendi-
Rehabilitation Items)
tures (ex-factory
cost); and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(d) Consultants' services
     100,000
100%
and training
(e) Unallocated for
     200,000
Shandong's Respective
Part of the Project
Page  9
(5)
For Xiamen's Respective
Part of the Project:
(a) Civil works (excluding
   1,200,000
50%
Marine Aquaculture Items
and Shrimp Rehabilitation
Items)
(b) Marine Aquaculture
   1,800,000
45%
Items and Shrimp
Rehabilitation Items
(c) Goods (excluding
   2,400,000
100% of foreign
Marine Aquaculture
expenditures; 100%
Items and Shrimp
of local expendi-
Rehabilitation Items)
tures (ex-factory
cost); and 75% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(d) Consultants' services
      70,000
100%
and training
(e) Unallocated for
   1,650,000
Xiamen's Respective
Part of the Project
TOTAL
 100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing less than $3,000,000 
equivalent; (c) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to firms costing less 
than $100,000; (d) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to individuals 
costing less than $50,000; and (e) training, Marine Aquaculture Items and Shrimp 
Rehabilitation Items, regardless of the cost thereof, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in: (1) supporting the 
environmentally sustainable development of the Borrower’s coastal resources in 
selected areas of the Project Entities; (2) reducing pressure on the coastal fishery 
resources in these areas; and (3) improving the quality of aquatic products from these 
areas.
Page  10
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Coastal Zone Management
Carrying out of a program to develop and introduce coastal zone management plans 
in the Project Areas, including:
(1)
development of appropriate institutional arrangements for coastal zone 
management and establishment of centers and/or stations for fish disease control and 
environmental management, and support for endangered aquatic animal species 
protection, including construction of facilities and provision of equipment required 
therefor;
(2)
assessment of existing resource use in coastal areas and preparation of coastal 
zone management plans, and provision of computer hardware and software required 
therefor;
(3)
analysis of environmental data from coastal zones, and provision of equipment 
and training required therefor; 
(4)
provision of fishery surveillance vessels and equipment required for 
environmental monitoring and stock assessment; and
(5)
establishment of a coastal forest protection belt in the Municipality of Nantong 
in Jiangsu, including construction of facilities and provision of goods required 
therefor.
Part B:
Sustainable Marine Aquaculture
Development of environmentally sustainable marine aquaculture systems in the 
Project Areas, through: (1) the provision to farmers, on credit terms, of equipment, 
materials, facilities and services for specific projects to expand their aquaculture 
activities; and (2) the provision to farmers and enterprises, of loans to finance 
specific projects to develop and expand their aquaculture activities.
Part C:
Shrimp Pond Rehabilitation
Carrying out and evaluation of specific trial projects to develop 
environmentally sustainable methods of cultivation of shrimp and other seafood in 
existing shrimp ponds in the Project Areas, through: (1) the provision to farmers, on 
credit terms, of equipment, materials, facilities and services required for such 
projects; and (2) the provision to farmers and enterprises, of loans to finance such 
projects.
Part D:
Aquatic Product Quality and Safety
(1)
Financing of specific projects to upgrade and expand storage, packaging, 
processing and marketing facilities for aquatic products in the Project Areas, in 
order to improve the quality and safety of said products, through the provision of 
loans to enterprises for said purposes.
(2)
Provision of training to seafood quality inspectors and seafood handlers to 
improve their capabilities in the analysis and prevention of seafood safety hazards.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
Page  11
February 15, 2004
2,115,000 
August 15, 2004
2,175,000 
February 15, 2005
2,240,000 
August 15, 2005
2,310,000 
February 15, 2006
2,375,000 
August 15, 2006
2,445,000 
February 15, 2007
2,520,000 
August 15, 2007
2,595,000 
February 15, 2008
2,670,000 
August 15, 2008
2,750,000 
February 15, 2009
2,830,000 
August 15, 2009
2,915,000 
February 15, 2010
3,000,000 
August 15, 2010
3,090,000 
February 15, 2011
3,180,000 
August 15, 2011
3,275,000 
February 15, 2012
3,375,000 
August 15, 2012
3,475,000 
February 15, 2013
3,575,000 
August 15, 2013
3,685,000 
February 15, 2014
3,790,000 
August 15, 2014
3,905,000 
February 15, 2015
4,020,000 
August 15, 2015
4,140,000 
February 15, 2016
4,260,000 
August 15, 2016
4,390,000 
February 15, 2017
4,520,000 
August 15, 2017
4,655,000 
February 15, 2018
4,790,000 
August 15, 2018
4,935,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in respect of:  (i) the Fujian 
Special Account, Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (the Fujian Eligible Category); (ii) the Jiangsu Special Account, 
Category (2) set forth in said table (the Jiangsu Eligible Category); (iii) the 
Liaoning Special Account, Category (3) set forth in said table (the Liaoning Eligible 
Category);  (iv) the Shandong Special Account, Category (4) set forth in said table 
(the Shandong Eligible Category); and (v) the Xiamen Special Account, Category (5) set 
forth in said table (the Xiamen Eligible Category);  
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in respect of the Fujian 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to $6,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, said 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to the Fujian Eligible 
Category, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of said 
category shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000; (ii) in respect of 
the Jiangsu Special Account, an amount equivalent to $800,000, to be withdrawn from 
Page  12
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, said 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to the Jiangsu 
Eligible Category, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect 
of said category shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000; (iii) in 
respect of the Liaoning Special Account, an amount equivalent to $800,000, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated 
to the Liaoning Eligible Category, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of said category shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000; (iv) in respect of the Shandong Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$800,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to the Shandong Eligible Category, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of said category shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000; and (v) in respect of the Xiamen Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$400,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be lim
ited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Loan Account allocated to the Xiamen Eligible Category, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of said category shall be equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Page  13
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for any Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special 
Account’s respective eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of said Special Account’s respective eligible Categories, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of a 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into said Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Implementation Arrangements
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
I.
Terms of Availability of the Allocated Amounts
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Entity its respective 
Allocated Amount on the following principal terms.
Page  14
A.
The principal amount of the Allocated Amount made available to said Project 
Entity which shall be recovered by the Borrower from said entity:  
(a) shall be the equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the respective 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out 
in respect of expenditures for said entity’s Respective Part of the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (the Dollar Amount); and 
(b) shall be recovered by the Borrower in an amount equivalent to the Dollar 
Amount (determined as of the date or respective dates of recovery). 
B.
The Borrower shall recover from said Project Entity said entity’s respective 
Dollar Amount in semi-annual equal installments over a period of 20 years, inclusive 
of a grace period of 5 years. 
C.
The Borrower shall collect from said Project Entity interest on the principal 
amount of said entity’s respective Allocated Amount withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time at a rate equal to the interest rate payable by the Borrower from time to 
time pursuant to Section 2.05(a) of this Agreement.
D.
The Borrower shall charge said Project Entity a commitment fee on the principal 
amount of said entity’s Allocated Amount not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
equal to three fourths of one percent (0.75%) per annum. 
II.
Conditions of Availability of the Allocated Amounts
The Borrower shall make available to the Project Entity their respective 
Allocated Amounts on conditions whereby each Project Entity shall be obligated to 
perform the following. 
A.
General 
1.
Each Project Entity shall furnish to the Bank for the Bank’s prior approval, the 
program which it proposes to include in the Project as its Respective Part of the 
Project.  Such program shall qualify as said Project Entity’s Respective Part of the 
Project eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if and to the 
extent the Bank shall have notified the Borrower and said Project Entity of the Bank’s 
approval of said program. 
2.
Each Project Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, 
financial and technical practices and sound health, safety and environmental 
standards, and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for its Respective Part of the 
Project.
3.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Project Entity shall ensure that 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants’ services required for its Respective 
Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
4.
Each Project Entity shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by said 
Project Entity of its obligations under the Project Implementation Arrangement to 
which it is a party. 
B.
Project Management
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of its Respective Part of the 
Project, each Project Entity shall at all times continue to maintain, with terms of 
reference, membership (or staffing, as the case may be) and other resources acceptable 
to the Bank: 
1.
a leading group, headed by a Vice Governor or Vice Mayor, to be responsible for 
Page  15
providing policy guidance on issues raised under its Respective Part of the Project; 
and 
2.
a project management office to be responsible for the overall management of its 
Respective Part of the Project, including coordination of procurement where 
appropriate, and monitoring and evaluation of progress in implementing said Respective 
Part of the Project. 
C.
Part A of the Project (Coastal Zone Management)
In order to ensure the proper coordination of coastal zone management in the 
Project Areas and under Part A(1) of the Project, each Project Entity shall: 
1.
at all times continue to maintain a steering committee headed by a Vice Governor 
or Vice Mayor, with terms of reference, membership and other resources acceptable to 
the Bank, to be responsible for overall coordination and provision of policy guidance 
on issues of coastal zone management in said Project Area; 
2.
(excluding Jiangsu and Xiamen) establish, in accordance with a schedule 
acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter at all times maintain, a coastal zone 
management center, with terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to 
the Bank, to be responsible for coastal zone management of said Project Area; and 
3.
develop a coastal zone management plan for its respective Project Area in 
accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank. 
D.
Parts B, C and D of the Project (Subprojects) 
1.
Resettlement
If any Subproject to be carried out in the territory of a Project Entity would 
involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, said Project Entity shall ensure that 
all such persons shall be resettled prior to the implementation of said Subproject in 
accordance with a resettlement plan approved by the Bank, which shall have been 
designed on the basis of policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and 
design criteria acceptable to the Bank, so as to improve the living standards and 
production levels of said persons. 
2.
Marine Aquaculture and Shrimp Pond Rehabilitation Subprojects Carried out by 
Farmers
Each Project Entity shall ensure that the goods and services required for 
Subprojects under Parts B(1) and C(1) of the Project that are included in its 
Respective Part of the Project and are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
shall be made available to farmers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Bank and on the following terms and conditions.
(a)
Said goods and services shall be made available exclusively:
(i)
to farmers who have established to the satisfaction of said 
Project Entity, on 
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that 
they:  
(A)
are creditworthy; 
(B)
possess the technical skills required for the carrying out 
of their 
respective Subprojects; and 
(C)
have undertaken to use said goods and services exclusively 
for the 
purposes of the Subproject for which said 
goods and services are made 
available, and in accordance with 
implementation guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
for Subprojects which said Project Entity has determined, on the 
basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, have been designed 
and are located in such 
a manner as to be:  
(A)
technically feasible; 
Page  16
(B)
commercially viable; and 
(C)
in compliance with sound health, safety and environmental 
standards 
acceptable to the Bank, and, in the case of a 
Subproject for shrimp 
pond rehabilitation under Part C 
of the Project, to have good prospects 
for successful 
rehabilitation as indicated by a biophysical audit 
carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
The amount of the Loan used to finance said goods and services made 
available to said farmers shall be repaid by said farmers to the Project Entity over a 
period not to exceed 15 years (inclusive of a grace period not to exceed 5 years) at 
an interest rate of not less than the rate payable by the Project Entity to the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement.  The amount so repayable 
by said farmers shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (determined on 
the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account on account of the 
cost of said goods and services. 
3.
Marine Aquaculture, Shrimp Pond Rehabilitation, and Aquatic Product and Safety 
Subprojects Carried out by Enterprises 
Each Project Entity shall ensure that: 
(a)
Sub-loans under Parts B(2), C(2) and D(1) of the Project shall be 
appraised and monitored in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the 
Bank; and 
(b)
said Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with procedures and on terms 
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include those set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule.
4.
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject within its respective 
Project Area in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and 
said Project Entity, comply with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the 
purposes of the Project; and
(b)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any portions thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank. 
E.
Financial Management 
1.
Each Project Entity shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
have its records and accounts including the records and accounts for its 
respective Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
3.
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, each Project Entity shall:
(a)
maintain, in accordance with Section 1 of this Part E, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  17
(b)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(c)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(d)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in Section 1 of this Part E and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditures 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.  
F.
Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Each Project Entity shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Each Project Entity shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank:
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than July 31 and January 31 in each year, 
summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities performed by it pursuant to 
Section 1 of this Part in respect of the preceding calendar semester, and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the then current 
calendar semester; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than June 30, 2001, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Section 1 of this 
Part in respect of the period preceding the date thereof, and setting forth the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following said 
date. 3.
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Section, 
each Project Entity shall review said report with the Bank, and promptly take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its Respective Part of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
4.
Each Project Entity shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Borrower not later than five (5) months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and said Project Entity, for 
consolidation and forwarding to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, a 
plan designed to ensure the sustainability of its Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with said 
Project Entity on said plan.
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 5 Sub-loans
A.
Enterprise Eligibility Criteria
Each Sub-loan for a Subproject to be carried out in the territory of a Project 
Entity shall be made exclusively to a Beneficiary which shall have established to the 
satisfaction of said Project Entity, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, that: 
1.
it is an individual, a farming household or an entity possessing legal person 
status, with authority to borrow and carry out said Subproject; 
2.
it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure; 
Page  18
3.
it has the organization, management, staff and other resources required for the 
efficient carrying out of its operations, including the Subproject; and
4.
in the case of a Sub-loan under Part D(1) of the Project:  
(a)
its financial performance for the three years preceding its application 
for a Sub-loan has been satisfactory; and 
(b)
upon full implementation of its Subproject, at least 30% of its raw 
materials are expected to be cultured aquatic products, and at least 10% of its output 
is expected to be exported abroad. 
B.
Subproject Eligibility Criteria
Each Sub-loan made by a Project Entity shall be for a Subproject which said 
Project Entity shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, meets the following requirements: 
1.
The Subproject is technically feasible, and economically, financially and 
commercially viable, and, in the case of a Subproject under Part C of the Project, a 
biophysical audit of the shrimp ponds has been carried out in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank and indicates good prospects for successful 
rehabilitation. 
2.
The Subproject has been designed and is located in such a manner as to be in 
compliance with sound health, safety and environmental guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, including, in the case of a Subproject for the upgrading or expansion of a 
seafood processing facility or net cages, on the basis of an environmental assessment 
carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and if the 
Subproject is expected to involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, a 
resettlement plan for said persons has been developed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II, Part D.1 of this Schedule.
3.
In the case of a Subproject to develop a seafood processing or marketing 
facility, the Subproject is for the expansion or upgrading of an existing such 
facility. 
C.
Terms of Sub-loans
Sub-loans shall be made on the following principal terms: 1.
The principal 
amount of each Sub-loan repayable by the Beneficiary thereof to the Project Entity 
making said Sub-loan shall be the equivalent in terms of dollars (determined on the 
date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of the currency or currencies 
withdrawn from the Loan Account or paid out of the Special Account, on account of the 
cost of the goods and services for the Subproject for which said Sub-loan is made, and 
shall be repaid over a period not to exceed 15 years (inclusive of a grace period not 
to exceed 5 years).
2.
Each Beneficiary of a Sub-loan shall pay to the Project Entity making said 
Sub-loan:  (a) interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time at an annual rate not less than the rate payable by the Project Entity to 
the Borrower pursuant to Section I, Part C of this Schedule; and (b) a commitment 
charge at the rate of 0.75% per annum on the principal amount of said Sub-loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
D.
Conditions of Sub-loans
1.
Each Sub-loan to a Beneficiary shall be made by a Project Entity on conditions 
whereby said Beneficiary shall be obligated to perform the following:
(a)
The Beneficiary shall carry out its operations, including its Subproject, 
with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound technical, financial and 
managerial practices, and consistent with sound health, safety and environmental 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and provide promptly as needed the funds and other 
resources required for the purpose, and maintain adequate records and accounts.
Page  19
(b)
If its Subproject involves the involuntary resettlement of persons, the 
Beneficiary shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that all 
such persons shall be resettled in accordance with the resettlement plan referred to 
in Part B.2 of this Annex.
(c)
The Beneficiary shall procure the goods and services required for its 
respective Subproject in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, and utilize said goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of said 
Subproject.
(d)
The Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, 
including such insurance to cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be payable in a currency 
freely usable by the enterprise to replace or repair such goods.
(e)
The Beneficiary shall enable the Bank to inspect the goods and the sites 
and works included in its respective Subproject, the operation thereof and any 
relevant records and documents.
(f)
The Beneficiary shall at all times maintain and operate its equipment and 
facilities, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and industry 
practices.
(g)
The Beneficiary shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the 
Bank may reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be 
derived from its Subproject. 
2.
Each Project Entity shall suspend the right of the Beneficiary to which it has 
made a Sub-loan to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with said Project Entity. 
SCHEDULE 6 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
Page  20
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 of this Part C, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Advertising 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.4 of the Guidelines, the invitation 
to prequalify or bid for each contract for works estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent may be advertised in the provincial-level press of the Project 
Entity in which said works are to be carried out, with a summary thereof advertised in 
the national press. 
2.
Goods
(a)
International Shopping 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 of this Part C, goods (excluding 
vehicles) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract but not less 
than $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 of this Part C, goods (excluding 
vehicles) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Marine Aquaculture Items and Shrimp Rehabilitation Items 
Marine Aquaculture Items and Shrimp Rehabilitation Items may be procured at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors, such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality 
and the competence of the parties rendering them.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.2 (a) of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; (ii) prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
Page  21
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and (iii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  22
