Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2552 BEN
Agreement
for
the Administration
of Certain Funds to
be made available by the
KINGDOM OF DENMARK
in respect of the
Economic Management Project in
the REPUBLIC OF BENIN
Dated December 30, 1994
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2552 BEN
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1994, between the KINGDOM OF DENMARK (hereinafter 
referred to as Denmark) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter 
referred to as the Association) to provide for the administration by the Association 
of certain funds to be made available by Denmark to the Republic of Benin (hereinafter 
referred to as Benin).
WHEREAS Denmark wishes, pursuant to the Cofinancing and Technical Assistance 
Framework Agreement dated April 28, 1994 between Denmark, the Association and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter referred to as the 
Framework Agreement), to make available to Benin a grant (hereinafter referred to as 
the Danish Grant) in the amount of four million Dollars ($4,000,000), to assist Benin 
in the financing of part of the Economic Management Project (hereinafter referred to 
as the Project) which is being cofinanced by the Association under a Credit extended 
by the Association to Benin pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement, dated May 6, 
1994 between Benin and the Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development 
Credit Agreement); and
WHEREAS Denmark has requested, and the Association has agreed, to administer the 
Danish Grant upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Section 1.01. The Danish Grant shall be provided by Denmark and administered by 
the Association in accordance with the Framework Agreement. The terms and conditions 
of the Framework Agreement shall apply to the Danish Grant except as otherwise 
provided therein.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, shall 
enter into such agreement or agreements with Benin as it may deem appropriate but 
consistent with the terms and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement 
(excluding the debt service provisions thereof) and of this Agreement for the purpose 
of assisting in the financing of the Project. Such agreements with Benin shall, inter 
alia, provide that the proceeds of the Danish Grant may be withdrawn by Benin to 
finance part of the cost of services related to the Project as well as the cost of the 
external audits referred to in Section 5.04 of this Agreement and that the amounts to 
be withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other charges. A copy of 
each agreement shall be furnished to Denmark.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any provisions of any 
agreement entered into between Benin and the Association for the purposes of this 
Agreement shall be handled solely by the Association, and the Association specifically 
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to Denmark, to exercise, 
refrain from exercising or waive any rights under such Agreement or to modify any 
provision thereof, provided, however, that before suspending the right of Benin to 
make withdrawals of funds under such Agreement, the Association shall inform Denmark 
and afford Denmark a reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in the discharge of 
its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the administration 
and management of its own affairs.
Section 1.05. The Association shall ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
in Denmark, as well as the Danish Embassy in Cotonou, are provided with sufficient 
information as to enable a correct monitoring of the implementation and performance of 
the Project. Thus, the Association shall make sure that the Danish Embassy in Cotonou 
is invited and supplied with copies of the documents necessary to participate in the 
annual joint review of project implementation. Furthermore, the Association will make 
sure that the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Copenhagen as well as the Danish 
Embassy in Cotonou are invited to participate in the mid-term review, as well as all 
other reviews and missions related to the Project.
Section 1.06. Denmark may, after consultations with the Association and the 
Government of Benin, carry out supplementary missions related to the Project. The 
Government of Benin and the Association shall be invited to participate in such 
mission.
Section 1.07. Denmark may, in relation to the monitoring of the Project, 
identify consultants to participate on behalf of Denmark in the activities described 
in Section 1.05 and Section 1.06.
Section 1.08. All expenditures related to the Danish monitoring of the Project 
as described in Section 1.05, Section 1.06 and Section 1.07 shall be supplementary to 
the funds included in this Agreement and shall be paid for by Denmark.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, Denmark shall deposit the 
initial amount of the Grant into the Association's cash account T. (ABA 0210-8212-0) 
maintained with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY) in New York City 
(hereinafter referred to as the T-Account). Subsequent installment deposits of Grant 
proceeds will be deposited by Denmark into the same account. When making payments, 
Denmark will instruct the FRBNY, Foreign Department, to advise the Association's Cash 
Management Department as to the amount received, the project's name, the trust fund 
number (T.F. 027965) and the date of deposit.
Section 2.02. Promptly following the signature of this Agreement, Denmark shall 
make an initial deposit into the T-Account in an amount of $1,000,000, representing 
the estimated cost of expenditures for the Project to be financed from the Danish 
Grant over the first eight-month period.
Section 2.03. (a) The Association shall thereafter communicate to Denmark not 
later than September 1 and March 1 of each year, an estimate of the expenditures for 
the Project and activity required over the six-month period commencing thereon.
Page  3
(b)
Denmark shall promptly deposit into the T-Account the proceeds of the 
Danish Grant necessary to meet the expenditures referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.04. The Association shall disburse from the         T-Account such 
amounts as, from time to time, shall be needed to meet the reasonable cost of services 
financed or to be financed pursuant to Section 1.02 of this Agreement. Such 
disbursements shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal applications for eligible 
expenditures submitted by Benin to the Association in accordance with the 
Association's normal procedures for withdrawal and disbursement of proceeds of credits 
made by the Association.
Section 2.05. Unless otherwise agreeed upon between Denmark and the Association, 
all disbursement from the "T" Account shall be made in order to finance:
(a)
investments in accordance with Article V of the Cofinancing and Technical 
Assistance Framework Agreement dated April 28, 1994 between Denmark and the 
Association; or
(b)
activities of the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Development 
Credit Agreement dated May 6, 1994 between the Association and the Republic of Benin.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall maintain separate records and accounts 
in respect of the funds in the T-Account disbursed by the Association pursuant to the 
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association shall, at the end of each of its 
fiscal years, furnish to Denmark a statement of accounts on such records and accounts.
(b)
Upon request from Denmark, the Association shall cause such accounts and 
records to be audited and certified by the Association's external auditors for each 
fiscal year that funds shall remain in the T-Account and shall furnish to Denmark the 
report of such audit by said auditors.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. Denmark and the Association shall consult from time to time, at 
the request of either party, on all matters arising out of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and, subject to the provisions of this Article, shall continue in effect until 
all disbursements have been made from the T-Account to the Recipient.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the purposes of 
this Agreement can no longer effectively or appropriately be carried out, this 
Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of such party on ninety days (90 days) 
notice in writing to the other party.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of the Agreement, unless the parties agree on 
another course of action, any agreement or portion thereof entered into by the 
Association, as Administrator on behalf of Denmark, shall be transferred to Denmark, 
and any funds or other property of Denmark held hereunder by the Association shall be 
returned to Denmark, and the Association's administration shall be considered 
terminated.
Section 5.04. The cost of any external audits requested by Denmark pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement may be charged by the Association to the Danish 
Grant.
Section 5.05. Promptly after termination of the Agreement, the Association shall 
furnish to Denmark a final report and a financial statement on the T-Account, together 
with an opinion of the Association's external auditors on such statement if so 
requested by Denmark.
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement of the 
parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Page  4
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, telefax 
(followed by an original copy), cable or telex to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Denmark:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Asiatisk Plads 2
DK-1448 Copenhagen
Denmark
Cable address:
Telex:
ETRANGERES 31292
Copenhagen
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
WASHINGTON, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have signed this 
Agreement.
THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK
By /s/ Geert AA. Andersen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
