Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:    19601 MLI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.8 MILLION
(US$3.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR
IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
JANUARY 21, 2000
Human Development 2
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFA 600= US$ 1,00
US$ 1.00 = CFA 600
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA          Projet dAppui a l Amelioration des Apprentissages dans les Ecoles Fondamentales
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CECI         Centre Canadien d'Etude et de Cooperation Internationale
CED          Centre d'Education pour le Developpement
CMDT         Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles
CPS          Cellule de Planification et de Statistiques
DAF          Division Administrative et Financiere
DNAFLA       Direction Nationale pour l'Alphabetisation et la Linguistique Appliqu~e
DNEF         Direction Nationale de l'Enseignement Fondamental
DRE          Direction Reggionale de l'Education
GRIP         Grassroots Initiative Project -- Projet dA'ssistance aux Initiatives de Base
IAPSO        Inter-Agency Procurement Services
IDA          International Development Association
IEC          Information, Education et Communication
IEF          Inspection de l'Enseignement Fondamental
IPN          Institut Pedagogique National
LIL          Learning and Innovation Loan
MEB          Ministere de l'Education de Base
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PC           Pedagogie Convergente
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PRODEC       Programme Decennal pour le Developpement de l'Education
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director:   Nicholas R. Burnett
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Linda English



MALI
IMPROV'ING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project                      5
4. Learning and innovation expectations
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements                                              9
D. Project Rationale
(This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD)
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            9
2. Financial                                                                          10
3. Technical                                                                          10
4. Institutional                                                                      10
5. Social                                                                             11
6. Environmental assessment                                                           11
7. Participatory approach                                                            11
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     11
2. Critical risks                                                                     12
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     13
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            13
2. Other                                                                              13



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          13
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          14
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           15
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              18
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         26
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   27
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               29
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       30
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            43
MAP(S)
IBRD 30335



MALI
IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: January 21, 2000                            Team Leader: Linda K. English
Country Manager/Director: Hasan A. Tuluy          Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Burnett
Project ID: P058770                               Sector(s): EE - Education Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): EDUCATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        O Grant        El Guarantee     El Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 3.8
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 1.9                                    Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local    -F.ogn               Total
Government                                                      0.36           0.00          0.36
IBRD
IDA                                                             3.01           0.80          3.81
GOVERNMENT OF THE NETHERLANDS                                   0.36           0.99          1.35
Total:                                                          3.73           1.79          5.52
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF 13ASIC EDUCATION
Ministry of Basic Education
Address: B.P. 71, Bamako Mali
Contact Person: Mr. Isake Niambele, Project Coordinator
Tel: 223 77 27 78               Fax: 223 22 77 67                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
I    2000               2001.       2002        2003
Annual     0.2           0.7         2.1         0.8
Cumulative     0.2          0.9          3.0         3.8
Project implementation period:
Expected effectiveness date: 02/15/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
XS PAD F.-: Odobl 9, 199



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's objective is to further develop and assess the merits of bilingual education in Mali, in terms of
its financial and educational sustainability. To date, bilingual education known as the "Pedagogie
Convergente", has been provided in about 300 public schools in Mali since 1994, reaching a full sixth
grade cycle next year (in 2000). This child-centered pedagogy uses mother tongue (national language)
instruction, concomitant with French, the official language of instruction in Mali public schools. The
"Pedagogie Convergente" approach is in line with evidence from Mali and other countries linking bilingual
teaching methods most closely to improved school performance in terms of greater learning outcomes for
all students. Gains from bilingual schooling have included lower repetition and dropout rates, higher
attendance and promotion rates, and higher scores on all subject matters, including mastery of French,
especially for girls and disadvantaged (or minority language) children. It is expected that these efficiency
gains will gradually increase total educational levels at a lower cost after allowing for the initial higher cost
of bilingual schooling, due to supplementary national language learning materials, teacher training and
supervision. Over time, the project will thus support Government's development objective in the education
sector, which is to improve the performance of the Malian education system in terms of quality, equity and
access to learning.
The project will allow the Government to go to scale with bilingual education in different types of schools
and to determine under what conditions this is applicable and affordable. In particular, the Ministry of
Basic Education will learn: (i) how to revise and experiment the new curriculum in line with the "
Pedagogie Convergente" and to implement and assess, in a participatory manner, bilingual schooling
including in-service teacher training and supervision; (ii) how to revise, produce, and distribute improved
textbooks in national languages through private publishers; (iii) assess the applicability of
family/school/community partnerships in making schools more effective; (iv) and develop a results-oriented
decentralized financial and personnel management system designed and tested in selected communes.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a) outcomes. (i) The "Pedagogie Convergente" is used in six languages in approximately 700 schools in
Mali; (ii) repetition and dropout rates will be lowered in participating "Pedagogie Convergente" schools
when compared to traditional schools; (iii) results in reading, French and math will be better in " Pedagogie
Convergente" schools when compared to traditional schools; (iv) application of the " Pedagogie
Convergente" in the new school curriculum in Mali by end of the project; and (v) establishment of school
improvement plans for school management committees in selected schools where bilingual education has
been introduced.
(b) development impact. (i) increased cost savings as a result of bilingual schooling; (ii) equal access to
learning materials, one textbook per student in participating schools for grades 1-3 in reading in six
national languages; (iii) improved classroom practices and learning outcomes in participating schools; and
(iv) increased awareness of parents and communities of the value of bilingual schooling.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 17775 MLI                           Date of latest CAS discussion:
05/26/98
-2-



The development of human resources is one of the major long-term CAS and Government of Mali
development objectives. The sector-related CAS goal is to increase the quality of and access to basic
education while maintaining costs at affordable levels. Recognizing the importance of investing in human
capital, the Bank agreed, as part of its Country Assistance Strategy, to support a Learning Innovation Loan
(LIL) operation which could enable the Government to start to implement the ten-year education
development plan (PRODEC) and to go to scale with bilingual schooling. The Government's willingness to
involve communities in managing the education system as a means to improve sustainability in the sector,
as well as its ambition to strengthen institutional capacity of the sector, is in line with the Bank Country
Assistance Strategy.
Over the past 3 years, the Bank's clialogue with Mali has been focused on developing a financially
sustainable policy framework which would allow the country to significantly increase enrollment rates
which are currently well below 50%. The Government's proposed policy framework called "Programme
Decennal pour le Developpement de l'Education (PRODEC)" which was presented to donors at a Round
Table meeting in June 1998, consists of an educational development strategy aiming at universal primary
schooling and the introduction of a basic education cycle of eight years that will: (i) improve the quality of
education, such as expanding bilingual instruction, increasing community participation in financing and
managing schools; (ii) reduce the costs of service delivery by decentralizing the hiring and management of
primary teachers; (iii) increase the share of government's budget to primary education by reducing
allocations to upper secondary and university scholarships and limiting the expansion of public upper
secondary education. While the P]RODEC provides a broad vision of pedagogic, administrative and
financing reforms, the Government has not yet developed operational and sustainable plans to implement
these reforms.
While the Bank agrees with the strategic thrust of the Government's policy framework, the financing of this
strategy remains to be clarified bef.ore the Bank can provide financial support for a sector-wide operation.
In particular, budget allocations should reflect Government's stated priority towards primary education. In
addition, given urgent needs for teacher recruitment, classroom building, and quality enhancement,
efficiency in the use of resources across and within levels is crucial. Government needs to have a viable
recruitment and salary policy for teachers, with increased involvement of local governments. A strategy to
decrease scholarships in higher education and to eliminate it in secondary school needs to be prepared and
implemented. To ensure sustainability of reforms in the sector, the Government will need to undertake
open dialogue with different stakelholders, especially teachers and student unions. In the context of Mali's
eligibility for the HIPC initiative, a clear strategy for education, including a financing plan agreed upon
with the donor community, is a major condition and the Government has committed itself in the PFP to
prepare an update of the PRODEC before the end of 1999 taking into account the issues mentioned above.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Low enrollments in basic education including gender and regional imbalances: Gross schooling
rates in Mali, at about 50% at the primary level in 1998 are among the lowest in the world. This rate is
much lower in rural areas (30% on average) and for girls (25% on average in rural areas). In Bamako, the
GER is estimated at 138% due to early and late enrollments. In order to increase enrollment rates in rural
areas, especially for girls, it is necessary to reduce the opportunity cost, in particular by lowering the
repetition and dropout rates, building schools closer to communities and by adjusting the curriculum and
introducing literacy education for parents. The comrmunity schools experience shows that this goal can be
achieved in Mali.
(b) Poor learning results in primary schools: Student learning achievement at end of primary and lower
- 3 -



secondary schooling have been declining over the years (from 64% to 56%) in both urban and rural areas.
The quality of teaching and learning is poor as is demonstrated by both input and output indicators: apart
from the "Pedagogie Convergente" schools, few resources are allocated for improving the quality of
learning; the pupil/textbook ratio is very low in both French and national languages; the national
curriculum is not very well adapted to the linguistic, social and economic context of children; teaching
methods and classroom practices are inadequate or outdated; and repeater and drop-out rates in primary
school are high and completion rates are low.
(c) Low efficiency of public education: The development of public primary education is constrained by
low internal efficiency resulting in high unit costs. An important issue is the relatively high wage levels for
teachers when compared to per capita income. Even if the average wage levels remain modest compared to
other civil servants, they are creating an obstacle to the expansion of the system and the improvement of
quality. Relying on the expansion of a community-financed system, essentially supported by parents, risks
creating more inequity in Mali as poor and marginalized families cannot afford to run schools. Equally, the
quality of education is not systematically addressed in these schools. Intra-sectoral budget allocations need
adjusting: about 20% of the current education budget finances scholarships for secondary and university
students leaving few resources for other non-wage quality enhancing inputs.
(d) Poor accessibility of education for all children: Overall, there is inadequate coverage of primary
schools for the rural and peri-urban population. The admission rate is about 52%; 60% for boys and 43%
for girls. In some areas, this rate is as low as 25% for boys and 19% for girls. The recent growth in
community schools, mainly supported by NGOs (via USAID, CIDA and FED) has improved access for
rural children and in particular for girls as schools have been built closer to the community and with
significant community participation in both financing and managing schools. Approximately 1,500
community schools have been established in the regions of Koulikoro, Sikasso, Kayes, Mopti, Segou, Gao
and Bamako. This experience is very positive, indicating that attendance, learning outcomes in the early
grades of Save The Children and the World Education sponsored schools are better when compared to
traditional French-only language schools. (The evaluations prepared by IPN, USAID and World Education
are in the project files).
(e) Community participation in schools. There exists in Mali a wide range of models for community
involvement in schooling, from direct community financing of teachers and school construction to more
traditional levies and fees raised through parents' committees. One of the policy objectives of the
PRODEC is to help the Government manage the diversity in approaches to school management and
financing in ways that promote learning and sharing of experiences, and that provide financially sustainable
approaches to expanding primary school coverage and quality. While Government policy is to involve
parents and communities in school activities and school management (in order to reap the benefits of
parental understanding of school issues, more accountability of schools to families and community
involvement in resource allocation at the school level) the Government does not have an operational
strategy to implement this policy.
-4 -



(f) Decentralization. In addition to the 19 existing communes, the June 1999 elections created an additional
682. Government's policy on decentralization is outlined in Laws No 95-034 and 98-010. The
decentralization law does not define the specific responsibilities that will be transferred nor the financing
that will go with these responsibilities. Rather, it is up to each Ministry to define what responsibilities and
services and the time-frame for their transfer to municipalities. An operational plan for transferring
responsibilities, defining the regulations and institutional framework has not yet been developed.
(g) Central management of the education system: While the Ministry of Education has some good
technical departments, particularly in evaluation (IPN), statistics, (CPS) and bilingual education
(DNAFLA), the overall management capacity remains quite weak due to very little management training,
poor working conditions, high turnover of management staff, and, little use of decision making tools and
weak accountability to parents and students for budget decisions. In order to improve the quality of
teaching outside Bamako, it would be necessary to strengthen the deconcentrated management, primarily
the DRE and IEF which are responsible for in-service training, supervision and inspection, payment of
teachers and working with communities.
Government strategy:
The Government's ten-year education sector policy (PRODEC) focuses on reaching universal primary
education with a primary enrollment rate target up to 75% by the year 2008 and improving the quality and
outcomes of education. A key strategy to reach this goal is to provide bilingual schooling, using mother
tongue instruction in the early grades concomitant with French as of the second grade. This bilingual
education model, or "Pedagogie Convergente" places the child and its socio-linguistic environment at the
center of teaching and learning. T his pedagogy is in line with proven practices aiming at quality and equity
goals in primary education, as well as cost-effectiveness in producing a primary education graduates (see
Guatemala Bilingual Education 1995). For instance, evaluations carried out by IPN and USAID in Mali
have demonstrated that children's learning achievements in mathematics and French are better in bilingual
schools than for those children who are taught the traditional French medium of instruction curriculum.
Schooling rates are also higher for girls in the bilingual schools as compared to the French medium of
instruction schools. Based on the relative performance of students in the bilingual schools in Mali so far,
one may safely assume that they wvill perform well or better at the end of primary school, if an adequate
learning environment is provided.
The "Pedagogie Convergente" approach, in addition to using mother tongue instruction, is based on an
age/grade organization of schooling and integrates practical and like skills with basic skills (3Rs)
instruction through individual, group learning and/or peer tutoring lessons. This approach to learning
makes multigrade classroom teaching possible, although most "Pedagogie Convergente" schools are not
multigrade. Teachers in these schools benefit from additional in-service training in both the national
languages and the "Pedagogie Convergente". The "P&dagogie Convergente" experience will provide the
knowledge base for the development of the new national curriculum for basic education (8 grades).
At present, there are four types of primary schools in Mali including public schools which provide a
traditional French language curriculum and 309 public schools which have introduced, progressively since
1994, the bilingual "Pedagogie Convergente" instruction. At present, only half of these schools have
reached 5th grade in Bamanankan, Fulfulde and Soray. Amongst the 1500 NGO/community sponsored
schools, the 800 Save The Children schools teach in the mother tongues without applying the "Pedagogie
Convergente" curriculum, although they are expected to do so as of next school year with government
support. The World Education schools use the traditional French language curriculum. Finally there are
numerous private schools which provide the traditional French language instruction or bilingual
Arab/French instruction. The Government is committed to innovating and learning how to collaborate
- 5-



with public 'Pedagogie Convergente" schools, communities and NGOS in order to replicate the
cost-effectiveness aspects of bilingual public and community-run schools and apply them to the whole
public
As regards decentralization, the PRODEC has defined the specific responsibilities to be transferred to the
municipalities which are (i) the construction, equipment and management of primary schools (Gr. 1 to 6);
(ii) the recruitment and payment of primary school teachers; (iii) the preparation of municipal school
development programs; and (iv) participating in the definition of school mapping, curriculum and the
school calendar. The Ministry of Education will transfer both responsibilities and the financial means to
municipalities while improving both equity in the access of the population to public resources for education
and the quality of service delivery under the project. Moreover, teacher recruitment policies would benefit
from a flexible and decentralized system that would put more emphasis on management at the local level
thereby increasing accountability.
3. Learning and Development issues to be addressed by the project:
This project has been designed at the request of Mali's Ministry of Basic Education (MEB). It will address
the main sector issue concerning how to improve learning in primary schools, through the following
strategic choices: (i) expanding instruction in national languages in the first years of primary school via the
innovative bilingual pedagogical approach (Pedagogie Convergente); (ii) developing the new curriculum in
line with the "Pedagogie Convergente" philosophy and experience in Mali; (iii) producing appropriate
learning materials in national languages; and (iv) involving communities in school activities. The learning
and innovation activities to be supported by the project are as follows.
(a)    Developing bilingual education and the new curriculum. To date, the use of the "PIdagogie
Convergente" model using mother tongue instruction concomitant with French has not been systematically
based on the necessary curriculum revisions. Curricular content and teaching methods, including learning
assessment systems need developing in line with the basic education objectives and the valuable experience
and lessons of bilingual education in Mali. The development and assessment of a coherent and feasible
implementation approach for expanding bilingual schooling provided in a national curriculum and learning
standards is a pre-condition for going to scale with the " Pedagogie Convergente" model. The project will
provide curriculum development support in parallel to other donor activities, focusing on the bilingual
aspect of the curriculum and teaching practices in six grades. Learning standards and competencies for the
six grades of primary education in reading comprehension and mathematics will be acquired. The
orientation of teachers to this "Pedagogie Convergente" approach to teaching and learning will be tested.
(b)    Textbook production in national languages and distribution. The "Pedagogie Convergente"
approach has been experimented in an essentially ad-hoc manner with very poor quality textbooks and
learning materials and inadequate amount of learning materials for math and teaching of French as a
second language. The project will test the production of good quality textbooks in national languages and
their delivery to the inspectorates. It will also test the capacity of the communities to handle the
transportation of books from the IEFs to the schools as well as their storage and safekeeping during the
school holidays. Lessons learned from these tests will help improve the design and implementation
procedures of the textbooks and learning materials component of PRODEC.
(c)    Monitoring and Evaluation. A simple but robust information system for classroom and program
monitoring will be established at various levels of the service delivery chain. At the school level, school
records and teacher diaries will be used to collect information and monitor the teaching, curriculum and
learning environments. Curriculum-based test items for teachers' use in the classroom in national
- 6 -



languages, mathematics and French for each grade, based on a comparative analysis of curricula used in
Malian schools, will be developed and implemented to monitor and improve student learning. An improved
national information system will be installed in the CPS, including the development of an information bank
of school level data which will allow more rapid analyses and assessment of the impact of reforms at the
school level. Baseline data will be collected for all schools during the first year and end of project to
facilitate learning assessment and cost-effectiveness evaluation that will be carried out comparing the
different schools including community involvement.
(d)   Systems and Procedures. Numerous systems and procedures developed during implementation
will be adapted and used to replicate results at a national scale in the next phase including; (i) a national
language teacher and community survey; (ii) an updated school information data base; (iii) reports on
school management committees; (iv) the costs of contracting NGOs to provide local capacity building
services in school awareness, management and literacy; (v) results oriented financial and personnel
management systems; (vi) a proposal for reorganization of the MEB and its deconcentrated services to
reflect the adoption of the PRODEC goals and community partnerships in service delivery.
(e)    Participation. The success of any reform program can be measured by the increased demand for
those services and the continuation of those reforms once the project has been completed. The major
reforms, which will be tested concem improving the national curriculum, expanding bilingual schooling and
involving local communities in school management. The participation of stakeholders in the design and
implementation of reforms helps to ensure that they will be a success. The project will allow the
involvement of NGO, DRE, IEF, parents, teachers, directors, communities and decision makers in the
project design and implementation, the development of interactive participatory techniques (focus groups,
information strategies, school visits and communication strategies) and participatory approaches to
evaluation.
(f)    Accountability. One of the rationales for decentralization is that it increases accountability, as
the responsibility for service delivery is closer to the consumer. However, for this to happen, roles and
responsibilities have to be clarified and agreed upon. In the case of Mali, government policy is that
municipalities are to be responsible for service delivery of primary education. The project will help test
various procedures for developing a management and decision-making system that will allow authorities to
be accountable to its citizens. As well, local communities will have a role to play by preparing school
improvement plans in collaboration with school directors and inspectors thus, rendering schools more
accountable to parents and students. The preparation of evaluation reports and communication strategies
will also increase central government authorities' capacity to report on activities to Parliament and the
public in general thereby enriching its accountability capacity.
(g)    Literacy. Within the context of community partnerships, the Government will learn how to
contract out functional literacy services to NGOs and involve communities in the decision making.
Collecting of cost information and a program evaluation will allow for comparisons to be made with other
programs and decisions to be made about subsequent phased implementation. There are a wealth of
functional literacy programs in Mali (CMDT, GRIP, UNICEF, SAVE, World Education, CECI).
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
E Economic    O Technical    L Social          O Participation
El Financial    1 Institutional  C Environmental El Other
-7 -



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative    Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of,    aankig   Bannk
. U$$M R) Total.   (UM    finan.cing
1. Learning to implement bilingual  EP - Primary       3.76      68.1       2.38      62.5
education in primary education. This   Education
component will finance the production
and distribution of textbooks and
learning materials, training of
teachers, school directors, inspectors
and pedagogic advisors and evaluation
of student learning, teacher quality.
2. Testing Family/Community/School   BI - Institutional  0.73     13.2      0.63      16.5
partnerships. The component will   Development
finance training of school management
committees, adult literacy and
community awareness as well as school
improvement projects.
3. Decentralization of the education  BI - Institutional  0.54     9.8      0.48      12.6
system. The component will finance    Development
consultancies, workshops to develop,
test and decentralize financial and
management procedures in 5
"communes".
4. Strengthening implementation.   BI - Institutional  0.49        8.9      0.32       8.4
capacity for project management and    Development
implementation. The project will
finance technical assistance, training,
logistics and equipment costs for the
project coordination level and financial
management.
Total Project Costs                    5.52      100.0      3.81     100.0
Total Financing Required                     5.52     100.0       3.81     100.0
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is to be implemented over a period of three years. The Ministry of Basic Education (MEB) is
the Executing Agency.
Oversight Responsibility. The primary responsibility for providing overall guidance about the scope and
direction of the project will rest with a Steering Committee called the "Comite d'orientation et de suivi".
The Steering Committee is chaired by the Secretary General of MEB and comprises the Directors of the
- 8 -



MEB technical departments, the Cellule Technique for the PRODEC, the Project Coordinator, and a
representative from the National Parents' Association of Mali.
The Steering Committee will ensure that the project activities are consistent with Government's overall
policy objectives in the education sector. It will have primary responsibility for overseeing project
performance and progress, reviewing and approving annual work programs and budgets, including
management reports prepared by the Project Coordination Unit, approving school improvement projects
submitted by communities, assessing the impact of activities on the basis of project performance indicators,
and for providing guidance about the overall scope and direction of the project. The Steering Committee
will be the primary mechanism for ensuring that the interests of key stakeholders, particularly those at the
regional level, are adequately addressed during project implementation. It is envisaged that the Steering
Committee will meet on a quarterly basis, or at other times as needed.
Project Management. A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been established to assist the Steering
Committee in the day-to-day management of project activities. The PCU will be responsible for the overall
project administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and overall project
implementation and supervision. The PCU is comprised of Government employees: a Project Coordinator,
Convergent Pedagogy Component Leader, School Partnership Component Leader, Decentralized Financial
Management Component Leader and an Accountant and a Procurement Specialist. With the exception of
the Head for the Decentralized Financial Management Component, all members of the PCU are expected to
work full-time on the Project. The Project Coordinator, and leaders for the Convergent Pedagogy and
School Partnership Components will be housed in the PCU premises. The Decentralized Financial
Management Component Leader, the Accountant and the Procurement Specialist will be housed in the
offices of the Budget Department (DAF).
The Project Coordinator will have primary responsibility for the overall project management. The Leaders
of each of the Project Components will be responsible for managing the implementation and supervising the
activities related to their respective components. The Accountant and Procurement Specialist will be
responsible for overall financial/disbursements and procurement management activities, respectively.
During project implementation, additional (short-term) contractual personnel (i.e. an local accounting firm)
will be recruited to assist the PCU in specific areas of accounting, the preparation of accounting reports
and/or provide backstopping assistance as may be needed from time to time.
Regional Level. At the regional level, the DRE (Direction Regionale de l'Education) will be responsible
for: (i) implementing the training program for teachers, school directors and pedagogic advisors in
"Pedagogie Convergente"; (ii) organizing the community mobilization campaigns, in collaboration with
local NGOs; (iii) managing the selection process for the school improvement projects submitted by
communities; (iv) monitoring the use of project funds at the community level; (v) managing the distribution
of textbooks to schools; (vi) providing inputs for the preparation of annual work programs and budgets, to
be reviewed and consolidated at the central level; and (vii) preparing progress report on status of project
implementation at the local level.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements A Project Coordinating Unit has been
established for the overall project administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, and overall implementation and supervision project activities. The Project Accountant, a full
time Government employee, will report to the Director of Material in the DAF of MEB, and will be
responsible for project financial management including the preparation and production of the annual
financial statements, in accordance with internationally accepted accounting principles, as well as making
arrangements for their certification by a competent and experienced audit firm under terms and conditions
-9-



acceptable to IDA. It will also monitor all disbursements under the projects and ensure that they are made
in conformity with IDA requirements. A TOMPRO software-based financial management information
system, including the Manual of procedures, the accounting, budgetary, financial, and internal control
systems, is being installed by a reputable local firm and it will be operational at the outset of project
implementation. Disbursements, accounting, and financial reporting will be consistent with the Projet
Implementation Plan, the Development Credit Agreement, and the Financial and Procedures Manual. The
financial management system will thus allow for the proper recording of all project-related transactions as
well as timely monitoring of expenditures per category and components. Government will establish a
Project Account, using counterpart funds, for financing recurring expenses. A Special Account for the
IDA Credit will be opened and maintained with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The financial
reporting will evolve from the traditional basic set of financial statements during the first 18 months of the
project implementation to the PMR-based method. The PMR-based reporting will after 18 months of
project implementation and continue. Project accounts and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be
audited annually by an internationally- accredited and independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The Project Coordinating Unit will ensure that a systematic and detailed monitoring and reporting system,
focusing on both the outputs and outcomes of the project will be implemented. The system should allow
for an effective evaluation of (i) the project's delivery mechanisms, implementation procedures, and
institutional arrangements; (ii) performance effectiveness, evaluated on the basis of the project's
development objectives and key performance indicators identified in the Project Design Summary (Annex
1); and (iii) the potential replicability of project interventions on a wider scale. The monitoring and
evaluation activities will be carried out by the various technical units in the MEB including CPS, DNAFLA
and IPN, and at the regional level by the DRE and IEF and school directors. Progress towards project
outcomes will be evaluated during project supervision and during the Mid-Term Review. The Mid-Term
Review would determine the extent to which the project is performing against the objectives set for it, and
would carry out a preliminary assessment of the potential for wide scale implementation. Preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report will be initiated by the Bank prior to the project's closing date, in
conjunction with the preparation of the Government's own evaluation report.
D: Project Rationale
[This section is not to be completed in a LIL PAD. Rationale should be implicit in paragraph B: 3.]
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project will develop standardized tests for Grades 4, 5 and 6, and collect detailed school level data that
will allow the Government to compare the "Pedagogie Convergente" system and the involvement of
communities in schools, to other school systems in Mali. The cost-effectiveness analysis will be used to
evaluate the advantages of the high-internal efficiency "Pedagogie Convergente" system compared to the
other primary school systems in Mali. Of course, the difficulty is in capturing all of the relevant costs,
being able to have comparable learning achievement scores between systems, having good questionnaires
and survey tools and information systems to organize and store the data. The project will provide technical
- 1 0 -



assistance to assist in the design of and to help carry out the monitoring and evaluation system.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is very minimal as there is no expansion in terms of investment in
infrastructure and hiring of teachers under the project. The main issue, whether the successfully tested PC
model is replicable and affordable on a large scale is one of the learning outcomes of the project.
3. Technical:
[For LIL, enter data if applicable or 'Not Applicable']
The project addresses issues of bilingual schooling, quality of leaming and educational opportunity
systematically through (a) the development of materials for national languages and the introduction of
appropriate instructional methods in "Pedagogie Convergente" bilingual schools; (b) the evaluation of the
impact of mother tongue instruction on learning achievement; (c) training and professional development for
teachers and school directors; and (d) the development of family/school/community partnerships. Project
components were prepared on the basis of technical studies and in the light of lessons learned as well as
proven and sound educational practice. Project components and related school level interventions will be
implemented in accordance with acceptable standards and monitoring indicators. The project files contain
the mission technical notes on (i) evaluation methodologies, (ii) textbooks production and distribution, (iii)
decentralization of education; as well as (iv) USAID financed evaluations on community schools and"
P6dagogie Convergente" learning results.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The project will be executed by the Ministry of Basic Education, under the leadership of the
Secretary--General and in collaboration with the five technical departments of the Ministry (DNEF, CPS,
DNAFLA, IPN and DAF) at the central level, and with the DRE and IEF at the regional and district levels.
A Steering Committee, chaired by the Secretary General of the Ministry, will be established to provide
overall guidance about the scope and direction the project.
b. Project management:
Project management responsibilities will rest with a Project Coordination Unit, established within the
Ministry of Basic Education. The PCU comprises: a Project Coordinator, Component Leaders for each of
the three project components, an Accountant and a Procurement Specialist. The mandate and job
descriptions for the project coordination unit (coordinator and component leaders) and their relationships
were agreed upon at appraisal. Project management will be carried out by qualified and full-time
government paid staff. The Project Coordinator, including the three Component Leaders, have all been
appointed as have the Accountant and Procurement Specialist. Where needed, implementation capacity
will be strengthened with technical assistance, training, and capacity building. Recent procurement
training has reinforced the procurement capacity in the Ministry. An adequate manual of procedures
details the procurement and financial accounting procedures as well as the implementation plan has been
prepared. The financial management arrangements will be LACI compatible within 18 months of project
effectiveness.
Close collaboration between the PCU and the technical departments of the MEB involved in project
- 11 -



execution (CPS, IPN, DNAFLA, DNEF, DAF, DRE, IEF) will be facilitated by regular Steering
Committee meetings. Consistent with Government efforts toward decentralization, the DRE (Direction
Regionale de l'Education) in collaboration with IEFs, and NGOs, where relevant, will be responsible for
the implementation of project activities at the regional and district levels.
5. Social:
The project will compare the teaching and learning environments of four types of schools in Mali
(traditional French, "Pedagogie Convergente" public and community schools and Centres d'Education pour
le Developpement - CED) to which children have access. The project strategy (improvement of teaching
curriculum and learning in bilingual classrooms using mother tongue instruction in at least six languages),
seeks to increase the participation of boys and girls in both rural and urban areas, and thereby improve the
educational opportunities of all children. Bilingual schooling is expected to ensure pupil access to the
required textbooks, greatly reduce the repetition rates particularly in the early grades, and improve the
quality and relevance of teaching and learning (better learning outcomes).
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: C
There are no environmental issues in the project. However, the science curriculum developed for grade I to
6 will include local environmental issues.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
[For LIL, to the extent applicable]
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The preparation of the project has been very participatory as it has involved the DRE and the IEF in the
preparation of the "Pedagogie Convergente" component through the implementation of the "Etude
Linguistique." NGOs, through Groupe Pivot Education, have been fully involved in developing the manual
of procedures for the community partnerships component including the selection criteria for sub-projects.
The primary beneficiaries will be children in the early years of primary schooling (ages 6-9) and their
parents. The main mechanism through which these benefits will accrue will be by improving the quality of
teaching through the use of local languages in the early years of primary schooling. This innovation is
expected to be particularly beneficial regarding the girls' participation component. Studies already carried
out in Mali (and included in the project files) have demonstrated a higher participation of the latter in
classes using the "Pedagogie Convergente". Teachers and administrators will benefit from training and the
purchase of materials and equipment. Increased community involvement in school-related affairs will build
social capital and adult literacy.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Community leaders and parents will participate as a result of the establishment of school management
committees and the training that they will receive. Five selected communes will participate in developing
and testing a decentralized financial and management system that should enhance their involvement in
improving education service delivery and accountability.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This section is not to be completed in LIL PAD.
- 12 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Little incentive for MEB to develop       S         "Conmmunes" will implement studies and
decentralized financial management                  propose new systems.
procedures.
Insufficient interest on the part of      M         The Project is developing an IEC and
communities and parents to collaborate              awareness campaign that allows for
with a government-sponsored program.                feedback from communities to
Government and support literacy and
management training to communities.
M         Communities will be client for NGOs
and transparency and fairness in
contracting NGOs for project
management and execution will promote
fairness and accountability.
From Components to Outputs
Weak commitment of Government             M         DCA will provide for counterpart funds
demonstrated by a lack of counterpart               to be made available, any change in
funds and qualified human resources                 coordination personnel will require IDA
available in a timely manner.                       non-objection on TORs and
qualifications. The project will provide
adequate technical assistance and
training of local staff.
Lack of commitment and weak capacity      M         DREs are fully involved in project
of the DRE to project implementation                design, supervision, implementation
including donor coordination at local
level. Unallocated project resources
will allow project to respond flexibly to
needs of DRE.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 13-



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
One possible controversial aspect of the project could be getting urban elites to accept teaching in national
languages as a credible education option. By trying to systematically assess the merits of bilingual
education and disseminating this knowledge, the project should be able to gain support-needed to go to a
national scale. Another controversial aspect could be allowing selected communes to design and test
procedures that will allow the MEB to transfer responsibilities to this level, as set out under the
decentralization law. The level of MEB commitment to diluting its power over public resources will be
tested.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) The Borrower will open a project account with an initial deposit equivalent to four months of project
expenditures as defined in the DCA.
(b) The Borrower will recruit financial auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower will recruit short term technical accounting assistance to help the government install a
LACI compatible financial management system.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
During negotiations, the Borrower adopted a project implementation manual, in a format acceptable to the
Bank.
It was agreed, that a draft procurement plan for the second and third years of the project will be finalized
by March 15, 2000.
It was agreed, that the Project Coordination Unit will prepare twice yearly implementation progress reports
for submission to the Steering Committee and IDA for a period of 18 months; after which the project will
comply with the LACI requirements of producing quarterly management reports.
It was agreed, that a mid-term review and an implementation completion review will be undertaken, with
independent reviewers to be engaged for each component with terms and reference to agreed between
Government and IDA which will assess, inter alia, implementation performance and effectiveness in
meeting the project's development objectives.
It was agreed, that the project coordination unit will be maintained for the duration of the project; the
appointment of PCU personnel will require IDA approval.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first six months' activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on standard bidding
documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of LIL
- 14 -



1 3. The LIL's Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. A draft manual of procedures was reviewed during the appraisal mission. A revised and satisfactory
version which will include the implementation schedule for the first year of operations will be transmitted to
IDA before negotiations.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 I. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
)V, g<lAn  aX(7 ,
it  Linda K. English                  Nicholas R. Burnett               Hasan A. Tuluy
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 15 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
KyPerformance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          MOait       & Evlution    Critical ssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Performance of Education  1.1 GER improved from 42%   1.1. I Annual Reports of CPS  1. Appropriate management
System improved in terms of  to 60% and outside of Bamako                       information systems are in
efficiency, equity and access.  from 30% to 50%                                  place.
2. Acceptance of pedagogie
convergente by population and
teaching professionals in
Mali.
3. Decentralization of teacher
management.
4. Involvement of
communities in school
operations.
5. Improvement in sector
financial management.
Follow-on Development
Objective
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
I. Bilingual education     1.1 "Pdagogie Convergente" 1.1. I School records.    1. New skills are being used
(Pedagogie Convergente)    is used in at least 20% of                            by teachers, parents and
successfully introduced in six  non-public schools by end of                     inspectors.
languages and used for     project.
replication.
1.2. Repetition and dropout   1.2.1. CPS records      2. Awareness raised among
rates will be demonstrated to                         decision makers.
be better in participating
"Pedagogie Convergente"
schools when compared to
other school systems.
1.3. Results in reading, French 1.3.1 CPS records     3. 80% of School
and Math will be evaluated                            management committees are
and demonstrated to be better                         still functioning after project.
than in other school systems.
1.4. Cost savings "Pedagogie  1.4.1. Cost-effectiveness study
Convergente" model        linking learning outcomes and
compared to ther systems and  inputs.
schools with active community
involvement
- 16 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Bilingual child centered    1.1. In 70% of participating   1. I. I IEF site visits.
pedagogy in national      schools interactive and
languages and French       individual teaching methods   1.1.2. School reports/diary.
successfully piloted.      are used; and action plans are
developed for non-performing
schools by end of project.
Number of DRE, IEF, CP
trained.
2. Curriculum development  2.1 Learning standards /   2.1.1 IPN/DNAFLA/ MEB
support                    expected competencies / and  reports.
pedagogy for each grade at the
primary level in Reading,
Math (national languages and
French) (Gr. 1-6) and Science
(Gr. 3-6) reviewed and agreed.
3. Family/community/School  3.1 60% of management     3.1. I DRE reports.
partnerships established and   committees adopt a school
operational.              improvement plan (including  3.1.2. External evaluation of
Pedagogie Convergente) after 40 school management
6 months of creation.      committees, report on
enrollment, student learning
and physical condition of
schools in pilot schools and
control schools.
4. Awareness Campaign      4.1 A communication strategy 4.1.1 MEB/PRODEC steering
designed and operational.    aimed at gaining support  committee approval
within communities and     documents.
decision makers is designed by
the I st Q of project.
5. Program for the         5.1 A results oriented system  5.1. I site visits by
decentralization of primary    where the budget, personnel  MEB/PRODEC and an
education designed and tested policy, financial investment  independent evaluator,
in 5 "communes".          plan and resource allocation is training reports if necessary.
focused on results is tested in
5 municipalities by end of
project.
5.2 Best practices identified   5.2.1 Document on best
and disseminated by end of   practices presented to
project .                  authorities.
5.2.2 TV. and radio shows.
- 17 -



Hierarchyof Oljectii ves         Indicao             Mnnitoring &                                   Sl  c
Project Components        I Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Learning to implement    USD $ 3.76 million      Semi annual and annual     1. Counterpart funds and
bilingual education in primary  (IDA US$2.38 million,  project reports including:  qualified human resources
education.                  Government US$0.21      classroom observation studies; available in a timely manner.
million,
1.2 Development and        Netherlands US$1.17
distribution of learning and   million)
teaching materials
1.3 Learning assessment and
'Pedagogie Convergente"
program evaluation
Student achievement tests;   2. Governmnent of Mali
commitment to project
objectives.
Cost-effectiveness study;  3. communities and parents
are interested in participating.
School Improvement        4. Smooth donor
Programs;                 coordination.
Municipal Programs;       5. Smooth inter-institutional
coordination ("communes",
MEB, Ministry of Finance
Decentralization.)
Annual financial and      6. Core staff at Project
technical audits;         coordination unit remains
during the life of project .
Beneficiary Reports.      7. DRE is committed to
project implementation.
2. Testing Family/Community US$0.73 million                                    8. Contractors deliver
/School partnerships.     (IDA US$0.63 million                                 according to Terms of
Government US$0.02                                 Reference.
2.1 Awareness campaign.    million)
Netherlands US$0.08 million
3. Decentralization of the    US$0.54 million
education system.          (Government US$0.02;
IDA US$0.48 million)
Netherlands US$0.04
4. Strengthening          USD $0.48 million
implementation capacity for   (Government US$0. 10
project management and    million
implementation.             IDA US$0.32 million)
Netherlands 0.06
- 18 -



Annex 2: Project Description
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
The project's objective is to further develop and assess the merits of bilingual education in Mali, in terms of
its financial and educational sustainability. To date, bilingual education known as the "Pedagogie
Convergente", has been provided in about 300 public schools in Mali since 1994, reaching a full sixth
grade cycle next year (in 2000). This child-centered pedagogy uses mother tongue (national language)
instruction, concomitant with French, the official language of instruction in Mali public schools. The
"Pedagogie Convergente" approach is in line with evidence from Mali and other countries linking bilingual
teaching methods most closely to improved school performance in terms of greater learning outcomes for
all students. Gains from bilingual schooling have included lower repetition and dropout rates, higher
attendance and promotion rates, and higher scores on all subject matters, including mastery of French,
especially for girls and disadvantaged (or minority language) children. It is expected that these efficiency
gains will gradually increase total educational levels at a lower cost after allowing for the initial higher cost
of bilingual schooling, due to supplementary national language learning materials, teacher training and
supervision. Over time, the project will thus support Government's development objective in the education
sector, which is to improve the performance of the Malian education system in terms of quality, equity and
access to learning.
The project will allow the Government to go to scale with bilingual education in different types of schools
and to determine under what conditions this is applicable and affordable. In particular, the Ministry of
Basic Education will learn: (i) how to revise and experiment the new curriculum in line with the "
Pedagogie Convergente" and to implement and assess, in a participatory manner, bilingual schooling
including in-service teacher training and supervision; (ii) how to revise, produce, and distribute improved
textbooks in national languages through private publishers; (iii) to assess the applicability of
family/school/community partnerships in making schools more effective; (iv) and how to develop a
results-oriented decentralized financial and personnel management system designed and tested in selected
communes.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.76 million
Learning to implement bilingual education in primary schools (Government US$0.21 million, IDA
US$2.38 million, Netherlands US$ 1.17 million)
Objective. The project would support the Government's decision as announced in its official sector policy
PRODEC (Le Programme Decennal de Developpement de l'Education) to introduce, at a national scale,
bilingual schooling in national languages in the early grades concomitant with French as of second grade,
using a proven child centered pedagogy known as "Pedagogie Convergente" (PC). The PRODEC, however,
does not specify the operational strategy that would take bilingual schooling and the " Pedagogie
Convergente" to national scale in an equitable and educationally responsible way. The LIL will allow the
Government to learn how to: (i) further develop and implement bilingual education in line with the new
curriculum goals; (ii) develop and test new and improved textbooks and learning materials in national
language, teacher training approaches, monitoring and evaluation methods focusing on comparing different
types of schools and curricula/teaching methods to which Malian children have access to; and (iii)
determine whether the innovations/interventions are replicable and affordable on a large scale and use the
lessons learned through the " P6dagogie Convergente" schools in expanding bilingual schooling.
- 19 -



Expected Results. Under the project, the number of public schools providing bilingual education through
"Pedagogie Convergente" will increase from the current 309 to approximately 709, increasing the number
of " Pedagogie Convergente" classrooms from about 987 to 1,887. At the end of the project, the
Government expects to have successfully tested the extension of bilingual education in at least 6 national
languages that will be used for replication around the country. The successfully tested "Pedagogie
Convergente" approach is expected to be articulated (included in) with the development of the new
education curriculum and adopted as official policy by the National Assembly. This bilingual education
model would also be used in 20% of non-public schools, as its cost-effectiveness and better learning
outcomes for all pupils will be well-known by stakeholders and expected to result in increased demand for
the approach both in the public and private sectors.
Scope. The project aims to (a) contribute to the expansion of bilingual schooling through the "Pedagogie
Convergente" and to the development of a new basic education curriculum in both national and French
languages in reading, mathematics and French; (b) test the production and distribution of improved
teaching and learning materials in national languages through private publishers; (c) train teachers, school
directors, inspectors and pedagogic advisors in using and monitoring the bilingual schooling and
"Pedagogie Convergente" and (d) test various evaluation and learning assessment tools developed under the
project.
Priority Activities. This component will support three priority activities: (a) the development and
expansion of bilingual education concomitant with the new curriculum, the training of teachers, school
directors and pedagogic advisers; (b) the production and distribution of teaching materials in national
languages; and (c) the development and testing of tools to monitor and pilot classroom and system level
performance.
Girls Education. Each activity is designed with particular attention to girls' education. Program and
textbook content will be reviewed in order to eliminate gender stereotypes and gender bias. In-service
training will be revised to raise awareness among teachers of issues affecting girls' participation in
schooling. Evaluation methods will allow for a better understanding of the particular issues faced by girls
in the course of their schooling and help target interventions that would be supportive of effective teaching
methods for both boys and girls. It is expected that bilingual education will essentially improve the
effectiveness and the pertinence of learning, thereby improving learning results of all pupils and the equity
and cost-efficiency of the system. The following activities will be supported:
(a) Expanding bilingual schooling. Through the work of the Curriculum Committee, (involving the
DNEF, IPN, DNAFLA and teachers), the project will support the: (a) expansion in the number of schools
using "Pedagogie Convergente"; and (b) development of training programs for in-service training for
teachers, school directors, as well as pedagogical counselors and inspectors (DRE, IEF, CP); (c) definition
of learning obJectives and competencies expected for each class and at the end of primary (national learning
standards) and teaching methods for each grade at the primary level in national languages and French in
conjunction with the new curriculum development and program evaluation work.
This component will support: (a) the preparation, utilization and updating of the "national language
information base ("carte d'utilisation des langues nationales"). It is based on the results of a survey of
teachers' linguistic instruction competencies as well as other pertinent language skills information in the
classroom. This survey instrument will be an essential tool to expand the bilingual education program and
will be regularly updated and used as a management tool by the Direction Regionale de l'Enseignement
(DRE). This management tool developed for expanding the "Pedagogie Convergente" schools will include
a national socio-linguistic map of communities and student population by school for the coming school
- 20 -



year; and (b) the development of an operational plan/strategy for introducing new languages and classes in
existing schools as well as in additional schools for the next two years. It is expected that there will be an
additional 400 new " Pedagogie Convergente" schools over a three-year period, starting with grade one and
two, 750 first grade and 350 second grade classrooms, broken down for the various languages in line with
teachers' and pupils linguistic capacity. Teacher orientation and training will be provided in bilingual
education and "Pedagogie Convergente" (about 2,000 teachers and school directors and 284 inspectors and
pedagogic counselors). The existing 300 "Pedagogie Convergente' schools will be maintained, some of
which will now have a complete primary " Pedagogie Convergente" cycle. The project will provide
additional support to these schools (in-service teacher training, textbooks and materials).
(b) Developing the new curriculum. The framework for developing the new curriculum and expected
competencies for each grade will: (a) use an integrated approach to teaching basic skills in mother tongue
instruction concomitant with French as of second grade; (b) emphasize effective problem-solving and
practical applications in time devoted to. study in each subject; (c) complement national examinations with
continuous assessment (curriculum based tests as well as standardized tests for each grade and end of
cycle) of pupils' growth in knowledge and understanding; and (d) harmonize instruction programs with
textbooks, teachers' skill requirements, methods of evaluation and inspection.
This sub-component will finance: (a) two workshops for developing a new pre-service and in-service
teacher training policy; (b) professional training for the curriculum development team of the MEB in
techniques in bilingual program development and evaluation, linguistics, pedagogy and student learning
assessment; (c) teacher orientation and in-service training; (d) computer soft and hardware; (e) two study
tours to learn about bilingual schooling in other countries; (f) three studies dealing with bilingual education,
the new curriculum and learning assessment; and (g) the required technical assistance.
(c) Textbook production and distribution. The project will revise textbooks and teachers' guides for
grades I to 3 in reading-writing in 6 national languages. These titles will be re-edited and printed at about
112,000 copies by private publishers selected through international competitive biding. The project will
also reprint the reading books in French for grades 2 and 3 at 66,000 copies. The delivery of the books to
the inspectorates will be included in the re-edition and reprinting contracts. The communities will be
responsible for picking up the books from the inspectorates as well as ensuring their storage and
safekeeping. The books will be the property of the schools. They will be loaned to students and teachers
free of charge. The project will also supply reference books in national languages (bilingual dictionaries,
glossaries in national languages, etc.). It will provide training in writing and illustration of textbooks in
national languages as well as in book use and care. The project will also evaluate the reading book series
in French in order to bring some of their contents in line with the Pedagogie Convergente curriculum. The
project will also provide technical assistance for the training in textbook development and for the evaluation
of the reading books in French.
(d) Bilingual / "PNdagogie Convergente" program evaluation and learning assessment. Through the
work of a multidisciplinary team from CPS, IPN, DNAFLA and teachers, the project will support the
development and testing of tools to monitor and pilot classroom and system level performance. The
evaluation will focus on comparing the teaching and learning environments of four types of schools in Mali
(traditional French, "Pedagogie Convergente" public and community schools and Centres d'Education pour
le Developpement - CED), as well as on curricula and teachers' methods in the classroom. The objective is
to advance the debate on bilingual education or "Pedagogie Convergente" aiming at improving learning in
primary schools in Mali. This will involve: (a) the construction and experimentation of test items for
teachers' use in the classroom in national languages, mathematics and French for each grade, based on a
comparative analysis of curricula used in Malian schools; (b) construction and experimentation of
- 21 -



comparative tests for fourth and sixth grades in reading comprehension and mathematics to be used in the
four types of schools; and (c) the development and use of questionnaires and a representative survey to
collect and analyze information on various school initiatives and programs ( involving teachers, directors,
comite de gestion) to identify factors that determine school performance.
This sub-component will finance: (a) computer equipment and logistical support to improve the statistical
base at the CPS and the working conditions of the technical teams; (b) training of a multi-disciplinary
evaluation team; (c) the establishment of an information base (Internet, etc) and testing system for first to
sixth grade in national languages, French and mathematics (softwares, etc); and (d) the required technical
assistance.
(e) Management of the Component Currently, there exists a National Committee for the development of
education in national languages which is mainly composed of DNAFLA and IPN specialists. The terms of
reference of this committee will be revised to reflect the new stage of responsibility which requires much
greater coordination between DNAFLA, DNEF, CPS, the DRE, the IEF and IPN. The DRE will become
the focal point for the implementation of the " Pedagogie Convergente" model as it will be responsible for
carrying out and up-dating the national language information base, organizing in-service training,
supervising teachers, distributing of textbooks, and collecting evaluation information. DNAFLA will be
responsible for the revision and development of teaching materials and the organization of teacher training.
IPN will be responsible for student achievement testing and the comparative evaluation of schools. DNEF
will be responsible for coordination of information and evaluation results. Special attention will need to be
given to the changing role of DNAFLA and the DNEF as the " Pedagogie Convergente" moves from an
experimental model to the national education curriculum.
Project Component 2 - US$0.73 million
Family/Community/School Partnerships (Government US$0.02 million, IDA US$0.63 million,
Netherlands US$0.08 million)
(a) Strengthening Community Partnership. There exists in Mali a wide range of models for community
involvement in schooling, from direct community financing of teachers and school construction (through the
Save the Children and World Education approaches), to more traditional levies and fees raised through
parents' committees. Recent experience with community financed schools promoted by international and
local NGOS, has demonstrated the positive impact of parent and community involvement in schools on
attendance and learning outcomes.
Objectives. The proposed project would test several strategies to strengthen partnerships between family,
school and communities with a view to not only increasing the overall effectiveness of schools and learning
achievements, but also to develop the capacity of parents' groups and communities to adequately represent
community interest in school management. Specifically, the project will permit the Government to test the
applicability of the school management committee approaches used by intemational and local NGOS (such
as those employed by World Education, Save, CECI and Paul Gerrin Lajoie Foundation in establishing
community-financed schools) to some 30 to 40 public schools where "Pedagogie Convergente" is being
introduced. It will also permit the Government to learn how to work with NGOS and manage the
contracting out process.
Expected Results. This component will pilot activities in three or four zones in Mali involving parents and
30 to 40 school management committees. Collectively, the activities supported under this component are
expected to result in: (i) improved community awareness of the new curriculum and materials as well as
increased parents' involvement in the life of the school; (ii) active partnerships between communities, IEF,
- 22 -



schools, families and NGOs aimed at making schools more effective; and (iii) functioning school
management committees and improved adult functional literacy.
This component would strengthen the community's role in the administration, management and financial
oversight of primary schools. The project would thus, help to assure transparency and local input through
the period of transition to a more fully decentralized school system. The project will allow the Government
to learn how to collaborate with NGOS and communities and how to manage the contracting out process at
the regional level. In terms of learning the Government will have more know-how about focusing its role on
one of defining policy frameworks, monitoring and evaluating activities rather than one of actually service
delivery. There will also be a better base of information on costs of building community involvement in
schools, and an evaluation of different approaches to community involvement in schooling which will
allow Government to choose the most cost-effective approach for financing under a sector program.
Scope of Activities. This sub-component will finance a variety of activities to improve the capacity of
communities to improve the effectiveness of schools. Communities, with NGOs, will identify the
community's needs and vision and jointly prepare "school improvement" proposals that will be funded by
the project. Proposals could include making parents aware of the new curriculum and materials, create a
pool of parents as potential members of the school management committees, provide administrative and
financial management training to school management committees, help parents give support to children as
they learn to read and do mathematics exercises and other homework, establish book management funds
among other initiatives. The project will finance consultant services, logistics and sub-projects proposed
by communities.
(b) Awareness campaign and community mobilization. The child centered "Pedagogie Convergente"
approach has been successfully experimented over the past 15 years. However, it is used in only 300
schools which is a modest proportion of total schools and in only 30 schools in Bamako, where in fact 60%
of all primary students live. While the capacity to implement such a major pedagogic reform on a national
level is very weak, there is in fact, still resistance by the general public to the " Pedagogie Convergente"
methodology for a variety of reasons, including; (i) it is seen as a second-rate education by rural peasants
to keep them from good jobs and higher education possibilities; (ii) the curriculum is seen as lacking by
educated parents, because it does not include a good math and reading program and the textbooks used to
date have been amateurish and do not look modern; (iii) parents are concerned that children will not learn
French adequately, (iv) there have only been a few children complete the entire cycle and proceed to middle
school - as the sixth grade is only being introduced in 1999 and thus parents are concerned about the child's
capacity to succeed at middle school; (v) while Pedagogie Convergente schools have been successful in the
communities where they have been introduced, these experiments have been dispersed over the country and
there has been little visual impact which has affected parent's demand for this innovative approach; (vi) the
results of existing evaluations have not been widely disseminated.
Objective. The objective of this sub-component will be to develop a communication strategy aimed at
gaining support within communities and by decision-makers for the expansion of the national language
child-centered education system ("Pedagogie Convergente") nation-wide. Without the adoption of a clear
national policy on the new system, there is a danger that the Pedagogie Convergente will end up being a
parallel system for poor children, under-financed, without academic recognition and appropriate links to
post-primary levels. While the first component of the project will result in an operational strategy for
national implementation of the new education system, the Government will need to declare this new policy
as official before the Bank will consider financing national implementation of the new system under a
sector expenditure program.
- 23 -



Expected Results. At the national level, the communications and IEC campaigns financed under the
projects should result in the adoption of the revised curriculum and teaching approach as well as
community involvement in school management by the National Assembly. At the community level, there
will be greater awareness about education, an understanding of the benefits of "Pedagogie Convergente"
when compared to the traditional approach and community support for the new approach to schooling. The
project will also allow the Government to better understand the public perceptions and concerns about the
reforms and address these concerns by modifying its implementation strategy.
Scope of Activities. The project will finance the following activities; IEC and awareness campaigns
including the development of skits, videos, T.V. and radio ads in local languages; workshops and school
visits with decision makers; focus groups in communities and with decision-makers to test the perceptions
on the value of the "Pedagogie Convergente" model in both communities; professional and support staff
and logistics support for the Executing Agency.
(c) Implementation. For the Family/Community School Partnerships management activities the PCU will
make the project known to interested NGOs. NGOS in collaboration with DRE and IEF will undertake an
awareness campaign in the 4 or 5 selected zones. A number of local and international NGOs with
acceptable financial management and institutional capacity and proven experience in literacy training,
establishing and running of school management committees, preparing and implementing school
improvement plans and implementing awareness campaigns at the local level will be eligible to present
community projects to the DRE.
NGOS will work with interested communities to assess and define their needs to improve their involvement
in schools. Together with NGOS, communities can prepare a proposal for a training, capacity building and
monitoring assistance program and submit that to the IFF/DRE who will validate the proposal and then
send it to the PCU. The Steering Committee will review the proposal based on the selection criteria
established in the manual of procedures and select the best proposals. Contracts will be signed between the
NGO and community. NGOs will be granted an advance, and then paid in full as services are rendered.
For the IEC and awareness component the PCU will prepare a communications strategy which will be
approved by the Steering Committee. Local consultants will be contracted to produce the skits, videos and
ads. The PCU will organize workshops and school visits for decision-makers as well as focus groups.
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation. NGOs will submit results of training programs and school improvement
plans. The PCU will establish a data base of trainers, costs, materials, successes. Regular supervision will
be carried out by the DRE/IEF ensuring that contracts are signed, training is taking place, school
management committees are elected, statutes are tabled, minutes of meetings and financial records kept and
school improvement plans are established. There will be a meeting of representatives of school
management committees during the project for an exchange of experiences, to make recommendations for
the next phase and to provide feed-back to NGOS on the quality and relevance of their services.
An evaluation will be carried out under component 1 (see above) to test the effects of school management
committees in existing NGO sponsored community schools, traditional schools with traditional parents'
associations, "Pedagogie Convergente" model schools with an active school management committee and"
Pedagogie Convergente" model schools without an active school management committee. The evaluation
will examine, the school environment, the perception of schools and communities of the sustainability of the
school management mechanism, the relationships between teachers and families, attendance by teachers and
students and student achievements. The project will finance external audits for a sample of community
projects and school management committees to ensure that resources are being properly managed.
- 24 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.54 million
Decentralization of the Education System (Government US$0.02 million, IDA US$0.48 million;
Netherlands 0.04)
Government policy is to transfer responsibility to the 682 newly-established communes and 19 existing
communes for (i) the construction and management of schools; (ii) recruitment and payment of teachers,
development of school development programs; (iii) participation in school mapping exercise: (iv)
participation in the development of curriculum and the school calendar. The Ministry of Basic Education
will concentrate, in the future, its efforts on defining the policy framework, setting national standards,
providing teacher training and supervision, maintaining quality control and providing university education.
Transferring responsibilities for the delivery of primary school services to the communes, defining the
financial resources that will accompany the transfer of responsibilities and designing the institutional
framework has not yet been thought out nor agreed upon with the communes.
Objectives. The project will develop and test an implementation program for the decentralization of
primary education such that the Ministry of Basic Education will be able to effectively transfer
responsibility to the communes. Under the project, the policies and strategies, the means and timetable for
transferring responsibilities to 5 municipalities will have been developed in a participatory manner and
tested in 5 communes.
Expected Result. At the end of the project, the 5 communes will have developed and tested a
results-oriented financial and personnel management system for their primary education services. The roles
and responsibilities for education within the commune will have been agreed on, and mechanisms for
managing relationships between the central government and its deconcentrated services will be established.
There will be a better understanding of the difficulties involved in decentralizing education to the local
level, improved capacity to resolve the difficulties and a more detailed road map to guide the
decentralization process. Specifically the implementation plan for the decentralization of primary school
services will include: (i) an evaluation of the human resources to be transferred; (ii) an estimation of the
costs and an agreement on the financial management mechanisms to be put in place; (iii) harmonizing of
recruitment and pay policy for teachers; (iv) organizational responsibilities at the municipal level for
schools and their relationship with the deconcentrated entities (IEF and DRE); (v) how financial resources
will be equitably allocated between municipalities; and (vi) the adhesion of municipalities to national
education goals and priorities.
Scope of activities. The project will finance consultants services: (i) to undertake a series of studies
including an expenditure study of primary school services, a proposal for equitably financing primary
education, the financial impact and ways of harmonizing the pay and working conditions of teachers
working in communes; (ii) to define and pilot the implementation of decentralization in 5 communes; and
(iii) to evaluate the piloted experiences and disseminate the lessons learned. The project will also finance
training, workshops and a National Steering Committee for the Decentralization Education as well as
Municipal Committees to oversee the studies and piloted experiences.
Project Component 4 - US$0.49 million
Project Management (Government US$0.10 million, IDA US$0.32 million, Netherlands US$0.06)
A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been established to assist the Steering Committee in the day-to-day
management of project activities. The PCU will be responsible for the overall project administration,
financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and overall project implementation and
- 25 -



supervision. The PCU comprises of Government employees: a Project Coordinator, Head for the
Convergent Pedagogy Component, Head for the School Partnership Component, Head for the
Decentralized Financial Management Component, an Accountant and a Procurement Specialist. With the
exception of the Head for the Decentralized Financial Management Component, all members of the PCU
are expected to work full-time on the Project. The Project Coordinator, and the Heads for the Convergent
Pedagogy and School Partnership Components will be housed in the PCU premises. The Head for the
Decentralized Financial Management Component, the Accountant and the Procurement Specialist will be
housed in the offices of the Budget Department (DAF).
The Project Coordinator will have primary responsibility for the overall project management. The Heads
of each of the Project components will be responsible for managing the implementation and supervising the
activities related to their respective components. The Accountant and Procurement Specialist will be
responsible for overall financial/disbursements and procurement management activities, respectively.
During project implementation, additional (short-term) contractual personnel (i.e. an local accounting firm)
will be recruited to assist the PCU in specific areas of accounting, the preparation of accounting reports
and/or provide backstopping assistance as may be needed from time to time.
-26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Local       Foreign        Total
Proiect Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $millon
1. Language of Instruction Reform                          2.36          1.19          3.55
2. Development of Family/School/Community Partnerships      0.60         0.07          0.67
3. Decentralized Management                                 0.47         0.05          0.52
4. Project Management and Implementation                    0.16          0.29         0.45
Total Baseline Cost                                         3.59          1.60         5.19
Physical Contingencies                                     0.04         0.10          0.14
Price Contingencies                                        0.10         0.09          0.19
Total Project Costs               3.73          1.79          5.52
Total Financing Required                3.73          1.79         5.52
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million    US $million
1. Goods (a. Textbooks, b. Equipment, materials, vehicles)   0.36           1.03          1.39
2. Consultant Services and studies                           0.22           0.57          0.79
3. Training                                                   1.86          0.19          2.05
4. School Improvement Plans                                  0.26           0.00          0.26
5. Operating Costs                                            1.03          0.00          1.03
Total Project Costs      3.73           1.79         5.52
Total Financing Required       3.73          1.79          5.52
- 27 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Summary of benefits and costs:
The bilingual system of education has demonstrated much lower levels of repetition and dropout rates in the
schools where it has been introduced than in traditional French only curriculum schools. This improvement in
internal efficiency could have significant financial savings for the government and families (direct costs and
opportunity costs) as it takes fewer years of schooling on average to produce a primary school graduate. In
addition to the different curriculum and pedagogic approach, the success of the pedagogique convergent is also
due to the availability of learning materials, the in-service teacher training and supervision effort, which is
usually not available for traditional schools, and all of which has costs associated to it. The efficiency gains
from the bilingual education can be estimated by using the differential repetition and dropout rates registered
for the bilingual and control student groups and the differential unit cost data to calculate the estimated annual
savings.
The school level data that will be collected under the project will give good estimates of enrollment, repetition
and dropout rates for girls and boys from Grades 1 to 6 and detailed information on family and community
contributions to schools and teacher quality for "Pedagogie Convergente" and other schools. The information
and monitoring systems will also generate other input information such as the cost and quantity of teaching
material and the cost and frequency of supervision. Given that the project will develop standard learning
evaluations for Grades 4,5, and 6, there will be enough information to attempt a cost-effectiveness analysis of
the "Pedagogie Convergente" system to the other three systems (traditional French only, community/NGO
financed and CED). A production function analysis will be used to explain variation in the results of the
standardized achievement tests for Grades 4, 5 and 6 as a result of the different input mixes differentiating for
girls and boys and holding constant for variables such as family income and mothers' education.
A regionalized sector simulation model developed for Mali will be used the calculate: (i) net savings (or net
costs) of the pedagogie convergent system when compared to the traditional system where repetition rates are
on average 15% annually in the first 4 years; (ii) the difference in unit costs and the composition of unit costs
between the two systems; and (iii) the impact that the pedagogie convergent would have if applied to the whole
country (with the given level of infrastructure) on gross and net enrollment rates; the later is extremely
important in Bamako where 20% of the students are located and where the GER is estimated to be 13 8%. The
introduction of "Pedagogie Convergente" could significantly improve net enrollment rates and reduce
investment requirements and the hiring of new teachers in order to meet new demand. These economies will
also be simulated with the model and their fiscal impact estimated. (A copy of the model on diskette is in the
project files).
Fiscal Analysis Summary.
The detailed financial information that will be systematically collected at the regional and school level, will
allow: (i) a more accurate estimation of unit costs in the system and what the true costs are of educating a child
in primary school; (ii) what the most appropriate mix of expenditures (teachers wages, training, learning
materials, supervision); (iii) an informed estimation of the costs associated with attaining UPE and the
concomitant implications for financing of post-primary levels, based on specific assumptions for growth of
Government expenditures and the share allocated to education; and (iv) a better base of cost information for
estimating the regional costs for reaching UPE and how Government resources should be shared between
regions to promote equity of access.
Main Assumptions:
- 28 -



Cost-effectiveness indicators:
- 29 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Years Ending
US$ Thousands (First Table) Millions (Second Table)
.~~~~~~~~~~~T 
Year  I   Year 2      Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts          1808.8     1349.2     1341.8         0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           405.0       308.6      312.3        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        2213.8     1657.8     1654.1         0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0
Total Financing            2213.8     1657.8     1654.1         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    0.5        1.3        2.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                  0.1        0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.6        0.8        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       1.2       2.2         2.1        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
I Year 1| Year 2        Year 3     Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Financing              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
- 30 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Procurement
General. Procurement for goods will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996, in September 1997, and January 1999. Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997, and revised September 1997 and January 1999).
A General Procurement Notice will be published in United Nations Development Business (UNDB) for the
procurement of ICB goods and major consulting assignments and will include a detailed description of
required services or goods, the client agency, and the budgeted cost. This notice will be updated every year
during the execution of the project until all contracts and assignments have been procured. In cases where
contracts exceed the value of more than $200,000 equivalent, specific procurement notices will be issued
seeking expressions of interest through the national press and UJNDB.
The DAF, in collaboration with the Procurement Specialist, will be responsible for managing all
procurement activities. The DAF, who may require short term technical assistance to assist in the
preparation of TORs and evaluations, will carry out two basic tasks: (I) supporting and overseeing the
process of selecting consultants and procuring goods, textbooks, equipment, and other materials required
by the project; and (2) contracting all procurement actions for the Project. Basic procurement tasks will
involve preparing detailed TORs for consultants, specifications for bidding documents, preparation of short
lists, evaluation of proposals and bids (in accordance with criteria set-out in standard Request for
Proposals (RFPs) and bidding documents) and selection/award recommendations.
A detailed Procurement Plan for the first year of the project has been prepared and will be finalized before
Credit effectiveness. Wherever possible, procurement items will be consolidated into appropriately-scaled
contracting packages.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of Goods.
Textbooks. Contracts for textbooks, up to an aggregate mount of US$1.04 million equivalent, will be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for which the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents will be used.
Equipment, Vehicle, Furniture and other materials. Contracts for the procurement of goods (e.g.
vehicles, computers and other office equipment not available locally) would be packaged into larger
contracts wherever possible. Goods with an estimated value of more than US$100,000 per contract will be
undertaken through International Competitive Bidding. Goods with an estimated value of less than
US$100,000 would be procured through National Competitive Bidding. Individual units of office
equipment (individual copying machines, printers, and onduleurs) may be purchased through the
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations. National or International
Shopping procedures, based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers in response to
written invitation, may be used for items available off-the shelf for individual contracts of US$30,000
- 31 -



equivalent or less, for an aggregate amount of about US$200,000. For procurement under local or
international shopping, DAF will follow a modal format for requesting quotations from suppliers or
described in the operational manual. All ICB contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Consultant Services. Consultant services for all four components of the project, including studies,
technical assistance, supervision of works, and training, requiring the recruitment of consulting firms or
individual consultants, and NGOs will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowrers. Contracts for assignments above
the threshold of $100,000 for firms, and $50,000 for individuals will be awarded, following Quality and
Cost Based (QCBS) procedures.
Individual consultants contracts and consulting firms contracts below the threshold of US$50,000 and US$
100,00 respectively may be awarded on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Prior review by the Bank will be required for all TORs and individual contracts above
US$50,000 and, if any, for firms above the threshold of US$100,000. TORs and contracts for any single
source consultancies and training will require prior IDA review. Similarly, technical evaluation report for
contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 will require IDA's no-objection. Contracts for individual consultants
below US$ 50,000, and for consulting firns below US$ 100,000, will be subjected to post-review.
Operating Costs. Project funds would be provided to cover the following incremental operating costs:
fuel, small purchases of office supplies, staff travel and subsistence allowances, maintenance costs of
equipment and vehicles and commnunications charges. The salaries of all Government staff (e.g. Project
Coordinator, Accountant, Procurement Specialist and the three component coordinators), including any
provisions per indemnities will not be financed from the proceeds of the IDA Credit. These expenditures
may be financed by the Government of Mali, in a manner that is consistent with current Government
remuneration policy.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment. Procurement risks are assessed to be average for this project. It
is expected that procurement matters will be explicitly addressed in supervision missions twice during the
first project year, and once per year thereafter.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Category   ICS       PF)rocurementMthd               .F         TslCt
Expenditure Category                        N             t
1. Works                          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.75          0.44          0.20          0.00          1.39
(0.00)        (0.32)        (0. I 1)      (0.00)        (0.43)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          0.78          0.00          0.78
Consultant Services and          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.62)        (0.00)        (0.62)
Studies
4. Training/Seminars              0.00          0.00          2.06          0.00          2.06
(0.00)       (0.00)         (1.83)        (0.00)        (1.83)
5. School Improvement Plans       0.00          0.00          0.26          0.00          0.26
(0.00)       (0.00)         (0.26)        (0.00)        (0.26)
6. Operating Costs                0.00          0.00          0.95          0.08          1.03
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.67)        (0.00)        (0.67)
- 32 -



Total                               0.75            0.44           4.25            0.08            5.52
(0.00)          (0.32)         (3.49)          (0.00)          (3.81)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes goods to be procured through limited shopping competitive bidding, consulting services,
training, studies, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the
project.
- 33 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
Ex7dl~r Catgo.             (IVJSD$ thousandsU          Motho                 (S millions),d
1. Works
2. Goods                 All Contracts >100,000          ICB                       All
< 30,000        Fixed price contracts (up to       None
an aggregate value of
$200,000, awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified
suppliers
>US$30,000 but       NCB up to US$440,000       First three contracts
<US$100,000
3. Servicesfor          >$50,000 for individuals         QCBS              All, including all sole
Consultants                       or                                        source consultancies
>$100,000 for firms                              regardless of amount
<$50,000 for individuals   Qualifications and        TORs, budget,
or                   Experience         qualifications, contract
<$100,000 for firms
4. Training                      N/A            Other procurement methods  TORs and any sole source
to be used (up to an    training regardless of
aggregate amount of           amount
US$2.06 million)
5. Operating Costs               N/A             To be procured following
national commercial
practices
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 34 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
General. DAF would have overall responsibility for activities related to finance, disbursements, and
accounting. It would be supported by an accountant, to be appointed by the Government to specifically
handle the accounting and disbursement matters related to the project. Disbursements would be in
accordance with the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, the Project Implementation Plan, and the
Development Credit Agreement. The proposed allocation of proceeds from the IDA Credit is shown in
Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in Us$iilIlion        Financing Perc.ntage
1. Equipment, Vehicles, textbooks and     0.40           100% of foreign expenditures and 95%
materials                                                        of local expenditures
2. Consultant Services and Studies         0.55                        100%
3. Training and Workshops                  1.60                        100%
4. School Improvement Plans                0.26               100% of amounts disbursed
5. Operating Costs                         0.60                        70%
6. Unallocated                             0.40
Total Project Costs                        3.81          ___              _     _    _
Total                                      3.81
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for contracts below the
equivalent of US$50,000 for individuals or below US$ 100,000 for firms, as well as for all operating costs
and non-consultant based training costs. Above these thresholds, the borrower would submit fully
documented withdrawal applications. LACI guidelines, outlined in the LACI Implementation Handbook,
will be followed after the project is assessed to be LACI capable.
Special account:
To ensure that funds will be available when needed, a Special Account in US$ Dollars will be established
in a commercial bank, under conditions satisfactory to IDA. The authorized allocation of the Special
Account under the IDA Credit will be CFAF 200,000,000. While the initial advance into the Special
Account will be limited to CFAF 100,000,000, the Borrower will be able to claim for the authorized
allocation once a total of SDR 800,000 has been disbursed from the Credit. The advance to the Special
Account is to be used by the Borrower to finance IDA's share of program expenditures under the Credit.
This amount has been estimated to cover about four months of expenditures. The Special Account would
be replenished monthly, regardless of the amount of activity during the month, on the basis of justifiable
documentary evidence of payments made from the account for goods and services required for the project
that are eligible for financing under the IDA Credit.
All supporting documents would be retained by the DAF/Ministry of Basic Education and made available
for review by periodic Bank missions and external auditors. Direct payment by IDA would only be made
for applications totaling at least 20% of the advance outstanding in the special account: $50,000 when the
advance is US$125,000 and $100,000 when the full authorized allocation of US$ 250,000 is made.
- 35 -



Project Accounts. A Project Account would be established in a commercial bank to receive national
counterpart funds to pay for expenditures to be financed by the Government. The Government would make
an initial deposit of 50,000,000 FCFA or equivalent into the Project Account to cover the Government's
initial contribution to project expenditures. Evidence of the initial deposit will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. There after, the Government will deposit an amount equal to the amount of the initial
deposit to replenish the project accounts to their initial level.
Financial Mana2ement
Institutional Arrangements. The project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to
IDA, which will provide the borrower and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources
and expenditures. The financial management systems will include accounting, financial reporting and
auditing elements.
The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be established as a separate entity within the ministry
responsible for execution, the Ministry of Basic Education (MEB). A local accounting firm with proven
experience in project financial management systems has been recruited to assist in the design and
establishment of the financial management system of the PCU. The Unit will be responsible for overall
project administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and overall project
implementation and supervision. The final configuration of the PCU, the profile of the staff as well as their
job descriptions have been described in the Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The relevant internal
control system, meanwhile, will be determined and fully described in the Manual of Procedures to be
prepared by the local accounting firm.
Accounting and Financial Reporting. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will maintain the books and
accounts. They will also be responsible for the production of the annual financial statements. A local
accounting firm with experience in project financial management has been appointed to design a
computerized accounting and financial management system using the accounting software TOMPRO,
based on internationally acceptable accounting principles agreed with the Bank. The firm will also prepare
the accompanying accounting manual, including a proper chart of accounts, the various transaction cycles,
the format, content and periodicity of the various financial statements to be produced, the budgetary
procedures and process (preparation, monitoring, variance analysis, etc.), and the relevant internal controls.
The draft manual has been reviewed and agreed to by IDA. The firm will be responsible for the initial
training of the accounting and financial management staff on the efficient operation of TOMPRO system.
They will also be responsible for the preparation of a training program in financial management with an
implementation timetable for the duration of the project. The selection of the accounting software was
carried out on the basis of its Y 2000 compliant feature, its availability in French , and it could be
supported by a reliable organization
Before credit negotiation and in addition to the assessment carried out during appraisal, a Bank Certified
Financial Management Specialist will carry out a full-fledged assessment of the project financial
management system (adequacy and competence of the accounting and financial staff, relevance of the
manual of procedures, completeness of the accounting system) to determine its soundness and capability to
provide IDA accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures. The
establishment of an adequate accounting and financial management system will be a prerequisite for
submitting the project to the VP for approval.
- 36 -



Staffing. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be staffed with competent and experienced government
staff, including a Project Coordinator (PC), an Accountant, a Procurement Specialist, and the three project
component leaders. Support staff, if required, will to be recruited through a competitive and transparent
process in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association. Adequate provisions will be
made to train the accounting and financial staff.
Project Management Reports. The project was appraised in June 1999 and needs to adopt a financial
management and reporting systems in compliance with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
It has been agreed, therefore, to design the financial management system so that it can produce, in addition
to the basic financial statements (Balance sheet, Income statement, Sources and Applications of Funds),
other relevant quarterly financial management reports, namely (i) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds,
(ii) Contract Expenditures Report - Goods & Works, (iii) Contract Expenditures Report - Consultants,
(iv) Procurement Management Report - Good & Works, and (v) Procurement Management Report -
Consultants, required under PMR-based disbursement. Since the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is a
newly established unit and the capacity of its accounting and financial staff has reinforced through training
and assistance, disbursement will be performed under traditional disbursement procedures for the first 18
months of implementation. It is expected that full PMR-based (Quarterly PMRs) will start in the third
quarter of the second year of implementation till project closing. This will require that IDA carry out a
comprehensive and detailed assessment of the project financial management to determine its full readiness
for PMR at the end of the first year of implementation. A second assessment will be carried out at the end
of the third quarter of the second year of implementation to evaluate and effect the transition to PMR-based
disbursement.
Auditing. During negotiations, the government will provide assurance that: (a) project accounts will be
audited in accordance with international audit standards by an experienced and internationally recognized
audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports and related project accounts will be submitted to IDA
within 6 months after the end of Government fiscal year; (b) in addition to their standard short-form report
with opinion, the auditors will be required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well
as the internal control procedures governing their preparation for the relevant period under audit, and
express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii) review the management and utilization of the special account
and express a separate opinion thereon as well; (c) the auditor will also finalize the review of the internal
control system of the project - - started at interim - - with a view to identify the major weaknesses and
shortcomings and proposing practical recommendations for improvement. The results of this review would
be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit report.
The financial auditors will also perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review the internal
control system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect within one month from
the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports will be addressed by
management without delay before the final audit (mostly 3-4 months after closing of the fiscal year of the
project). The contracting of auditors on a multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, and certification by the
financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
Assessment of the financial management system and sector plan
The evaluation mission reviewed and assessed the financial management system that is being put in place
by the Improving Learning in Primary Schools consisting of: (i) the accounting system; (ii) the budget
system; (iii) internal control; (iv) audits; and (v) financial reporting. The evaluation consisted of verifying
if the financial management system included all the basic aspects necessary to ensure an adequate financial
management and the capacity to provide the reliable financial information, in the desired timeframe
- 37 -



enabling project activities to be managed and supervised efficiently.
The management team for the Project includes; the coordinator, three component leaders (pedagogy
convergent, community mobilization and financial decentralization), an accountant and a procurement
agent. The project coordinator and the other two component leaders will work in the Project Coordination
Unit. The financial decentralization leader, procurement agent, the accountant will remain in their original
department which is the Direction administrative et financiere (DAF). The accountant and accounting
services for the project will be the responsibility of the DAF. The staff of the DAF's experience has been
in the domain of public accounting and has never managed an IDA-financed project. As a result, the
accounting systems will need to be reinforced with technical assistance and training.
The Ministry of Basic Education project has signed a contract with a local accounting firm for the purchase
of the TOMPRO software (with financial, cost and budget accounting) as well as the TECPRO software
for the monitoring and evaluation aspects of project management. The contract provides for a 10 day
training program and maintenance for one year.,
The accounting and financial management system that is being installed is acceptable but does not yet
permit the production of the different financial reports needed under LACI. Consequently, the system must
be reinforced. We recommend the use of traditional disbursement methods and propose a detailed action
plan (see below) which will strengthen the existing system and prepare the project to fully implement the
LACI disbursement procedures within 18 months. These measures include:
*   Hiring of an accounting and auditing company which will design and help put in place an improved
financial management system which includes financial, cost and budget accounting and intemal
financial control for the project. The accounting firm will draft the necessary financial procedures to
accompany the new system, prepare and carry out a training program for staff as well as providing
technical assistance for the first year of project execution. The project appraisal mission approved the
terms of reference for the contract and it was agreed that the selection of the accounting firm would be
a condition of credit negotiation;
* The job descriptions and performance indicators for the project accountant and procurement;
o   Training program for project staff as well as those in the decentralized and deconcentrated levels;
*   Installation of software, verification that it is operational and the training of staff on the software.
Administrative, accounting and financial procedures.
Actions                                               Dates       Responsible
Selection of Accounting Firm                         12/15/99     Coordination
Draft accounting and financial procedures            02/15/00     Consultant
Revision of the draft procedures                     02/28/00     Government/IDA
Submission of the final report                       03/15/00     Consultant
- 38 -



Training program developed                           03/15/00     Consultant
Training of all personnel in using manual of procedures  03/31/00  Consultant
(Coordination/DAF/ deconcentrated entities)
Assessment of financial management capacities,    18 months after  IDA
procurement, and physical execution of the project   project
effectiveness
Implementation of the LACI                        18 months after  Borrower/1DA
project
effectiveness
Information System.
Actions                                     Dates        Responsible
Installation of the software               09/30/99      Consultant
Inputting the training program in the      09/30/99      Consultant
software
Training in using the software             10/15/99      Consultant
Selection of the Auditor.
IDA          Launching   Opening    IDA to review    Opening of       IDA
approval,    of bidding   of          evaluation       financial      Non-objectioE
formal                    technical    report of       bidding        on proposal,
invitation                bidding     technical        documents      selection and
and short                 documents  bidding           (after IDA     signing of
list.                                 documents        Credit)        contract
Financial     09/20/99      09/22/99    10/22/99     11/10/99         11/25/99       12/15/99
Audit
- 39 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
[Project Schedule                                  Plann ed                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       4                            12
First Bank mission (identification)              06/28/98                     06/28/98
Appraisal mission departure                      06/30/99                     06/30/99
Negotiations                                     10/04/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/15/99
Prepared by:
Ministry of Basic Education
Preparation assistance:
Government financing of preparation teams including NGO, private sector and development staff.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Robert S. Prouty                  Sr. Education Specialist
Linda English                     Country Officer
Alassane Diawara                  Sr. Operations Officer
Bettina Moll                      Education Specialist
Habibata Thienta                  Education Specialist
Michel Perrault                   Consultant
Cheick Traore                     Procurement Specialist
Abdoulaye Ky                      Education Specialist
Emilie Barrier                    Consultant
Sakhevar Diop                     Textbook Specialist
Marylou Bradley                   Operations Officer
- 40 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
A. Project Implementation Plan
Commission Nationale de Refondation du Systeme Educatif Malien, Secretariat Permanent, Utilisation des
Langues Nationales dans le Systeme Educatif Malien (Cas de l'Education de Base), Decembre 1995.
Ministere de l'Education de Base, Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, Monographie du Suivi des Ecoles PAQE de la Region de Segou, Mars 1996.
Ministere de I'Education de Base, Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, Rapport d'Evaluation du Rendement des Eleves dans les Ecoles PAQE (Regions de: Kayes,
Sikasso, Segou et Mopti), Aofit 1996.
Ministere de I'Education de Base, Ministbre des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, Evaluation du Rendement des Eleves dans les Ecoles Pilotes PAQE et Dans Un Groupe
d'Ecoles Temoins (1996).
Abdoulaye Ky, Reflexions sur les Difficultes Qui Ont Jalonne l'Extension de la Pedagogie Convergente,
1998
Minist&e de I'Education de Base (MEB), Projet de Manuel de Procedures, I re version, juin 1999.
Republique du Mali, Programme Decennal de Developpement de l'Education: Les Grandes Orientations de
la Politique Educative, mai 1998.
Ministere de I'Education de Base, Evaluation de la Pedagogie Convergente et des Performances dans les
Ecoles Communautaires World Education, septembre 1998.
Ministere de l'Education de Base, DNAFLA-IPN, Rapport de Synthese des Activites de Pedagogie
Convergente, septembre 1997.
Ministere de l'Education de Base, Cellule de Planification et de Statistique, Indicateurs du Systeme
Educatif du Mali, Avril 1999.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
A Serie of Technical Notes produced during the Project Pre-Appraisal Mission:
1) Decentralisation au Mali : Proposition d'Appui dans le Cadre du Projet "LIL" de la Banque mondiale.
2) Pedagogie Convergente : L' Apprentissage des Langues (premiere et deuxieme) a l'ecole primaire.
3) LIL Evaluation des Composantes.
4) La Composante des Manuels Scolaires du Credit d'Innovation et d'Apprentissage.
Financial Simulation Model
C. Other
Muskin, Joshua A. (March 1997). An Evaluation of Save the Children's Community Schools Project in
- 41 -



Kolondieba, Mali.
Diemond, Jed. (August 1998). Community Schools in Mali: A Comparison of Save the Children/USA and
World Education.
USAID/Mali, Evaluation du Projet de Developpement de l'Education de Base (PDEB), mars 1998.
World Education, Etude de Base sur l'Education dans la Region de Segou, avril 1998.
*Including electronic files
-42 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Difference between expect
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb       Orig  Frm Rev
Number of Closed Projects: 46
ML-PE-40652    1999 GOV OF MALI                 INTEG HEALTH SEC INV                  000        40.00       0.00       3814      8.30      0OC
ML-PE-35617    1998 GOVTOF MALI                GRASSROOTS HUN/POVT                    0 00       2150        0.00       18.19     1.34      0 0C
ML-PE-1738     1997 GOVERNMENT OF MALI         IRRIG PROMOTION                        0.00        4.20       000         323      0.52      00C
ML-PE-1750     1997 REPUBLIC OF MALI            URBAN DEVT & DECENTR                  0.00       80.00       0.00       69.48    1534       0CC
ML-PE-48651    1997 OMVS                       REGIONAL POWER                         0.00       17.10       0 00       12.13     457       0.0C
ML-PE-1735     1996 GOVERNMENTOF MALI          ECONOMICMGMT                           0.00       60.00        0.00       947     1178      119e
ML-PE-1746     1996 GOVERNMENTOFMALI           VOCATIONALEDUCTRNG                      0.00      13.40        000        841      438       0CC
ML-PE-34617    1996 GOVTOFMALI                 SELINGUE REHAB.                        0.00       27.30       000        11.23     897       0CC
ML-PE-1755     1995 GOVERNMENT                 AGRO-PROCESSING TRD                     0.00       6.00        000        2.52     1 81      1 81
ML-PE-1730     1994 GOVERNMENT OF MALI         TRANSPORT SECTOR                       0.00       8500         000       25.98    1540       338
ML-PE-1751     1994 GOVERNMENT                 AG.RESEARCH                             000       20.00        0.00       6.49     554       06E
ML-PE-1747     1993 GOVT OF MALI                PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                   000       12.00       0.00        588      657       0 OC
Total:      0.00      365.50       0.00     211 15     85.52     17.84
Active        Closed
Projects       Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       154.22         909.53        1,063.75
of which has been repaid:        0.00          59.25          59.25
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       386.90         794.55        1,181.45
Amount sold:         0.00           0.00            0.00
of which repaid:        0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:      211.15            0.50         211.65
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 43 -



MALI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1992/97            SOMISY                           9.00    10.01     0.47    13.50     9.00    10.01    0.47    13.50
1994               AEF Hotel Bamako                 0.54     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.54    0.00     0.00     0.00
1995               SEMOS                           21.00     0.00     4.80    15.00   21.00     0.00     4.80    15.00
1996               AEF GGG                           0.65    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.65    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997               SEF Grand Hotel                   1.62    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.62    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:         32.81    10.01    5.27    28.50    32.81    10.01    5.27   28.50
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
-44 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALI: IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Sub.                                                    101/9S
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan       Low-
Mali     Africa   income      | Development diamond'
1997
Populationr mid-Vear (millions)                          10.3        614      2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                        260        500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          2.7        309       722
Average annual growth, 1991-91
Population (36                                            2.6        2.7        2.1
Labor force (%)                                           2.6        2.6        2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                    capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)      63                              ita
Urban population (% of total population)                   28         32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           50         52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  118         90        78
Child malnutrition N% of children under 5)                 31         ..        61                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                     48         44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       68         43        47
Grossprimary enrollment (% of school-age population)       42         75        91              Mali        Low-income group
Male                                                     51         82       100
Female                                                   33         67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996       1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             0.89       1.7        2.7        2.5
Grossdomesticinvestment/GDP                     14.2     20.4       26.0       23.3                      Trade
Exports of aoods and services/GDP               11.7     15.0       19.3       25.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       3.5     -1.1       10.7       13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                       2.5      5.6       15.7       16.2
Current account balance/GDP                     -9,0    -14,8      -10.3       -7.1      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                            0,1      0,7        2.2        0.8            sInvestment
Total debt/GDP                                 42.2    102.6       113.5      116.3      Savings
Total debt service/exports                       5.3     20.5       19.0       10.2
Present value of debt/GDP                          .        ..      47.6
Present value of debt/extorts                     ..       ..      205.8
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    1.0       3.2      4.0        6.7        5.0              Mali        Low-income group
GNP Der capita                        -0.9       0.3      1.2        3.4        1.9
ExPorts of goods and services          7.6       6.7      4.6       49.2        4.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996       1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                               30
Agriculture                                     58.4     42.4       48.1       49.2        T
Industry                                        10.4     16.0       16.6       17.3     20-       i
Manufacturing                                  5.7       7.2        7.1       7.0      1 0
Services                                       31.1      41.6       35.3       33.5       o
Private consumption                            88.7      88.3       78.7       74.5    -10      92          94   95   96
General government consumption                   7.8     12.8       10.6       11.9                -     GDI        !-GDP
Imports of goods and services                  22.3      36.5       34.6       35.1
(average annual growfh)                     1976-86  1987-97        1996      1997       Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                      0.6      3.6        1.2        2.8     7
Industry                                         2.6      5.9        8.7       21.7     s-
Manufactunno                                   6.0       4.7       6.1        4.6
Services                                        -0.7      1.7        5.6        3.9     25
Private consumption                              1.9      1.6        5.5       -2.1
General government consumption                   4.1      1.0        0.0       19.8             92                95   96   97
Gross domestic investment                        2.5      5.5        4.0       -4.4     2
Imports of goods and services                    9.8      2.1        6.6        5.9              -     Exports     m    nlports
Gross national Product                           0.9      3.1        4.3        6.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-45 -



Mali
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                          4
(% change)
Consumer prices                                                       6.5      -0.7      30
Implicit GDP deflator                           11.0      -1.4        6.3       1.8      20
Government finance                                                                       10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       0  '                      9      9;7   97
Current revenue                                           16.5       17.1      17.0    -10              93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                     0.8        5.1       3.8              -     GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -10.6       -6.0      -6.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                       206        434        562     1,C00
Cotton                                                    74        264       276
Gold                                                     47          78       201       s_0
Manufactures                                                                           6C .  .  .             *ot
Total imports (cif)                                       484        772        751       400
Food                                              .       8 1       113       10994                                 5 9    9
Fuel and energy                                           78        102       105       200
Capitalgoods                                             141        226       221         0
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..       74         94         78
Import price index (1995=100)                              77         97         88                 iExports       Urmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..       96         97         89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)  '1976  19S6  '1996  1997  Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                    112      257        514        644           l
Imports of goods and services                    190      626        920       889
Resource balance                                 -78     -369       -406       -245
Net income                                        -9      -25         -63       -62
Net current transfers                              7      139        196        126
Current account balance                          -80     -254       -273       -180    I-1
Financing items (net)                             83      215        399        178
Changes in net reserves                           -3       39       -126          3     -,5s
Memo:
Reserves includingr qold (USS millions)            7       20        439        421
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)               239.0    346.3       511.6     583.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             374    1,756       3,020     2,945
IBRO                                             0        0          0          0                      0G83
IDA                                            54       277        915       939
Total debt service                                 7       62        117         74                                       939
IBRD                                            0         0          0          0
IDA                                             0         3         13        14
E: 1,234
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 39      155        217       220
Official creditors                              28      161        117         75
Private creditors                                1        0        115          0     |                               C 176
Foreign direct investment                        3       -8         23         15
Portfolio equity                                 0        0          0          0                           D 513
World Bank program
Commitments                                    26        37        181        21      A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   13       45         84        75    IB-IA        D- Other multiateral    F - Private
Principal repayments                             0        1          7          7     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       13       44         77        67
Interest payments                                0        2          6          7
Net transfers                                   13       42         71        61
Development Economics                                                                                                        10/1/98
-46 -



12                              MA0 1                                     6                                                   20 4                i-                             2'                       40
MAU                                      I    5lJT
IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLSI                                                                                                              -                                                 R
;                                          /             ; .    I               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  L G  E R I A
REGIONAL DIFFERENCES-1 996/97
Gross Enrollment Ratio by                                                                                                     ,             _                          -                          20_
-20                           Region   n   by Sex                                                                                                                                       . .
BOYS            >         >          GIRLS                                                                                                                                                              20 
BOYS                                                      I                                                                                      ' 4\   .,    , KIDAL
50% 75%  100%    100%  75%  50%                           j                                                                                        33.2%  20.3%  -             i        .-
Source: Ministry of Edocaion, Mali                                                                                                                       
TOMBOUCTOU                                                              OKidal '             -
-18                  0    SELECTEDCITIESANDTOWNS                                  I                                                                                      -.
9)   REGION CAPITALS                                         j                      '                                             .-'                          - _                             1   18
69 NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        j;                                                                           t                   
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION REGIONS                                                      33.7%  24.2%
-. -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                               ,                                       BouremTOMOU
TOMBOUCTOU                .-A>,  K.tGO       
-16  MAURITANIA  I   ... ,t   wt ,,   Rhrous    t   5G      o         {;> ;                    -  -GA O
r   \  (_  S?  _  _  _  _ 3t& * - \ -> -iffri<, / e | o , 16-~~c~  la- 
MAURITANIA                                                               G ouma                             a
16'8ehJ,4rrK.9A>r. t                    ;f  lil   0    SIKA550  -g~   t                                                    RILOMETERS  ps   _                              _ I                            .i NIGER
I~ ~ ~ ~~u                                                        7;78    K                  -  0  Menclkd
J    C'                                              ONOX~ +Annongo~                                                                                                                              { J1jX    t  &  (s'  1   >  r8isn7upw*spnoduerdbyllwMopDesirnUndofirhvW  zi  _    ,  \onrci
m-   he ( 1Yuvrou 1.                                                                                                                                                                r
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          I G E-
o( )  K      o~o'Ioe 6-                                                                     Diemiine             o 
BnosKoror 
z                                  ~~~~'  14'P             6
2'46    341               Kolokqni   Bnab       -                                                                  RK N
- ~~.i  ~~~~OKito~~~  *UK9R   EGOUJ53U5R%KI N4
KOU  Sf(_QU~~~~~~~~~                                          F A  SO 0                                                           ALGERIA
Or-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
2      p*-_,.                            9    j)      i i o' .                                                                                                    MAURITANIA       I'
CAPITI~~~~~~~~LAREA~~~~~~~~                                                        0    50   100  150  200  250                                              MA
Bou9ounj                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                  J.*NIGER--
z.                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~h;, -op n,p,nd-cd by it., Mop D)osgo unit of flo Wo4d Brok 
~~17~~j  34 4% ~                                   TfM 6-d-rk~o.o-4nuo       -d lnodoy  ior,04-        {,,       BAMAKO   /BuRK
1~   5~7%344%  %~-~      OkhdroIo                    oh- on tooo p d.notinpIy on th.po   ofTh Wdd BaokKNAFS
'0  2   1537%   I   .0%    io'  =G  J     Nt/  :p]Ii-(_ 6                                                       0roy4on of -1, oIootu6ionl,rIo,ooyGUINEA                                                 REN     NIGERIA   C)
153 1%                                                                                                                                                                     11A  8EI 4' 



