Report No. PID7993
Project Name                     Mali-Community Based Schools
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           EE - Education
Project                          MLPE58770
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Republic of Mali
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Basic Education
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 21, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         June 30, 1999
Projected Board Date
1. Country and Sector Background
(a) Low enrollments in basic education including gender and regional
imbalances: Gross schooling rates in Mali,   at about 50% at primary level in
1998 are among the lowest in the world. This rate is much lower in rural
areas (30% on average) and for girls (25% in average in rural areas). In
Bamako, the GER is estimated at 1389 due to early and late enrollments.    In
order to increase enrollment rates in rural areas, especially for girls, it
is necessary to reduce the opportunity cost, in particular by lowering the
repetition and dropout rates, building schools closer to communities and by
adjusting the curriculum and introducing literacy education for parents. The
community schools experience shows that this goal can be achieved in Mali.
(b) Poor learning results in primary schools: Student learning achievement
at end of primary and lower secondary schooling have been declining over the
years (from 64% to 56%) in both urban and rural areas.    The quality of
teaching and learning is poor as is demonstrated by both input and output
indicators: apart from the "Pedagogie Convergente" schools few resources are
allocated for improving the quality of learning; the pupil/textbook ratio is
very low in both French and national languages; the national curriculum is
not very well adapted to the linguistic, social and economic context of
children; teaching methods and classroom practices are inadequate or
outdated; repeater and drop-out rates in primary school are high and
completion rates are low.
(c) Poor accessibility of education for all children: Overall, there is
inadequate coverage of primary schools for the rural and peri-urban
population. The admission rate is about 52%; 60% for boys and 43% for girls.
In some areas, this rate is as low as 25% for boys and 19% for girls.    The
recent growth in community schools, mainly supported by NGOs (via USAID, CIDA
and FED) has improved access for rural children and girls as schools have
been built closer to the community and with significant community
participation in both financing and managing schools.    Approximately 1,500
community schools have been established in the regions of Koulikoro, Sikasso
and Kayes and are being introduced in Mopti, Segou and Gao. This experience
is very positive, indicating that attendance, learning outcomes in the early
grades of SAVE schools and the World Education schools are better when
compared to traditional schools. (The evaluations prepared by IPN, USAID and
World Education are in the project files).



(d) Low efficiency of public education: The development of public primary
education is constrained by low internal efficiency resulting in high unit
costs.  Intra-sectoral budget allocations need adjusting: about 20% of the
current education budget finances scholarships for secondary and university
students leaving few resources for other non-wage quality enhancing inputs.
Another issue is the relatively high wage levels for teachers when compared
to per capita income. Even if the average wage levels remain modest compared
to other civil servants, they are creating an obstacle to the expansion of
the system and the improvement of quality. Relying on the expansion of a
community financed system, essentially supported by parents, risks creating
more inequity in Mali as poor and marginalized families cannot afford to run
schools. Equally, the quality of education is not systematically addressed in
these schools.
(e) Central management of the education system: Except for community level
initiatives (currently, USAID and UNICEF have extensive projects working at
this level of service delivery) and the existing "Pedagogie Convergente"
public and community schools there has been little regional involvement in
managing and planning the system, and little interministerial coordination.
While the Ministry of Education has some good technical departments,
particularly in evaluation (IPN), statistics, (CPS) and bilingual education
(DNAFLA), the overall management capacity remains quite weak due to very
little management training, poor working conditions, high turnover of
management staff, and, little use of decision making tools and weak
accountability to parents and students for budget decisions. In order to
improve the quality of teaching outside Bamako, it would be necessary to
strengthen the deconcentrated management, primarily the DRE and IEF which are
responsible for in-service training, supervision and inspection, payment of
teachers and working with communities. Moreover, teacher recruitment
policies would benefit from a flexible and decentralized system that would
put more emphasis on management at the local level thereby increasing
accountability.
Government's policy on decentralization is outlined in Laws No 95-034 and 98-
010 article 14. It gives the municipality responsibility for the
establishment and management of pre-primary, the first level of basic
education (grades 1 to 6) and literacy training. There are currently 19
municipalities in Mali, and after the June 1999 elections, 682 new
municipalities will be formed. The decentralization law does not define the
specific responsibilities that will be transferred nor the financing that
will go with these responsibilities. Rather, it is up to each Ministry to
define what responsibilities and services and the time-frame will be
transferred to the municipalities.
Government strategy:
In 1998, the Government presented to donors a ten-year education sector
program (PRODEC), focusing on reaching universal primary education with a
primary enrollment rate target up to 70% and improving the quality and
outcomes of education. A key strategy to reach this goal is to provide
bilingual schooling, using mother tongue instruction in the early grades
concomitant with French as of the second grade. This bilingual education
model, or "Pedagogie Convergente places the child and its socio-linguistic
environment at the center of teaching and learning. This pedagogy is in line
with proven practices aiming at quality and equity goals in primary
education, as well as cost-effectiveness in producing a primary education
graduates (see Guatemala Bilingual Education 1995). For instance, evaluation
-2 -



carried out by IPN and USAID in Mali have demonstrated that children's
learning achievements in mathematics and French are better than for those
children who are taught the traditional French medium of instruction
curriculum. Schooling rates are also higher for girls in the bilingual
schools as compared to the French medium of instruction schools. Based on
the relative performance of students in the bilingual schools in Mali so far,
one may safely assume that they will perform well or better at the end of
primary school, if an adequate learning environment is provided. This
includes necessarily pedagogic materials in national languages, trained
teachers in the "Pedagogie Convergente" approach and adequate teacher
supervision and in-service training. One would expect these inputs in any
school, apart from the bilingual materials and pedagogy, to improve teaching
and learning.
At present, there are four types of primary schools in Mali, two of which
provide bilingual education: 309 public schools and 777 community schools
(Save the Children). The public schools have introduced the "Pedagogie
Convergente" approach and national language instruction progressively since
1994 as of first grade. At present, only half of these schools have reached
5th grade in Bamanankan, Fulfulde and Soray. The "Save the Children" schools
teach in the mother tongues without applying the "Pedagogie Convergente",
although they are expected to do so as of next school year with
DNAFLA/government support. The "Pedagogie Convergente" approach, in addition
to using mother tongue instruction, is based on an age/grade organization of
schooling and integrates practical and like skills with basic skills (3Rs)
instruction through individual, group learning and/or peer tutoring lessons.
This approach to learning makes multigrade classroom teaching possible,
although most "Pedagogie Convergente" schools are not multigrade. Teachers
in these schools benefit from additional in-service training in both the
national languages and the "Pedagogie Convergente". Moreover, the "Pedagogie
Convergente" experience is to provide the basis for the development of the
new national curriculum for basic education (8 grades) in the context of
PRODEC goals. Indeed, over the past 10 years the government has been
committed to innovating the national curriculum, first by introducing the
"Pedagogie Convergente" in public schools and by learning how to collaborate
with community schools and NGOs in the promotion of cost-effective primary
schooling. Under the project, in support of PRODEC, the Government intends
to further develop its national basic education curriculum concomitant with
the expansion of the "Pedagogie Convergente". Other donor support will be
provided by USAID and bilateral partners (Canada, Holland notably Germany).
Indeed, over the past 10 years the Government has been committed to
innovating and learning how to collaborate with public "Pedagogie
Convergente" schools, communities and NGOS in order to replicate the cost-
effectiveness aspects of bilingual public and community run schools and apply
them to the whole public school system. For instance, evaluations carried
out by IPN and USAID have demonstrated that children's learning achievements
in math and French are better than for those children who are taught the
traditional curriculum. (These evaluations are included in the project
files.)
As regards decentralization, each Ministry is to define what responsibilities
and services under what time-frame will be transferred to the municipalities.
The PRODEC has defined the specific responsibilities which are (i) the
construction, equipment and management of schools; (ii) the recruitment and
payment of teachers; (iii) the preparation of municipal school development
-3 -



programs; and (iv) participating in the definition of school mapping,
curriculum and the school calendar. The Ministry of Education will transfer
both responsibilities and the financial means to municipalities while
improving both equity in the access of the population to public resources for
education and the quality of service delivery. An implementation plan for the
decentralization of primary school services will be developed and will
include: (i) an evaluation of the human resources to be transferred; (ii) an
estimation of the costs and an agreement on the financial management
mechanisms to be put in place; (iii) harmonizing of recruitment and pay
policy for teachers; (iv) organizational responsibilities at the municipal
level for schools and their relationship with the deconcentrated entities
(IEF and DRE); (v) how financial resources will be equitably allocated
between municipalities; and (vi) the adhesion of municipalities to national
education goals and priorities.
While the project will focus on developing and expanding bilingual primary
schooling in Mali as an integral part of the new basic education curriculum
(8 grades), other donors, such as USAID, will focus their support on
curricular revisions, related professional training and teacher education.
The formulation and integration of life skills instruction into the
curriculum (hygiene, nutrition, sex education and reproductive health), as
well as incorporation of goal-friendly pedagogy and classroom practices and
female teacher support, are part of the USAID Youth Strategy in Mali.
Government intends to strengthen its institutional capacity and coordination
mechanisms for implementing PRODEC over a ten-year period. Donor
coordination will be vital to guarantee (ensure) educational sustainability
and equity in particular as regards the development of a national basic
education curriculum reflecting the various types of education offered.
Without such an inclusive strategy the goal of universal primary education
will be at risk.
2. Objectives
The project's objective is to further develop and assess the merits of
bilingual education in Mali, in terms of its financial and educational
sustainability. To date, bilingual education known as the "Pedagogie
Convergente", has been provided in about 300 public schools in Mali since
1994, reaching a full sixth grade cycle next year (in 2000). This child-
centered pedagogy uses mother tongue (national language) instruction,
concomitant with French, the official language of instruction in Mali public
schools. The "Pedagogie Convergente" approach is in line with evidence from
Mali and other countries linking bilingual teaching methods most closely to
improved school performance in terms of greater learning outcomes for all
students. Gains from bilingual schooling have included lower repetition and
dropout rates, higher attendance and promotion rates, and higher scores on
all subject matters, including mastery of French, especially for girls and
disadvantaged (or minority language) children. It is expected that these
efficiency gains will gradually increase total educational levels at a lower
cost after allowing for the initial higher cost of bilingual schooling, due
to supplementary national language learning materials, teacher training and
supervision. Over time, the project (AAA) will thus support Government's
development objective in the education sector, which is to improve the
performance of the Malian education system in terms of quality, equity and
access to learning.
The project will allow the Government to go to scale with bilingual education
- 4 -



in different types of schools and to determine under what conditions this is
applicable and affordable. In particular, the Ministry of Basic Education
will learn: (i) how to revise and experiment the new curriculum in line with
the "Pedagogie Convergente" and to implement and assess, in a participatory
manner, bilingual schooling including in-service teacher training and
supervision; (ii) how to revise, produce, and distribute improved textbooks
in national languages through private publishers; (iii) assess the
applicability of family/school/community partnerships in making schools more
effective; (iv) and develop a results-oriented decentralized financial and
personnel management system designed and tested in selected municipalities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Not to be included in a LIL PAD. However, the project will allow the MEB to
start to learn how to work in a constructive and collaborative way with NGOs
and communities. While other donors are involved in the education sector in
Mali, none are working in this interface. As well, the project will permit
the Government to gain knowledge on how to implement the pedagogic reforms
that are necessary to improve the quality of education in Mali. while the
Government's strategy calls for this reform, it does indicate how it will be
carried out. This software aspect of sector reform has been overlooked by
other donors, but once tested it will allow for a much more rapid expansion
and improvement of the system thereby allowing the Government to reach UPE
earlier and making investments of all financiers more effective.
4. Description
1. Language of instruction reform using national languages and French. This
component will finance the production and distribution of textbooks and
learning materials, training of teachers, school directors, inspectors and
pedagogic advisors and evaluation of student learning, teacher quality.
2. Family/Community/School partnerships. The component will finance training
of school management committees, adult literacy and community awareness as
well as school improvement projects.
3. Decentralization of the education system. The component will finance
consultancies, workshops to develop, test and decentralize financial and
management procedures in 5 municipalities.
4. Other project management. The project will finance technical assistance at
the training, logistics and equipment costs for the project coordination
level and at the level of the DAF for the financial management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0.18
IBRD
IDA                      3.8
Total Project Cost       5.5
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 3 years
Executing agencies: Ministry of Basic Education (MEB), Executing agency for
the Partnerships component.
-5-



Project coordination: MEB.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): Project Steering Committee.
The project's Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary General of MEB will
be composed of the MEB Management Committee as well as the Director of the
PRODEC technical unit (cellule technique) and representatives of the
Ministries of Finance and Decentralization. The Steering Committee will be
responsible for project oversight, which will include approving the
communication strategies for the Community Partnerships components and for
the decentralized financial and personnel management systems; ensuring the
appointment of the National Steering Committee for Decentralization of
Education; reviewing annual performance indicators and annual implementation
plan; formally transmitting the project audits to IDA; and approving policy
documents prepared under the project that will be needed for going to the
next phase. These latter include; (i) the policy statements, laws and
regulations that will see the adoption of the "Pedagogie Convergente" model
by the National Assembly; (ii) the best practice document summarizing the
testing of the decentralized financial and personnel management system.
The project management will be ensured by a full-time project coordinator who
will report to the Secretary General of the MEB and Component Leaders (the
"Pedagogie Convergente" component, the community partnerships component, the
decentralization component and the DAF) who are appointed to the relevant
divisions within the MEB.    The project team will be responsible for
preparing and implementing the annual activity program, preparing documents
for the Steering Committee's annual review meeting; processing and managing
contracts and ensure the financial management of the project.
Currently, there exists a National Committee for the development of education
in national languages which is mainly composed of DNAFLA and IPN
specialists. The terms of reference of this committee will be revised to
reflect the new stage of responsibility which requires much greater
coordination between DNAFLA, DNEF, CPS, the DRE, the IEF and IPN. Special
attention will need to be given to the changing role of DNAFLA and the DNEF
as the "Pedagogie Convergente" model will be taken to scale. Coordination
with external partners (donors) will be essential. The DRE will become the
focal point for the implementation of the "Pedagogie Convergente" model as
it will be responsible for carrying out and up-dating the national language
information base, organizing in-service training, supervising teachers,
distributing of textbooks, collecting and validating evaluation information.
The curriculum committee will be strengthened, including the DNEF, IPN,
DNAFLA and teachers, to review and update curriculum. DNAFLA will be
responsible for the revision and development of teaching materials and the
organization of teacher training. IPN and a multi-disciplinary team will be
responsible for student achievement testing and the comparative evaluation of
schools. DNEF will be responsible for coordination of information and
evaluation results.
For the decentralization component, which is piloting and testing the
development of new financial and personnel decentralized procedures, a
National Steering Committee for Decentralization of Education will be
established, composed of representatives of the MDIR, MEB, Ministry of
Finance. This committee will be responsible for reviewing the terms of
reference for the studies to be carried out, establishing the Municipal
Steering Committees which will oversee the carrying out of the studies, and
- 6 -



developing a communication/dissemination strategy
The Government will contract out the management for the Community
Partnerships component and will be responsible for: (i) making the project
known to communities and NGOs some of which will submit proposals for funding
for literacy, management training for school management committees and other
capacity building assistance; (ii) reviewing the sub-project proposals to
ensure that they satisfy the selection criteria for NGOS (have statutes,
demonstrated experience, bank account for project) and communities (project
is for building capacity to manage schools, build awareness of education,
there is an appropriate organizational structure); (iii) convening the
Technical Committee to review and select the best sub-projects according to
the selection criteria established in the manual of procedures and select the
best proposals; (iv) ensure contracts are signed, funds disbursed and sub-
project implementation is supervised in collaboration with the DRE/IEF and
the Cellule technique of PRODEC.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The DAF of MEB
will be responsible for accounting and financing reporting. Accounting
records will be kept for all project-related expenditures and financing,
following generally accepted accounting principles. The computerized project
financial management system, TOMPRO, will be used and will be LACI
compatible. Project accounts will be audited annually by internationally
accredited and independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Disbursements under
SOEs will be audited semi-annually.
A contracted accountant will be hired to ensure the project's accounting as
well as a local accounting firm will be contracted to provide short-term
technical assistance. The management of the community involvement component
will be contracted out to an experienced entity with acceptable financial
management system.
Monitoring and evaluation activities: The mechanisms for monitoring and
evaluation will be clearly different. Monitoring will be done at various
levels by the respective managers by processes ranging from day-to-day, to
regular review meetings and IDA supervision. Monitoring will depend on
information gathered by the project and evaluation will use in addition to
routine data, studies/surveys and evaluations done with some external
support and reviewed by IDA.    The project will help developed and test
monitoring and evaluation tools at the classroom and system levels. This
will involve (a) curriculum-based diagnostic tests, grades 1 to 6, for
teachers' use in the classroom; (b) standardized tests for grades 4, 5 and
6 for learning assessment in different school settings. For system
evaluation, the tools developed and tested will include school and
community questionnaires, school data banks and a sample survey which will
be carried out in 2001.
Regular monitoring of project activities will be done through the creation
of the following tools and which are indicated in the logical framework;
school records, DRE and IEF supervision reports, formative evaluation
reports, school data bank (using school surveys and questionnaires),
student tests, NGO training reports, community activity reports
(beneficiary focus groups). The appraisal mission will agree on a
detailed time-table and responsibilities for monitoring activities.
-7 -



Overall, the process of establishing baseline information will contribute
to strengthening testing capacity and putting in place national learning
standards. In addition, the Monitoring and Evaluation process will allow
monitoring the impact of pedagogic reforms and community partnerships on
the cost-effectiveness of the system. Focus groups will be used to
complement the implementation monitoring of reforms at the community level
in order to assess perceptions of parents and communities. The project
will reinforce the capacity of the IPN, the PRODEC "Cellule Technique"
and the DRE to carry out evaluations. (A detailed technical note is
included in the project files.) To assist in the monitoring and the
various evaluation aspects of the project, the Government will select and
hire international technical expertise on a permanent offer basis, on
which it can draw expertise on a needs basis. The TORs for this technical
assistance will be agreed upon during appraisal. The technical assistance
will among other things assist in developing the methodologies for the
comparative evaluation of learning outcomes for grades 4, 5 and 6 using
standardized tests and school level data to be collected under the
project. The school sample will include the four different schools
settings (traditional, Pedagogie Convergente, Centre d'Education pour le
Developpement (CED) and community/NGO financed schools). As schools using
"Pedagogie Convergente" are doing so on a voluntary basis, focus group
analysis will minimize the potential bias as a result of selecting the
schools.
7. Sustainability
The project will help set in place a sustainable framework for pedagogic
reform in primary education.    The project's overall approach is based on the
premise that quality education contributes to sustainability, particularly
when all stakeholders are involved in the delivery of services. The proposed
management and evaluation strategy will monitor costs and effectiveness and
disseminate best practices helping with the nationwide implementation of the
LIL. The monitoring and evaluation strategy should help ensure that the LIL
becomes a national policy and be successfully implemented to avoid supporting
a parallel system for poor children. Ultimately, the Government will need to
formalize the "Pedagogie Convergente" as a national policy if the Bank is to
provide financing for scaling up.
Long term sustainability, however, may be an issue. If education is not
sustained in an equitable and educationally responsible way and if a
financially sustainable framework is not put in place. If the project is
successful and merits scaling up, long term sustainability will depend on
sufficient financing, and sufficient interest by the non-governmental sector
to support the development of "Pedagogie Convergente" in community financed
and private schools, to provide literacy programs and to integrate the LIL
objectives into their development activities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This section is not to be included in a LIL PAD. However, the project is
incorporating lessons learned from the IDA PAIB project working with
communities as well as the experiences on NGO involvement in education
service delivery and community capacity building in Mali in the projects run
by SAVE, World Education, CECI and Paul Gerrin Lajoie which all demonstrate
the importance of responding to the demands of communities, involving
communities fully in the design and implementation of sub-projects, the
importance of transparent and efficient contract management and the
- 8 -



effectiveness of NGOs in mobilizing and working with communities. The
experience on contracting out project implementation from the Senegal
Literacy Project is being incorporated in the project design.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         There are no environmental issues in the project.
However, the science curriculum developed for grade 1 to 6 will include local
environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Robert S. Prouty
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7532
Fax:         202-473-8216
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 30, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



