Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3318-MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Improving Learning in Primary Schools Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 26, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3318 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 26, 2000, between the Republic of Mali (the Borrower) and 
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"FCFA" means "Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency 
of the Borrower; 
(b)
“Community" means a geographic administrative entity in the territory of 
the Borrower; 
(c)
“DAF" means Direction Administrative et Financière, a division in MEB (as 
hereinafter defined) in charge of administrative and financial matters; 
(d)
“MEB" means Ministère de l'Education de Base, the Borrower's Ministry in 
charge of basic education; 
(e)
“PCU" means project coordination unit, the unit within the MEB 
responsible for the carrying out of the Project; 
(f)
“Pédagogie Convergente" or "PC" means a package of educational measures 
based on specific child-centered pedagogy the core ingredient of which is the 
bilingual teaching of basic subjects in the mother tongue of the pupil, concomitant 
with French, the official language of instruction of the Borrower, in the first six 
levels of basic primary education, as further defined in the Program;
(g)
"PRODEC" means “Programme décennal à horizon mobile retenu pour le 
dévéloppement du secteur de l’éducation” - the Borrower’s ten year rolling education 
strategy; 
(h)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“Project Implementation Manual" or “PIM" means the Manuel d'Exécution 
adopted by the Borrower on December 23, 1999, and referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia: (i) arrangements regarding 
implementation including disbursement and procurement, management, monitoring, 
supervision, and evaluation of the project; (ii) the annual work program and budget 
for the first year of the project; and (iii) any other procedures to be used for the 
purpose of implementing the Project, as such may be amended from time to time with the 
approval of the Association and such term includes any schedules and annexes to the 
PIM; 
(j)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k)
“School Improvement Pilot Activities” means any number of activities 
developed by a basic school community in partnership with the respective school 
administration, designed to improve the effectiveness of learning; 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(m)
“Steering Committee" means the Comité directeur, the Borrower's committee 
in charge of basic education policy decisions, assessment of Project results and 
coordination of the Borrower's educational policy.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
Page  3
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2010 and ending August 1, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
Page  4
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
educational, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)
open an account in FCFA in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, and thereafter maintain said Project Account under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of 
FCFA 50,000,000; and (ii) thereafter, replenish the Project Account by the amounts 
required to finance the Borrower’s share of expenditures required for the execution of 
the Project, agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project other than those financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future extension 
of the results of the Project; and (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity 
to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any Part thereof.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records;  
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals; and
(v)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower,  not later than 18 
months after the Effectiveness Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
each of which: 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, (work program and 
budget) and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for 
the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report and explains 
variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets, as the case may be; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
Page  6
(b)
Upon the development of the project management reporting system, the 
Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period, and the fourth quarter report shall be 
supplemented with an annual report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: The Borrower has: 
(a)
established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(b)
appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
appointed a financial specialist/accountant in PCU and established a 
Project accounting and financial information management system in PCU, acceptable to 
the Association. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for economy 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Integration BP E-3062
Bamako
Republic of Mali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
Page  7
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (Expressed 
% of Expenditures
Category
in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
     300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
100%
Services for:
(a)
studies, 
   1,500,000
training 
and workshop
(b)
school 
     200,000
improvement 
pilot 
activities
(3)
Operating costs
     450,000
70%
(4)
Unallocated
     350,000
TOTAL
   2,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “goods" means manuals, textbooks, vehicles, office furniture and 
other related equipment required for the implementation of the Project; 
(b)
the term "foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
and
Page  8
(d)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office 
supplies, vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, travel, supervision and 
audit costs, but excluding salaries of officials and public servants of the Borrower's 
civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure: (i) for expenditures for training activities 
and operating costs, (ii) for goods under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, (iii) for services under contracts with consultant firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each, and (iv) with individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen development and evaluate the 
results of bilingual education in the territory of the Borrower, taking into account 
financial and educational sustainability.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Bilingual learning reform in basic education
1.
Design and development of: 
(a)
a basic educational curriculum in six selected national languages and in 
French in the subjects of reading, mathematics and French; and 
(b)
tools to monitor classroom and sector level performance and carrying out 
evaluation activities through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Production, acquisition and distribution of textbooks, teaching and learning 
materials in six selected national languages for grades 1, 2 and 3 to selected 
schools. 
3.
Provision of training in PC to selected teachers and school administrators and 
pedagogic advisors.
4.
Strengthening institutional capacity in MEB for pedagogic program evaluation and 
learning assessment through the provision of training and workshops, the acquisition 
of computer equipment and related software and other equipment.
Part B:
Testing Family-, Community- and School-Partnerships for Effectiveness in 
Learning and 
School Performance
1.
Design, development and testing of:
(a)
training modules on adult literacy;
(b)
participatory operational strategies to strengthen partnerships between 
the family, the school and the community to increase school effectiveness and local 
capacity for school management; and
(c)
communication strategies, including awareness and information, education 
and communication campaigns to support the expansion of PC in selected national 
languages in the territory of the Borrower through the provision of technical advisory 
services.
Page  9
2.
Carrying out of School Improvement Activities in selected basic primary schools.
3.
Strengthening of institutional capacity of MEB at the central and regional 
levels to support participatory management through the provision of technical advisory 
services, training, workshops and seminars, and acquisition of equipment.
Part C:
Decentralization of the educational system of the Borrower
1.
Carrying out of studies and workshops to develop and test the decentralization 
of financial management and administrative management procedures in five selected 
Communities of the Borrower, through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to carry out an evaluation of the pilot 
experiences and disseminate lessons learned.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services, training and workshops to the Steering 
Committee in the areas of evaluation, assessment and guidance for enhancement of its 
capacity to oversee the studies and test activities.
Part D:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity in Project Administration.
1.
Provision of technical advisory services and training in Project administration 
to selected staff of PCU and DAF and acquisition of equipment.
2.
Carrying out of annual Project performance evaluations.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, 
and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  10
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $440,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, as the case may 
be, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract under Parts B.1, C.1 and C.2. of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract for firms 
and less than $50,000 per contract for individual consultants may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B of the Project may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
Page  11
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Manual 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation 
of the Project. 
2.
The Borrower shall maintain until the completion of the Project policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Steering Committee and the Association, semiannually until the 
completion of the Project, for the first time by April 30, 2000, or such other date as 
the Association shall agree, until the time the Association shall receive the Project 
Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, for its review 
and comments, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; 
(b)
furnish to the Association, within four weeks following the submission of 
the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this paragraph the opinion of the Steering 
Committee; and
(c)
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission 
of the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, said report and the 
report referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  12
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Steering Committee's and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall, by December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 
2000 or such later date as the Association may agree, carry out jointly with the 
Association an annual review of the Project (Annual Review), and shall take all 
actions it considers necessary to ensure, in such Annual Review, the participation of 
representatives of parents- community- and teacher organizations pertaining to schools 
applying PC.  Such Annual Review shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of 
the Project including, inter alia, the proposed work programs to be carried out during 
the following year and related budgets; and
(b)
Promptly following said Annual Review, the Borrower shall carry out said 
work programs in accordance with the PIM and the modalities and procedures approved by 
the Association, if any.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by June 30, 2001 or such other date as the Association shall agree upon, 
the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a mid-term review (Midterm 
Review). The Borrower shall take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the 
participation of representatives of parents-, community- and teacher- organizations 
within PC-method applying-schools in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall 
cover the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project;
(b)
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, established by an 
independent consultant recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Annex 3 to this Agreement pursuant to mutually acceptable terms of reference, on the 
implementation of the Project, including, inter alia: (i) effectiveness of training; 
(ii) adequacy of institutional arrangements and operational strategies, and (iii) 
implementation of part B.3 of the Project in view of the evaluation criteria set forth 
in Schedule 6; and
(c)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association 
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement 
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project:
(a)
maintain within PCU the following staff with qualifications and 
experience, satisfactory to the Association: (i) the Project Coordinator, (ii) three 
component leaders for each of the activities set forth under Parts A, B and C of the 
Project, respectively, (iii) a specialist in charge of finances/accounting, and (iv)a 
procurement specialist. The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for furnishing to 
the Steering committee and the Association, for review and comment, the Project 
progress reports; and
(b)
maintain the Steering Committee, under the chairmanship of the Secretary 
General of MEB, with membership of the directors of MEB technical departments, a 
representative of the Cellule Technique du PRODEC, established by Decree 
No. 98 231/PM-RM, dated July 9, 1998, of the Borrower, and representatives of the 
Fédération Nationale des Associations des Parents d'Elèves et d'Étudiants du Mali, 
established pursuant to their internal statutes, dated September 25, 1992, validated 
by récépissé d’association no. 1065 of the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of 
Territorial Administration and Security, dated October 14, 1992.
7.
The Borrower shall, within three months after the Effectiveness Date or such 
later date as the Association shall determine, carry out a study pursuant to Part C.2 
of the Project establishing a communication strategy aimed at gaining support within 
communities and decision makers for the PC method and submit said study to the 
Association for its review and comments, and implement the recommendations of said 
study taking the Association's views into account.
Page  13
8.
The Borrower shall, by March 30, 2000, or at such later time as the Association 
shall determine: (a) furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a draft 
procurement plan for the second and third year of Project implementation; and (b) by 
April 15, 2000, adopt said plan, taking the recommendations of the Association into 
account.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of FCFA 200,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of FCFA 
100,000,000 plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 800,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested; and 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify; and 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  14
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures, as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Monitoring, Outcome and Development Indicators
A.
Performance Monitoring Indicators
1.
Annually reviewed:
(a)
Interactive and individual teaching methods are used in 70% of 
participating schools in each year during Project implementation; and
(b)
60% of school management committees adopt a school improvement plan 
within 6 months.
Page  15
2.
Reviewed at mid-term of the Project
(a)
learning standards and expected competencies have been developed for each 
grade at the primary level;
(b)
baseline data collected for comparing drop-out and repetition rates in 
the PC and other schools for the cost-effectiveness study; and
(c)
new evaluation systems and school data banks have been established and 
are operating.
B.
Outcome and development indicators
1.
Outcomes at Closing Date:
(a)
the PC method is used in six languages in approximately 700 (seven 
hundred) schools in the territory of the Borrower;
(b)
students' repetition and drop out rates are lower in schools applying PC 
than in comparable other schools; and
(c)
test scores for student skills in reading, French and mathematics will be 
higher in schools applying PC than in comparable other schools.
2.
Development impact:
(a)
the introduction of the PC method is demonstrated to be more 
cost-effective than other teaching approaches at the primary level after allowing for 
the initial higher cost of supplementary national language learning materials, teacher 
training and supervision; and
(b)
equal access to learning materials has been established, measured in one 
textbook per student in PC applying schools for grades 1-3 in six national languages.
