                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27345

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-22951 IDA-33180)

                                                  ON A

                               LEARNING AND INNOVATION CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.8 MILLION (US$3.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                                FOR THE

                     IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS PROJECT




                                              March 8, 2004




Human Development 2
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective as of October 31, 2003)

                                               Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                                     CFA 590 = US$ 1.00
                                                     US$ 1.00 = CFA 590

                                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                               January 1    - December 31

                                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AE      Teaching Academies                                      Académies d'Enseignement
APE     Parents' -Teachers' Association                         Associations de Parents d'Elèves
CAP     Pedagogical Acitivity Centers                           Centres d'Animation Pédagogique
CAD/DE  Department of Decentralization/Deconcentration          Cellule d'Appui à la Décentralisation et à
                                                                la Déconcentration de l'Education
CECI    Canadian Studies and International Cooperation          Centre Canadien d'Etude et de Coopération
                                                                Internationale
CGS     School Management Committees                            Comités de Gestion Scolaire
CGE     Education Management Committees                         Comités de Gestion d'Education
CMDT    Textile Development Corporation of Mali                 Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des
                                                                Textiles
CNEB    Directorate for Basic Education                         Direction de l'Education de Base
CNE     National Education Center                               Centre National de l'Education
DAF     Administration and Finance Unit                         Division Administrative et Financière
DGMP    General Directorate for Public Procurement              Direction Générale des Marchés Publics
DRE     Regional Directorates for Education                     Directions Régionales de l'Education
EMIS    Education Management Information System                 Système de Gestion de l'Information en Education
GRIP    Grassroots Initiative Project                           Projet d'Assistance aux Initiatives de Base
ICB     International Competitive Bidding                       Appel d'Offres International
IDA     International Development Agency                        Agence Internationale de Développement
IFM     Teacher Training Institutes                             Instituts de Formation des Maîtres
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan                            Prêt au Développement des Connaissances et à
                                                                l'Innovation
MBE     Ministry of Basic Education                             Ministère de l'Enseignement Fondamental
NCB     National Competitive Bidding                            Appel d'Offres National
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization                           Organisation non-gouvernementale
PAAA    Improving Learning in Primary Schools Project           Projet d'Appui à l'Amélioration des Apprentissages
                                                                dans les Ecoles Fondamentales
PC      Bilingual Education                                     Pédagogie Convergente
PCU     Project Coordination Unit                               Unité de Coordination du Projet
PISE    Education Sector Investment Program                     Programme d'Investissement dans le Secteur de
                                                                de l'Education
PRODEC  Ten-year Education Development Program                  Programme Décennal pour le Déeloppement. de
                                                                l'Education
SIP     Sector Investment Program                               Programme d'Investissement Sectoriel
SMC     School Management Committee                             Comité de Gestion Scolaire
UNICEF  United National Children's Fund                         Fonds des Nations Unies pour l'Enfance
USAID   United States Agency for International Development      Agence des Etats-Unis pour le Développement
                                                                International




                                            Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
                                          Country Director      A. David Craig
                                           Sector Manager       Alexandre Abrantes
                  Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Abdoulaye Ky

                                             MALI
             IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                     33
Annex 9. Background and Context for the Project                                  35
Annex Map                                                                        36

Project ID: P058770                                                  Project Name: Improving Learning in Primary Schools
                                                                     (LIL)
Team Leader: Shobhana Sosale                                         TL Unit: HDNED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 8, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Improving Learning in Primary Schools (LIL)              L/C/TF Number: TF-22951; IDA-33180
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (63%); Sub-national government administration
                            (20%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (17%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Access to urban services for the
                            poor (P); Education for all (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/14/1999                                     Effective: 01/15/2000                10/05/2000
     Appraisal: 06/30/1999                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  10/07/2002
      Approval: 01/21/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALI/MINISTRY OF BASIC
                                           EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      Government of the Netherlands

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicholas R. Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Abdoulaye Ky                                   Linda English
ICR Primary Author:             Shobhana Sosale


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

        The overall objective of the Project was to further develop and assess the merits of bilingual
education in Mali, in terms of its financial and educational sustainability. To achieve the objective, the
approach taken was to introduce a bilingual education model known as "pédagogie convergente" (refer to
Annex 9 for background and context) in six languages as the basis for introducing curricular revisions,
producing textbooks in keeping with changed curricula, testing the teaching and learning materials, testing
student achievement at end-of-project to determine the efficacy of using pédagogie convergente, and
building community partnerships to elicit local level support for introducing pédagogie convergente at
primary education level. Pédagogie convergente is characterized by the use of mother tongue/national
language as the primary language of instruction during the first year of schooling with progressive
introduction of the French language during the second year and beyond until the second cycle of schooling
(Grades 7-9).

        The Project development objective was consistent with: (a) the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Mali, which was to increase the quality of and access to basic education while maintaining cost
at affordable levels; and (b) the Government's ten-year program for developing the education sector
(PRODEC). The objective was relevant, responsive to key issues regarding the use of the pédagogie
convergente model, and consistent with the government's overall strategy for human resource development.
The objective was clearly stated with defined key process, output and outcome indicators. The Project
development objective was appropriate and relevant to Mali's education sector. The pédagogie convergente
approach is in line with evidence from Mali and other countries [Belgium (MBE and ADEA, May 2003);
Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, Bolivia, Paraguay, Brazil, Haiti, Nigeria, the Philippines, Canada, New Zealand
and the United States (Cummings and Tamayo 1994; Chiswick 1996; Patrinos and Velez 1996; Dutcher
1997)] linking bilingual teaching method with improved school performance and, particularly, greater
learning outcomes for all students.

        The Project was designed as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) at a time when the education
system was: (i) facing low enrollments, including gender and regional imbalances; (ii) suffering from poor
learning results in primary schools; (iii) experiencing low efficiency in public education; (iv) characterized
by poor accessibility to education for all children; (v) using a wide range of models for community
involvement in schooling; and (vi) managed centrally. The learning and development issues of the Project
included: (i) Further developing pédagogie convergente and related curricula, including producing
textbooks in national languages in line with new curricula and distributing them; (ii) Monitoring and
evaluation; (iii) Testing systems and procedures; (iv) Participation; (v) Accountability; and (vi) Literacy.
The project design was, therefore, relevant to the needs of the primary education sector.

        The roles and responsibilities of the implementing agencies were clearly defined. A Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) staffed by government employees was established to carry out project
administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and overall project
implementation and supervision. At the regional level, the Directions Régionales de l'Education (DRE)
were responsible for: (i) implementing the training program for teachers, school directors and pedagogic
advisors in pédagogie convergente; (ii) organizing the community mobilization campaigns in collaboration
with local NGOs; (iii) managing the selection process for the school improvement projects submitted by
communities; (iv) monitoring the use of project funds at the community level; (v) managing the distribution
of textbooks to schools; (vi) providing inputs for the preparation of annual work programs and budgets to
be reviewed and consolidated at the central level; and (vii) preparing progress report on status of project



                                                     - 2 -

implementation at the local level.

3.2 Revised Objective:

          The original objective remained unchanged throughout project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

          To achieve the objective, the Project had four components:

          Component 1.         Learning to implement bilingual education in primary schools (US$3.76
million). This was the most critical component for achieving the Project objective, and it received the
largest share of the project funding. The purpose of the component was to systematically introduce the use
of the pédagogie convergente model as the basis for curricular revisions, to test systems and procedures to
produce teaching and learning materials to suit the new curricula, to improve quality of education by
training teachers, school directors, inspectors and pedagogic advisors in the use of pédagogie convergente,
and to monitor and evaluate student learning. Towards achieving this purpose, the Credit supported the
introduction of systems and procedures to: (i) develop curriculum using the pédagogie convergente model
as the basis; (ii) revise, produce, publish and distribute textbooks in six national languages; (iii) train
teachers in the areas of pédagogie convergente model and active learning methods; and (iv) monitor and
evaluate student learning.

          Component 2.          Testing Family/School/Community Partnerships (US$0.73 million). The
objective of this component was to foster partnerships at the local level, to assist the Government to
streamline the prevailing diverse approaches to school management and financing by setting up new
community/family partnerships to promote learning and sharing of experiences, to provide financially
sustainable approaches to expanding primary school coverage and quality, and to improve understanding of
community partnerships. To achieve the purpose, the Project supported: (i) the establishment of School
Management Committees (SMCs); (ii) training for SMCs; (iii) improvements for adult literacy; (iv)
campaigns to raise community awareness; and (v) the systematic use of school improvement projects.
Within the context of community partnerships, this component aimed to develop Government's capacity to
contract out functional literacy services to NGOs and involve communities in decision-making.

          Component 3. Decentralizing the Education System (US$0.54 million). The purpose of this
component was to improve local level accountability by moving the responsibility for service delivery from
the government's side closer to the beneficiaries (students, parents, communities). Towards this end, the
Project was designed to: (i) clarify roles and responsibilities through consensus/agreement; (ii) test various
procedures for developing a management and decision-making system that would allow authorities to be
accountable to its citizens; (iii) provide a role for local communities in the preparation of school
improvement plans in collaboration with school directors and inspectors, thus rendering schools more
accountable to parents and students; and (iv) assist central government authorities to prepare evaluation
reports and develop communication strategies which would increase their capacity to report on activities to
Parliament and the public in general, thereby increasing their accountability.

          Component 4. Strengthening implementation capacity for project management and
implementation (US$0.49 million) The purpose of this component was to strengthen Ministry level
administrators' capacity to manage project implementation. The Credit financed: (i) technical assistance;
(ii) training; (iii) logistics and equipment costs for project coordination; and (iv) financial management.




                                                        - 3 -

         Project components 1, 2 and 4 were appropriate and relevant to achieve the development objective.
Component 3 was premature and not linked directly to achieving the Project objective.

3.4 Revised Components:

         The four components of the Project remained unchanged throughout the Project implementation
period.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Satisfactory. The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory as the Project was relevant, responsive to
key issues regarding the use of the pédagogie convergente model, and consistent with the Government's
overall strategy for human resource development. Project design was consistent with the Bank's CAS for
Mali [dated May 26, 1998 (Report No.17775 MLI)] which supported the use of a Learning and Innovation
Loan (LIL) operation to enable the Government to commence implementation of its ten-year education
development plan (PRODEC) and to go to scale with the pédagogie convergente model. Project design was
the result of extensive consultations with stakeholders at community and school levels, and participation by
Government officials at central and regional levels. The earmarking of nearly 68 percent of the Credit for
Component 1 on learning to implement the pédagogie convergente model in primary schools was
appropriate. The Project focused on building capacity at central, regional, and community (parents,
teachers, school directors, students) levels. The overall project design was rational and addressed key issues
in the sector in an achievable and realistic manner. By and large, project risks were realistically identified,
and risk minimization measures were adequately incorporated into project activity plans.

         There was no formal Quality at Entry criteria in effect at the time of project preparation and
appraisal. Nevertheless, the project design followed the essential standards of the Bank Quality Assurance
Group regarding: (a) technical, environmental and social aspects and lessons learned; (b) financial
management; and (c) Borrower's commitment, ownership participation and readiness for implementation.
International experience in designing and implementing bilingual education was factored into the Project
design.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Satisfactory. The Project objective of strengthening bilingual education by increasing the pace of
its application in primary schools was satisfactorily tested. The majority of the Project outputs were
achieved (refer Sub-section 4.2 for details), and they are in line with the Government's ten-year program
policy framework (PRODEC). They have helped to increase the momentum for the sector investment
program (SIP) which operationalizes PRODEC.

         The output indicators (Annex 1) were clearly specified. The main outcome indicator specified was
to introduce pédagogie convergente in six languages in approximately 700 schools in Mali by end of the
Project. The target was achieved. The model was effectively implemented in the six selected languages and
about 2,056 schools had introduced pédagogie convergente by the end of the Project. Three qualitative
outcome indicators were specified for the Project: (i) demonstrating repetition and dropout rates to be better
in participating pédagogie convergente schools when compared to other school systems; (ii) evaluating
results in reading, French and Mathematics for pédagogie convergente schools and demonstrating these
results to be better than in other school systems; and (iii) cost savings of pédagogie convergente model



                                                     - 4 -

compared to other systems and schools.

         (a) Demonstrating repetition and dropout rates to be better in participating pédagogie
convergente schools when compared to other school systems: The Project outcome was satisfactorily
achieved because the use of the pédagogie convergente model has resulted in repetition and dropout rates
averaging 3.7% and 1.6%, respectively, over the 1999-2002/03 period, which are much lower than in
traditional schools, where the same rates are 18.1% and 5.7%, respectively.

         (b) Evaluating results in reading, French, and Mathematics for pédagogie convergente schools
and demonstrating these results to be better than in other school systems: The Project outcome was
satisfactorily achieved. Test results show that students of pédagogie convergente schools out-performed
their peers in traditional schools. Towards the end of Project implementation student learning in Grade 5
was conducted in languages (French and national languages) and mathematics. Comparable tests were used
for both types of schools. In spite of the fact that pédagogie convergente schools are more predominantly
located in rural areas and are, therefore, expected to have lower student achievement rates, actual
evaluation results indicate that they had better performance (see Table 1 below). In addition, students in
pédagogie convergente schools know how to read and write in one of the national languages, while other
students lack this competency.

                         Table 1. Post-Project Evaluation Test Scores (2002-2003)

                 Test Scores                              Traditional Schools                Pédagogie Convergente
                 N (100, 15)                                                                             Schools
           Mathematics                                             98.2                                   102.2
            French                                                 99.9                                   100.2
           National Languages                                        -                                      99.7

           Source: MBE. Evaluation de la performance en français, en mathémathique et en langues nationales des élèves
                   des classes de 5ème année des écoles à pédagogie convergente et des écoles classiques du premier cycle
                   de l'enseignement fondamental au Mali. August 2003.
                   Test scores in Mathematics, French and national languages have been normalized at 100 to fit a standard
                   distribution; the standard deviation is 15.


         The scores show that in mathematics pédagogie convergente students achieved 102.2 points in the
range of learning tests whereas traditional students were at 98.2. This statistically significant difference
suggests that teaching mathematics through pédagogie convergente (using national language instruction)
contributes to improving the level of student performance in the subject. In French, the test scores for
pédagogie convergente students was 100.2 against 99.9 for traditional education students. While these
figures are more or less similar, they seem to demonstrate that even though pédagogie convergente schools
use a national language as the medium of instruction in the first year of primary schooling, students tend to
pick up a second language (French) very quickly, since they have the foundation of various concepts, and
reach a level of proficiency slightly higher than that of their counterparts in traditional schools.

         (c) Cost savings of pédagogie convergente model compared to other systems and schools with
active community involvement: Efficiency gains can be attributed to introducing pédagogie convergente in
the classroom. Efficiency gains relate to lower repetition and dropout rates for pédagogie convergente
education than for traditional education. Cost savings are related to lower repetition and dropout rates (for
details refer key performance indicator (i) above). The unit cost for pédagogie convergente education is
estimated to be 26,594 CFAF, and for traditional education, it is estimated to be 24,588 CFAF (for details
see Annex 3). The reason for the difference is that an additional textbook in national language is needed for



                                                               - 5 -

pédagogie convergente education. When wastage through repetition and dropouts are factored in, the total
cost for a student to complete the primary cycle of education in traditional public schools is 202,722
CFAF, whereas it is only 159,342 CFAF for pédagogie convergente education (for details refer Annex 3).

         Analyzing the Project outcomes in key performance indicators (a) (b) and (c) above, and based on
the data in the Table, it can be concluded that pédagogie convergente education is more cost-effective than
traditional/classic education and, therefore, leads to a reduction in the cost per primary school graduate.

4.2 Outputs by components:

         Component 1.       Learning to implement bilingual education in primary schools (US$2.50
million) (Highly Satisfactory). The main output indicator specified for the Project was that bilingual
education (pédagogie convergente) is successfully introduced in six languages and is used in at least 700
schools in Mali by end-project. The Project contributed towards expanding the use of the pédagogie
convergente model progressively to assist the Government's vision of covering the majority of public
primary schools eventually.

         This was the most critical component of the Project, and it received the largest share of the project
financial allocation for implementation. This component contributed substantially to the government's
sector policy of using bilingual education in primary schools. Interviews with parents revealed overall
satisfaction with the performance of the retrained teachers and the positive impact of the Project on student
learning, school attendance and improved disposition of children to go to school. At project-end, about
2,056 public school classrooms (1,256 public schools and 800 community schools which are considered to
be in the non-public domain) were finally using the pédagogie convergente model, against only 300 at
project-start. This was a significant achievement as it required that over 5,640 teachers be trained and
about 150,000 students (11.6% of total gross enrollments of 2002-03,) of which 44% girls, be exposed to
the pédagogie convergente methodology in less than 3 years of time.

         An implementation assessment of the component activities revealed that:

         Activity 1: Introduction of a system and procedures to develop new curriculum for bilingual
education. The overall output of this activity was highly satisfactory. Learning standards, expected
competencies and pedagogy for each grade at the primary education level in reading, mathematics (in
national languages and French) for Grades 1-6 and in Science for Grades 3-6 were approved and
implemented. The Project helped to systematically introduce pédagogie convergente as the basis for
curricular revisions, to test revised curricula, and procedures to produce teaching and learning materials to
suit the new curricula. Pédagogie convergente is the heart of the Malian primary education curriculum.
The old curricula had several disciplines. Through the Project, new curricula were developed and tested in
all primary education subjects for the three cycles at the basic education level. New curricula were
regrouped under five domains: (i) language and communication in two languages--mother tongue and a
second language; (ii) social science with history and geography; (iii) natural sciences, mathematics and
technology; (iv) civics, moral education, and physical education; and (v) arts which encompasses dramatic
arts, music, dance etc. These five domains were developed on the basis of three categories of competencies:
(i) subject area competencies; (ii) transversal competencies; and (iii) life skills. By end-of-Project, new
curricula were approved and implemented for all modules from Grades 1-6 (first two cycles of basic
education).

         Activity 2: Introduction of systems and procedures to produce textbooks in national languages
and distribute them. The output of this activity was highly satisfactory. Prior to project implementation,



                                                      - 6 -

there were few textbooks in the national languages and they were of poor physical quality. The Project
helped to introduce systems and procedures to edit, produce, publish, and distribute books in six national
languages on the basis of the revised curricula. Niono workshops were conducted to discuss the approach
to publishing, producing and distributing textbooks, developing terms of references and adopting them
towards preparing preliminary versions of manuscripts. Intensive workshops lasting 21 days were
successfully conducted, and resulted in (i) the elaboration of didactic materials [three types: petits matériels
for active classroom teaching, reprint of didactic materials/textbooks/manuscripts including French
Rencontres, and new editions], and (ii) the preparation of terms of reference defining the type of production
(exercises, documentary texts, dialogues, games, counting, etc.), the number of themes to be included and
the production characteristics (length of text by level of education, number and types of exercises).
Teachers undergoing training in pédagogie convergente methodology participated in the workshops. The
work was organized to elicit maximum participation and promote group dynamics. Teachers contributed to
developing the new textbooks.

         With respect to financing, since 1994 Mali has a line item in the budget for basic education
teaching and learning materials. The maximum amount allocated annually equals about 4 million
CFAF--an amount which is insufficient to address the enormous dearth of teaching and learning materials.
Through the Project, supplementary funds were made available to finance the reprinting, publishing,
production and distribution of books in six national languages for the first three grades. Financial
assistance also came from USAID, the Netherlands, the Inter-government Agency for Francophone
countries, and from GTZ. Significant efforts were made to produce the didactic materials (textbooks,
teachers' guides, visual aides). The SIP is continuing to reinforce the approach adopted in the context of the
LIL.

         The large-scale production of textbooks in national languages meant procuring the services of
publishers who had the potential to conform to the rigorous regulatory procedures of the General
Directorate for Public Procurement [Direction Générale des Marchés Publics (DGPM)] and those of the
bi-lateral and multilateral partners. Calls for bids were made in two modalities: ICB and NCB. Bidding
documents were opened according to specified procedure and contracts were awarded for the production of
books. Books in national languages were generally produced locally. The books produced were of good
physical quality (the quality of the content of these books needs to be evaluated). Both teachers' guides and
student textbooks were produced. The Project assisted in this regard and the output was highly satisfactory.
At the basic education level, textbooks are provided for free. In all, as of 2002 a total of 547,800 books and
80 titles (63 languages, 17 mathematics) of didactic materials in eleven (six supported through the Project;
five already in use) national languages were produced at the Niono workshops at the district level.

         Activity 3: Teacher training in the areas of bilingual education and active learning methods.
The output of this activity was Satisfactory. It was envisaged that in 70% of participating schools,
interactive and individual teaching methods would be used, and action plans would be developed for
non-performing schools by end-of-Project. The output was achieved, although a little below target at 60%.
The objective was to train teachers to use national language in teaching concomitant with French. In order
to improve the quality of teaching, teachers were required to (i) be fluent in a national language; (ii) use
active teaching techniques in class to engage students; (iii) be capable of using differentiated teaching
techniques taking into consideration differing levels of comprehension among students; and (iv) apply
formative evaluation techniques. At the beginning of the Project, only 1,000 teachers were assessed as
having the required characteristics. As envisaged in the Project design, all 15 Académies d'Enseignement
and 70 Centres d'Animation Pédagogique (CAP) were targeted, and over 5,640 teachers were trained in
the use of pédagogie convergente methodology in the classroom. In addition, teachers also received
technical training in developing didactic materials. They co-edited textbooks which are now being used in


                                                      - 7 -

pédagogie convergente schools. Feedback from school inspectors' reports indicate that teachers are using
new techniques to promote listening comprehension, oral expression and written exercises for children to
acquire a number of useful skills.

         A positive aspect of the Project was that trained teachers are now the champions of using
pédagogie convergente as the primary approach to teaching. Some children interviewed said that their
teachers were using a different teaching technique which they liked because they are now able to understand
the concepts and participate in class discussions. During the Project implementation period, teachers on the
verge of retirement, who had received training in pédagogie convergente methodology, received a
three-year service extension. Capacity was enhanced in the MBE to: (i) develop training
materials--multilingual training materials, trainer and school level supervision support; (ii) organize
in-service training (since pre-service/initial teacher training did not include pédagogie convergente until
2002/03); (iii) identify teachers to be trained (criteria being teachers who spoke the national language, and
their potential for being deployed to existing and new pédagogie convergente schools in accordance with
the objectives of extending the Project, and were prepared to use innovative approaches to classroom
teaching); (iv) develop a linguistic map of Mali (languages spoken by pupils and teachers) to serve as a
planning tool for deploying teachers; and (v) carry out the training in a phased or gradual manner. Teacher
training activities of the Project are being continued through the SIP: (i) institutional reinforcement of the
Centres d'Animation Pédagogique (CAP) so as to ensure in-service teacher training and follow-up; and (ii)
pre-service training in the pédagogie convergente methodology at the Institutes of Teacher Training
[Instituts de Formation des Maîtres (IFM)].

         Activity 4: Introduction of a system and procedures to monitor and evaluate student learning.
The outputs of this activity were satisfactory although the overall monitoring and evaluation (M&E) for
the Project was unsatisfactory. Evaluation and monitoring of student learning are based on year-end,
end-of-cycle examinations. Pédagogie convergente and traditional school students were tested during
Project implementation (refer section 4.1 for details). The capacity of the evaluation unit in the MBE was
enhanced through technical assistance support and training in student learning evaluation methodology. The
department's evaluation of the use of pédagogie convergente shows that from a sectoral perspective, the
Project component helped to provide some evidence to show that pédagogie convergente actually has
educational advantages and serves as a means (improved learning) to an end (to progress with schooling, to
become literate and numerate).

         Component 2. Testing Family/School/Community Partnerships (US$0.33 million) (Moderately
Satisfactory). It was envisaged that 60% (equivalent to 24 out of 40) of School Management Committees
(SMCs) would adopt a school improvement plan including pédagogie convergente within 6 months of
creation. Furthermore, a communication strategy aimed at gaining support within communities and
decision-makers was envisaged. In 1999-2000 an information campaign/strategy was designed and
adopted. It was transmitted in 49 sub-regions via 34 regional and sub-regional radio broadcasts. It was
only towards the end of the Project implementation period that 85 SMCs were set up, and school
improvement plans mainly focusing on financial improvements at the school level (optimizing the use of
school budgets) were developed.

         Building on the existing tradition of strong community level support for education, the partnerships
at the community and school level fostered through the Project resulted in the institutionalization of SMCs
in four pilot regions (Kayes, Mopti, Timbuktu, Gao) which had the lowest student completion rates, and
assisted in the development of school improvement plans. This was the result of concerted efforts to foster
communication and partnership between teachers, parents, families and the local communities. In the pilot
regions parents now contribute to decision-making on issues such as school hours, focus on educating the


                                                       - 8 -

community about the value of sending children (especially girls) to school, and perform an important social
development function.

         The major stumbling bloc in setting up the SMCs was the resistance from the Federation of
Parents-Teachers' Association to support partnerships between the PTAs and the communities/families to
be set up. They perceived that they would have to relinquish decision-making authority and diffuse their
power over a number of additional actors. This prevented them from readily agreeing to the
experimentation of community/families/PTA partnerships. Another issue was that the SMCs which were
formed so late in the Project implementation phase did not know that project funds were available to help
them jump start revolving funds for the community. SMCs became aware of the availability of funds only
after project closing. While the component output was achieved, the timing of the results did not permit as
planned, to reasonably test or assess the applicability of the partnership approach in making schools more
efficient.

         Component 3. Decentralizing the Education System (US$0.00 million) (Unsatisfactory). The
objective was to develop and test an approach to decentralization that MBE could adopt to transfer
education responsibilities to local authorities. The purpose was to improve local level accountability by
moving responsibility for service delivery closer to beneficiaries (students, parents, communities). The
output was envisaged to be a results-oriented system where the budget, personnel policy, financial
investment plan and resource allocation are based on results, and tested in 5 municipalities by Project
completion. Little action was taken to achieve the output.

         The timing of the design and implementation of the decentralization component had important
implications for the component outputs. The component was designed towards end-1998. The Project was
approved in January 2000. Implementation commenced in October 2000. The policies, strategies and a
timeline for transfer of responsibilities to local authorities had been developed and were to be tested in
partnership with five pilot communities. Before mid-term review terms of reference were developed to hire
a consultant (from January 2001-February 2002) to assist with the planning and management of the five
pilot communities. The terms of reference were unsatisfactory and were revised three times based on
feedback from the Bank as well as the Director General for Public Procurement [Direction Générale des
Marchés Publics (DGMP)] in Mali. A call for tenders had been prepared to recruit the consultant.
Meanwhile, under legislation No.99-046 of December 28, 1999 and per a policy letter of December 14,
2000, MBE created a separate department with responsibility for education decentralization and
deconcentration. The terms of reference for the Project component and the call for tenders were transferred
to the new department. The consultant was never recruited, and none of the activities envisaged under the
Project were implemented. The Department of Education Decentralization and Deconcentration felt that the
component as designed was no longer valid. Therefore, the estimated Project funding of US$540,000 (of
which $20,000 was the Government's contribution, $40,000 from the Netherlands grant and $480,000
from IDA) was not utilized.

         The LIL component was designed at a time when the Government did not have a clear plan of
action for decentralizing education. The Project component was designed to pilot an approach to
decentralization from which the Government could draw lessons before making appropriate changes and
taking it to scale on a countrywide basis. However, at mid-term review, it became clear that there was no
need for the Government to use the estimated funds for the component as the activities were already being
implemented through the SIP. Part of the reason why the LIL's decentralization component activities were
never implemented immediately after Project effectiveness was because the Borrower was unsure about the
envisaged roles and responsibilities involved in decentralizing educational management. There were
concerns about financial decentralization (transferring central budget for local authorities to manage) as


                                                     - 9 -

well--which was an unresolved issue at Project closing.

         Component 4. Strengthening implementation capacity for project management and
implementation (US$0.43 million) (Moderately Satisfactory). The Project Coordination Unit's (PCU)
capacity to manage project implementation increased over time. Planned evaluation activities to monitor
key indicators of the Project were launched, however, only towards the end of project implementation.
Technical assistance was provided through the Project to assist the Evaluation and Pedagogical Research
team of MBE to assess the impact of the pédagogie convergente methodology. At Project closing the
evaluation team carried out an analysis of variance of student achievement in pédagogie convergente
schools and traditional schools. The quality of the work indicated the improvements in student learning in
pédagogie convergente schools. Technical assistance was commissioned in the context of the ICR to
provide specialist feedback on the research methodology and analysis of results.

         The PCU submitted on time the final report on project implementation. In addition to the technical
assistance support for substantive areas of the Project, PCU staff also received training in procurement and
financial management. Trained staff were able to follow the Bank's procurement guidelines and the
financial safeguards requirements closely. Through the Project supervision process, PCU staff received
on-the-job training which helped to reinforce both the substantive aspects of the Project (pédagogie
convergente methodology, textbook development, teacher training) and the related processes, contributing
to considerable institutional development. The Project financed the purchase of equipment to assist the
PCU with day-to-day operations. The equipment is being utilized for the implementation of the SIP.

         One of the outputs of the component was that best practices are identified and disseminated by
end-of-Project. Informally, best practices (aspects of curriculum development, teacher training strategy,
community partnerships in pilot regions) were being shared with traditional schools (non-Project schools)
by end-of-Project. The Division of Evaluation and Pedagogical Research was sharing its draft report on the
results and findings of the use of pédagogie convergente.

         Monitoring and evaluation (M&E). (Unsatisfactory). The only aspect of M&E that functioned
well was the measurement of student learning achievement. For all other aspects, at Project closing, the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was still not operating despite recommendations made by
successive supervision missions. The monitoring and evaluation software (TECPRO) which allows for
regular monitoring of the Project activities and outputs had not been successfully used by component
managers. The M&E system was also ineffective in flagging the problem early that non-performing schools
(interactive and individual teaching methods) were not preparing action plans as envisaged under the
Project.

         The reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of the system were that: (i) there was
fundamentally limited capacity from the start in the PCU to handle M&E. The Project design did not
include dedicated personnel for M&E, particularly for a Project such as the LIL which required substantive
education M&E (for example, whether pédagogie convergente methodology requires more time to impart
knowledge in the classroom than the traditional approach; the Project M&E could have included an
indicator to show this aspect), and project implementation process-related M&E; (ii) the PCU became
preoccupied with the Project implementation process; and (iii) until mid-term review, the PCU was weighed
down with many bureaucratic responsibilities as explained in sub-section 4.2 above. Several aspects of the
Project could have been more consistently measured during project implementation had an Education
Management Information System (EMIS) been systematically maintained.

         In addition to the above, the mid-term review took place only eight months before Project closing.


                                                    - 10 -

The consequences/implications of this was that mid-course corrections during Project implementation could
not be put in place during the remaining implementation period. A number of concurring factors led to the
delay in mid-term review: (i) some delay in project effectiveness--the Development Credit Agreement was
signed in April 2000, and the project became effective in October 2000; (ii) political economy factors:
presidential elections in early 2002 which led to a brief interlude in schools being closed for the period; and
(iii) Mali was responsible for organizing CAN 2002 (Coupe d'Afrique des Nations) which took up the
entire month of January 2002.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         The cost of educating a student through the primary cycle (6 years) using traditional education is
estimated to be nearly 27% (202,722 CFAF) more than using pédagogie convergente methodology
(159,342 CFAF). When cost, qualitative aspects (gains in test scores) and efficiency considerations
(repetition and dropout rates) are combined, pédagogie convergente is more cost-effective than traditional
pedagogies.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         No financial rate of return was calculated for the Project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         Substantial. The Project had substantial institutional development impact. MBE gained experience
in the areas of (i) using pédagogie convergente as the basis of changed curricula which were being tested;
(ii) developing and testing improved teaching and learning materials in national languages; (iii) instituting
active teaching methods in the retraining teachers; (iv) applying monitoring and evaluation centered on the
comparison of different types of schools, and the teaching and learning programs that Malian children have
access to; (v) determining if the bilingual education interventions are replicable on a larger scale gradually;
and (vi) extending on a larger scale the lessons learned from schools where pédagogie convergente is
currently being applied. The institutional strengthening that resulted from what was a short-term (3 year)
project was significant and is continuing through the ongoing policies of the MBE. The various institutions
involved in the development of curricula, teacher training and development and publishing of textbooks
now have established systems and processes. The MBE is committed to the institutional changes put in
place.

         Prior to the Project, use of pédagogie convergente methodology was in slow progress and limited
geographically. Moreover, there was a shortage of trainers. As a result of the Project, all 70 CAPs in the
country now have the capacity to organize teacher training in the use of pédagogie convergente
methodology. The training which took place in 2003 was entirely organized by the 70 CAPs. Each CAP
now has its team of trainers. Furthermore, all didactic materials used in pédagogie convergente
schools/classrooms were developed by teams comprising teachers, pedagogical counselors, pedagogues,
linguists, and illustrators in the MBE. The Project helped to demonstrate positive results of accelerating the
pace of, and more in-depth use of the pédagogie convergente methodology.

         The Project contributed to bringing different institutional groups to work together in a coordinated
manner to implement the MBE's policy of using pédagogie convergente as the mode of teaching and
learning in primary schools. The internal rearrangement of the Ministry resulted in fostering exchanges and
synergies among operational teams for effective implementation of both the Project as well as the SIP
which had been launched and was being implemented concurrently by close of Project implementation.



                                                    - 11 -

Improved management practices have been put in place in the PCU, and in the districts and schools. New,
trained personnel in the implementing unit helped to improve accounting processes. Electronic mail
capacity and phone lines were set up for facilitating communication between key staff. The Project helped
to impart basic training to teachers, management, and PCU staff. More technical assistance and training
are being provided through the SIP to reinforce the principles of democratic management for schools to
embrace and implement decentralized responsibilities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         There were no significant external factors which affected implementation and attaining the Project
objective: (i) the exchange rate of the CFAF remained stable throughout the implementation period; (ii)
there was no civil or political unrest which impeded project implementation; and (iii) there were no natural
disasters which affected project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         The Government was committed to the Project objective, and strived to address problems that
arose during Project implementation. The Project became effective about 10 months after approval and
closed on time without restructuring. The lost time at project-start contributed to the fact that the Credit
was not fully disbursed. The PCU structure and its location in the Ministry were helpful in ensuring the
smooth implementation of the Project. The Government provided the necessary counterpart funds of
US$0.36 million (about 6.5 percent of total project costs) equivalent in CFAF on time as planned. The
counterpart funds were accounted for in the Government's budget. While the Project was designed to suit
the Government's implementation capacity, in the beginning the PCU Director was over-burdened with
significant multiple bureaucratic responsibilities. Time was lost with the PCU Director performing
multiple, equally attention demanding responsibilities. Following mid-term review (albeit this was only 8
months before project closing), the government put in place corrective measures and the responsibility for
managing the decentralization component was transferred to a separate department--the Decentralization/
Deconcentration support unit of the SIP. In addition, a separate Planning and Statistics Unit was also set
up. These helped to separate the bureaucratic responsibilities, leaving the PCU Director to focus solely on
Project implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Since the PCU was located in the MBE, the factors which were subject to government control were
also closely linked to the implementing agency. With the exception of the Decentralization Component and
the monitoring and evaluation sub-activity of Component 4, the other components of the Project were
implemented satisfactorily. PCU staff were responsive and responsible for ensuring that the various
educational aspects of the pédagogie convergente methodology (teacher training, learning materials) were
implemented appropriately. There were two areas in which the PCU could have helped to ameliorate the
project outcomes: (i) ensuring that actions were taken in a timely manner to select the consultant who was
to assist with the implementation of the proposed decentralization mechanism; and (ii) being more
systematic about monitoring and evaluating Project outcomes. Setting up the EMIS should have been a
priority for the PCU. However, the unit was preoccupied with project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The Project was implemented between October 5, 2000 and June 30, 2003. Total estimated project



                                                     - 12 -

cost at appraisal was US$5.52 million of which IDA funding was US$3.81 million (about 68
percent)--IDA's funding was approved on January 21, 2000. The remaining 31 percent of estimated
projects cost was financed by grant funding (US$1.35 million) from the Government of the Netherlands,
and Government of Mali's counterpart funding of US$0.36 million equivalent in CFAF. The arrangement
was pooled financing for all the Project components. The Project closed as scheduled on June 30, 2003. Of
the total IDA Credit only 60.6 percent (US$2.31 million) was actually disbursed. Of the total contributions
US$0.73 million from the Government of the Netherlands and US$0.22 million from the Government of
Mali were utilized.

         Some of the reasons why about US$1.5 million of IDA funds remained undisbursed are as follows:
(i) there was no extension of the closing date although project effectiveness was delayed by more than 6
months; (ii) Component 2 (Testing Family/School/Community Partnerships) failed to disburse against
activities targeting the SMCs and aimed at jump-starting community revolving funds; and (iii) the Project
closed with no disbursements for Component 3 (Decentralizing the Education System) but, as noted before,
this component was not directly linked to the project objectives. Notwithstanding these aspects, the Project
outputs were satisfactorily achieved.

          Table 2. Allocations and Disbursements by Component (IDA funds in US$ millions)

           Components                  Allocation      Percentage of         Actual        Percentage of
                                     (US$ millions)        total         Disbursements      Allocations
 1. Learning to implement bilingual        2.38             62.5              1.78              74.8
     education in primary schools
 2. Testing Family/School/                 0.63             16.5              0.28              44.4
     Community Partnerships
 3. Decentralization of the                0.48             12.6              0.00              0.00
     Education System
 4. Strengthening implementation           0.32             8.4               0.25              78.1
     capacity for project management
     and implementation
                             Total        3.81             100.0              2.31             60.6




                                                    - 13 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The overall prospect for the sustainability of Project activities is rated as likely. Institutional
capacity has been built to implement, assess, monitor and evaluate the use of the Pédagogie convergente
model of education in classrooms. More efforts are being undertaken in this area through the SIP. Positive
student achievement results and the observed changes in school attendance or retention rates have helped to
convince parents that pédagogie convergente is not a second rate methodology. The outputs of the LIL
have helped to further institutionalize pédagogie convergente methodology in the Malian education system.

         Government is committed to introducing pédagogie convergente in phases through PRODEC. The
policy environment is conducive and supports the large-scale application of pédagogie convergente to
cover all public schools in the country. There is a firm plan to commence with instruction entirely in the
mother tongue/national language in Grade I with gradual reduction of instruction in the mother
tongue/national language and increasing instruction in French at higher grades in the first cycle (Grades
1-6) of primary education. All students are required to take a standardized assessment test at the end of
Grade 5 to move into Grade 6 starting when all instruction will be exclusively in the French language.
Institutional and management effectiveness was evident through project implementation. The success of the
pédagogie convergente methodology evidenced through reduced dropout rates, higher attendance rates, the
availability of learning and teaching materials in national languages and in French, and the advantages of
decentralized management of schooling decisions have provided impetus for sustaining the benefits of using
pédagogie convergente. Based on the evidence provided in sub-section 4.1, pédagogie convergente is
technically viable as a methodology to improve student learning.

         There is Government and donor commitment to financing a further extension of the use of
pédagogie convergente in Mali. This is currently ongoing through the Sector Investment Program (SIP).
There are agreed pledges/commitment to the SIP from the donor community (14 donors with a total
financial commitment of approximately US$162 million) as well as counterpart funds from the Government
to mainstream pédagogie convergente and to address other access and quality issues following the LIL.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         Overall, Project outputs show positive results. The 3-year duration of the LIL has helped to set the
stage for its wider application through the SIP. Analysis of the Project outcomes shows that sustainability
will depend on the administrative and organizational measures being carried on by the SIP. There are
additional financial resources to consolidate the achievements of the Project. The internal rearrangement of
the Ministry has resulted in fostering synergies among operational teams for effective implementation of
both the Project as well as the SIP. A greater convergence of institutional capacities in the various
departments of the MBE will foster the transition from the Project to the SIP.




                                                    - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         Satisfactory. As indicated in sub-section 3.5, Project identification was consistent with government
priorities. The Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was a new instrument introduced by the Bank in
1998-99. The decision to utilize the LIL instrument in Mali was appropriate. It helped to commence
implementation of the Government's ten-year program (PRODEC). In designing the Project, the
preparation team reviewed and took into consideration lessons learned from other LIL projects in the Bank,
thereby bringing best practice lessons to the Project design. The LIL helped to create a good relationship
between the MBE and the Bank by fostering understanding of Bank operations on the one hand, and the
education system in the country on the other hand, through the process of project preparation and
implementation. Based on Bank knowledge and experience in the education sector in general and on
experiences in similar countries, the technical, financial, institutional, procurement, financial management,
environmental, and sociological aspects of the project design were consistent with the Bank's safeguard
policies and were technically and institutionally sound. The project preparation teams from identification to
appraisal were well balanced in terms of technical and Bank operational staff. Overall Project design was
satisfactory, and it included a monitoring and evaluation sub-component at the preparation stage.

7.2 Supervision:

         Moderately Satistactory. Close supervision was fostered since the task manager, the procurement
and financial management specialists were located in-country. Regular supervision and finer aspects of
project implementation were not overlooked--for example, continued dialogue with the MBE to obtain
reassurance for commitment to the Project. Therefore, few supervision missions from Bank Headquarters
were required--only four supervision missions from headquarters took place during project implementation.
The composition of the supervision missions was adequate and suitable to the Project. The supervision
mission ratings in the Project Status Reports (PSRs) were realistic. Efforts were made to provide continued
technical assistance throughout project implementation. The Bank team collaborated effectively with the
PCU and relevant counterparts in the MBE and regional level education administrators. The supervision
missions worked consistently with MBE and PCU counterparts to ensure that project activities were on
track. Concerted efforts were made towards attaining the process and output indicators. The Bank
coordinated its activities well with the various teams in the MBE which were responsible for developing
curricula, training teachers, developing textbooks which were also being financed by other agencies. Bank
supervision missions were proactive in advising the PCU about corrective measures, and in building in
appropriate transition mechanisms from the Project to the SIP.

         Despite the positive aspects of overall supervision efforts, the mid-term evaluation came too
late--only eight months before Project closing. The delay in the mid-term evaluation resulted in lost
opportunity to put in place mid-course corrections for the remaining portion of the implementation period.
Although the PSRs consistently rated the monitoring and evaluation of the Project as unsatisfactory, there
was no concerted follow-up action taken to ensure that a remedial mechanism was put in place. Finally, the
supervision team failed to formally make a number of adjustments, chief among them were the number of
schools in which the pédagogie convergente method was to be implemented and to cancel unused funds.

         Despite the fact that project implementation period was shortened, the Project was executed
satisfactorily. The partner agency (the Netherlands donor agency) expressed that communication was not


                                                    - 15 -

fostered between the Bank, the Government and the agency. However, it must be noted that the Bank did
not have difficulties communicating, coordinating and collaborating with other donors. The Bank was not
responsive to a query by the Netherlands donor agency to extend the closing date of the LIL because this
would have been against the fundamental premise for the use of the LIL instrument in the context of the
Government's sectoral program (PRODEC) and the donor support through the SIP. Although some
activities were not implemented, the LIL allowed both the Government and the donors to draw lessons in a
relatively short period of time and feed them into the follow up SIP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Satisfactory. As explained above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         Satisfactory. The Government's willingness to involve communities in managing the education
system as a means to improve sustainability in the sector, and its ambition to strengthen institutional
capacity of the sector were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Early in the Project
preparation stage, the Government established a Steering Committee called Comité d'orientation et de
suivi chaired by the Secretary General of the MBE and comprising the Directors from technical
departments of MBE, the technical unit for PRODEC, a Project Coordinator and a representative from the
National Parents' Association of Mali. The Steering Committee played an important role in ensuring that
Project activities were consistent with Government's overall policy objectives in the education sector, and
provided guidance on the overall scope and direction of the Project. It was the primary mechanism for
ensuring that the interests of key stakeholders, particularly those at the regional level, were adequately
addressed during project implementation. The Steering Committee worked consistently to address and
overcome initial resistance to the introduction of bilingual education on a wider scale, and at a faster pace.
It fulfilled its responsibilities and helped to attain the goal of further developing the use of bilingual
education. Government also established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to assist the Steering
Committee in the day-to-day management of project activities, and for being responsible for overall project
administration, financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation and overall project
implementation and supervision.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         Satisfactory. Despite a late start, the Government showed a high level of commitment to project
implementation, and provided counterpart funds as required and in a timely manner. The counterpart funds
were accounted for in the central budget. Government's commitment to the Project objective was reflected
in its compliance with all the legal covenants. Initially, there were some hurdles which rendered project
management to be rated as unsatisfactory. The physical integration of the Project within the MBE and the
appointment of the Project Coordinator as Deputy Director of the structure responsible for overall
coordination of the SIP had resulted in cumbersome bureaucracy which did not foster good project
management practice. The Project Coordinator had new responsibilities to discharge, including heading the
component on decentralization. Within a short period of time, the overwhelming administrative tasks were
acknowledged by the Director General, and the implementation responsibilities of the decentralization
component were transferred to the Decentralization support unit of the SIP. This resulted in smooth project
coordination with the Project Coordinator, and managers of the bilingual education and
family/community/school partnerships components keeping the Project on track.




                                                    - 16 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         Satisfactory. The overall performance of the PCU was satisfactory with regard to project
management and coordination of project activities. Reports were prepared in a timely manner and
submitted to IDA for review and discussion. The PCU was active in addressing issues identified as
requiring attention by the Bank's supervision missions. For instance, responding to an unsatisfactory rating
for procurement management, the PCU reviewed procurement plans and prepared action plans which were
approved by the Bank. Efforts were made to abide by the procurement plan, and procurement issues were
addressed in accordance with Bank procedures. The PCU consistently requested the Bank's advice for prior
review of bidding documents and contracts. The on-the-job training during Project implementation proved
to be a useful learning ground. Procurement staff in the Ministry of Education, Department of Accounting
and Finance received procurement training in Dakar. Trained staff are now working as team members for
the SIP. They will receive additional training to handle a variety of procurement challenges under the SIP.
Financial management was satisfactory.

         The PCU established a financial management system (TOMPRO) which was approved by IDA.
The system includes accounting, financial reporting and auditing elements. This system provided the
Government and IDA with accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures.
Successive supervision missions were satisfied with the performance of the accounting tasks using the
computer software, the budgetary module, and the financial and disbursement monitoring modules. A
Special Account was opened in the Central Bank of Mali for all project related transactions. Financial
reports were provided to the Bank in a timely manner. The audit reports were unqualified. The financial
management responsibilities of the Project were transferred to the SIP, thereby extending the use of assets
of the Project for longer-term goals in the SIP.

         The one negative aspect was that, at the end of the implementation period, the Project M&E system
was still not operating despite recommendations made by previous supervision missions. The M&E system
software (TECPRO) which was designed to allow for regular monitoring had not been used by the PCU
component managers. The issue was related to a lack of will on the part of the PCU to systematically
monitor the Project. However, planned evaluation activities to monitor key performance indicators of the
Project were launched towards the end of implementation to assess the impact of bilingual education on
student learning.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

         Satisfactory. As explained above.

8. Lessons Learned

General lessons

l The use of the LIL instrument can help to test the deepening of an ongoing reform process, and help
    government to assess the pace at which a reform could be implemented. It is a good instrument to test
    the acceleration of implementing a policy reform on a small scale before acquiring experience and
    factoring in the lessons for replicating the positive results on a large-scale, both from educational as
    well as financial perspectives.




                                                    - 17 -

l Housing the PCU in the Ministry of Education helps to foster communication between the
    implementing agency and the Ministry. The downside, however, is that the PCU could become
    burdened with other bureaucratic requirements thereby diffusing its attention to project implementation.
    Mitigating measures need to be put in place during Project preparation stage.

l Mali's experience in using bilingual education has potential for being replicated in other countries in the
    region. Mali's experience demonstrates that, in a multi-lingual environment, a focus on few national
    languages can lead to increased educational coverage (for example, over time only four Malian national
    languages will help to reach over 80 percent of the primary education student population) and
    improvements in student learning among a significant student population.

Project-specific lessons

l The value of bilingual education as a primary education strategy in multi-lingual countries (which have
    both a national and several indigenous languages) is that it improves school attendance, reduces
    dropout rates, and has cumulative advantages for student learning. However, this requires
    government's continued commitment to an irreversible policy reform for using bilingual education.
    This is essential if the policy has to succeed, since the initial financial investment in introducing
    bilingual education is significant, and the benefits are visible only over a period of time.

l There are initial costs of introducing bilingual education due to the need to revise curriculum, train all
    teachers (have a well targeted teacher training plan that takes the long-term into consideration), develop
    appropriate teaching and learning materials, and introduce active teaching and learning methods in the
    classroom. However, there are associated benefits in terms of improved learning achievements as
    demonstrated by the Project. Introducing bilingual education in a phased manner helps to adjust central
    and local budgets for education.

l Information campaigns should be an integral part of the introduction or wider use of bilingual
    education in order to sensitize the public, disseminate positive results of a bilingual education policy,
    and shore up support for the policy. Parents are perhaps one of the most important links in information
    campaigns to raise social awareness with respect to girls attending school.

l Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) requires careful attention during project design and implementation.
    Project implementation process becomes a preoccupation for the PCU. A tested, well functioning
    education management information system (EMIS) needs to be put in place to gather relevant data for
    analyzing the impact of the use of new teaching and learning methodologies, and for providing the
    government with appropriate data to inform decision-making. A well-funded monitoring system with
    systematic technical support for monitoring and evaluation is a fundamental requirement for continuous
    evaluation and renewal of curricula, teaching and learning materials, teacher training and student
    assessment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        The Borrower was satisfied with project implementation and felt that the principal activities of the
Project were well managed during the designated project implementation period. The Government
confirmed that the successive supervision aide-mémoire showed evidence of corrective actions which were



                                                    - 18 -

taken whenever problems were identified, and that these actions resulted in the achievement of the principal
Project activities. The Borrower found the Bank's performance to be satisfactory, and specifically
appreciated the World Bank Country Office Team's timely advice. Overall, it was felt that the Project
provided a valuable learning opportunity. Annex 8 includes the Borrower's detailed comments on the
Project.

(b) Cofinanciers:

        The Dutch felt that some positive results had been achieved in terms of developing bilingual
learning materials. With respect to implementation procedures, it was felt that: (i) the Bank's financial
management requirements did not provide for efficient mobilization of the financial resources that had been
made available by the Netherlands Government, and that the Bank did not respect the agreed principle with
the Netherlands to disburse the Dutch grant money first before using the Bank's Credit funds; (ii) the
project structure within the Ministry could have been better integrated; and (iii) communications,
coordination and collaboration with other relevant support programs could have been better promoted.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        Not applicable.

10. Additional Information


        The Closing Date was not extended since there was a follow-up Project. The innovations and
lessons from the LIL are being extended under the ongoing SIP. Through the LIL, the departments of MBE
which house various capacities and which received institutional development support (curriculum
development, teacher training, materials development) have continued to execute their responsibilities
seamlessly through the SIP. As designed under the Project, the Direction Nationale de l'Education de Base
(DNEB) is providing teacher training in pédagogie convergente methodology during school vacation; the
training efforts were extended to over 70 Centres d'Animation Pédagogique (CAP). In addition to
in-service teacher training, pre-service training in PC methodology has been introduced. The Centre
National de l'Education (CNE) is continuing to develop didactic material and is focusing on student
evaluation in accordance with the reformed curricula. The didactic material development strategy through
multidisciplinary workshops was one of the strengths of the LIL Project. The strategy assisted in
introducing innovations in textbooks and teaching materials. This strategy is being used in the SIP to
develop new curricula and teaching and learning materials. The Department of Decentralization/
Deconcentration [Cellule d'Appui à la Décentralisation et la Déconcentration de l'Education (CAD/DE)]
which was created under the auspice of the SIP is continuing with community mobilization efforts
(extending the concept of community/family/teacher partnerships) which was commenced under the LIL
Project. MBE is developing regulations to institutionalize the community partnerships in all schools in the
country.




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
              Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Bilingual education (pédagogie             Target 700 schools using pédagogie            --2,056 public school classrooms [1,256
convergente) is successfully introduced in six convergente.                                  public schools and 800 community schools
languages and is used in at least 700                                                        considered to be in the non-public domain]
schools by end project.                                                                      are using pédagogie convergente.
                                                                                             -- Pédagogie convergente has been
                                                                                             introduced in 6 languages (4 of these will
                                                                                             eventually cover nearly 80% of children in all
                                                                                             public schools).
                                                                                             --The pilot schools for introducing pédagogie
                                                                                             convergente have trained teachers in
                                                                                             pédagogie convergente methodology. As of
                                                                                             2002-2003 over 5,640 teachers had been
                                                                                             trained in the use of pédagogie convergente.

1.2 Repetition and dropout rates               15% repetition in traditional public schools; --Repetition rate in traditional public schools:
demonstrated to be better in participating     5% repetition in pédagogie convergente        18.1% over the period 1999-2000 to
pédagogie convergente schools when             schools.                                      2002-2003.
compared to other school systems.                                                            Repetition rate in pédagogie convergente
                                                                                             schools: 3.7% over the period 1999-2000 to
                                                                                             2002-2003.
                                                                                             --Dropout rate in traditional public schools:
                                                                                             5.7% over the period 1999-2000 to
                                                                                             2002-2003.
                                                                                             Dropout rate in pédagogie convergente
                                                                                             schools: 1.6% over the period 1999-2000 to
                                                                                             2002-2003.

1.3 Results in reading, French and Maths for Testing completed for Grades 2 and 4 in         --Testing completed for end-grade 5 (entry to
pédagogie convergente schools will be          reading, French and Math, and test items      Grade 6) in French, Maths, and National
evaluated and demonstrated to be better than pre-tested for Grade 6.                         languages. Tests confirm that pédagogie
in other school systems.                                                                     convergente students fare generally better
                                                                                             than average.

1.4 Cost savings of pédagogie convergente      Unit Cost: 25,000 CFAF for primary public     --Unit cost: 24,588 CFAF for primary public
model compared to other systems and            schools and wastage is 20%.                   schools and 26,594 CFAF for pédagogie
schools with active community involvement.                                                   convergente schools. However, it costs less
                                               Unit Cost: 30,000 CFAF for pédagogie          to produce one graduate in pédagogie
                                               convergente schools with wastage at 10%.      convergente schools that in traditional
                                                                                             schools.

                                                                                             [For details on unit cost calculation, refer to
                                                                                             Annex 3--Project Cost-Effectiveness
                                                                                             Analysis).




                                                                  - 20 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 In 70% of participating schools,           70%                                          --In about 60% of participating schools,
interactive and individual teaching methods                                                 interactive and individual teaching methods
are used; and action plans are developed for                                                were being used. By end-of-Project, there
non-performing schools by end of project.                                                   was no evidence that non-performing schools
                                                                                            had developed action plans.


2.1 Learning standards / expected              Approval and implementation of all modules   --All modules for grades 1-6 approved and
competencies/ and pedagogy for each grade      for grades 1-6.                              implemented.
at the primary level in Reading, Maths
(national languages and French) (Gr. 1-6)
and Science (Gr.3-6) reviewed and agreed.


3.1 60% of management committees adopt a 20 of 40 new management committees have --School improvement plans mostly in the
school improvement plan including pédagogie adopted an approved school improvement          area of financial improvement were developed
convergente within 6 months of creation        plan.                                        and adopted by 85 school management
(equivalent to 20 out of 40 management                                                      committees which the Project helped to set
committees to be created).                                                                  up. Financial improvement plans (optimizing
                                                                                            the use of school budgets) constitute a
                                                                                            portion of larger school improvement plans
                                                                                            which includes in addition to financial plans,
                                                                                            infrastructure improvements, additional
                                                                                            didactic materials, etc.


4.1 A communication strategy aimed at          Adoption and implementation of the strategy. --In 1999-2000 an information
gaining support within communities and                                                      campaign/strategy was designed and
decision-makers is designed by the 1st                                                      adopted. It was transmitted in 49
quarter of project.                                                                         sub-regions via 34 regional and sub-regional
                                                                                            radio broadcasts.


5.1 A results-oriented system where the        A system for budgeting, personnel policy,    --No action was taken. Detailed explanation
budget, personnel policy, financial investment financial investment plan is tested in 5     provided in Section 4, sub-section 4.2.
plan and resource allocation is focused on     municipalities.
results is tested in 5 municipalities by
end-of-project.


5.2 Best practices identified and              Dissemination of best practices.             --By end-of-Project, best practices were
disseminated by end-of-project.                                                             being shared informally and being
                                                                                            institutionalized in the MBE. Best practices
                                                                                            include various aspects of curriculum
                                                                                            development, associated learning materials
                                                                                            development, and teacher training strategy,
                                                                                            community partnerships in pilot regions--all of
                                                                                            which are being shared with schools in the
                                                                                            non-Project areas/regions.
                                                                                            --Research on pédagogie convergente was
                                                                                            completed and being finalized for
                                                                                            dissemination. Early results showed
                                                                                            pédagogie convergente to be an effective
                                                                                            methodology.

1 End of project
2/
  Actual/Latest Estimate based on "Final Evaluation Report" from the PCU. September 2003.




                                                                 - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                    Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                                 US$ million   US$ million
1. Learning to implement bilingual education in primary                3.55           2.50          70.4
schools
2. Testing family/school/community partnerships                        0.67           0.33          49.3
3. Decentralization of the education system                            0.52           0.00             0
4. Strengthening implementation capacity for project                   0.45           0.43          95.6
management and implementation

Total Baseline Cost                                                    5.19           3.26
 Physical Contingencies                                                0.14
 Price Contingencies                                                   0.19
                           Total Project Costs                         5.52           3.26
                    Total Financing Required                           5.52           3.26
Note: Actual/Latest Estimate includes physical and price contingencies.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                 2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                         Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00            0.00         0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.75               0.44            0.20         0.00        1.39
                                      (0.00)             (0.32)          (0.11)        (0.00)     (0.43)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00            0.78         0.00        0.78
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.61)        (0.00)     (0.61)
4. Training/Seminars                   0.00               0.00            2.06         0.00        2.06
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (1.85)        (0.00)     (1.85)
5. School Improvement                  0.00               0.00            0.26         0.00        0.26
Plans                                 (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.26)        (0.00)     (0.26)
6. Incremental Operating               0.00               0.00            0.95         0.08        1.03
Costs                                 (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.66)        (0.00)     (0.66)
    Total                              0.75               0.44            4.25         0.08        5.52
                                      (0.00)             (0.32)          (3.49)        (0.00)     (3.81)




                                                      - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                 ICB               NCB                   2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                              Other
    1. Works                                 0.00              0.00             0.00            0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)
    2. Goods                                 0.59              0.00             0.00            0.00              0.59
                                           (0.15)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.15)
    3. Services                              0.00              0.06             0.18            0.00              0.24
                                           (0.00)             (0.06)           (0.07)          (0.00)            (0.13)
    4. Training/Seminars                     0.00              0.00             2.11            0.00              2.11
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.98)          (0.00)            (1.98)
    5. School Improvement                    0.00              0.00             0.14            0.00              0.14
    Plans                                  (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)
    6. Incremental Operating                 0.00              0.00             0.18            0.00              0.18
    Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.05)          (0.00)            (0.05)
        Total                                0.59              0.06             2.61            0.00              3.26
                                           (0.15)             (0.06)           (2.10)          (0.00)            (2.31)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes goods procured through limited shopping competitive bidding, consulting services, training, studies, technical
       assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the Project.
       3/ Exchange rate as of October 2003: US$1= CFAF 590.
       4/ The overall actual/latest estimate include IDA, the Government, and the Government of the Netherlands'
       contributions.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank         Govt.      CoF.          Bank       Govt.       CoF.      Bank     Govt.    CoF.
1. Learning to implement         2.38        0.17        1.13         1.78        0.05       0.71      74.8     29.4     62.8
bilingual education in
primary schools
2. Testing                       0.63        0.04        0.18         0.28        0.04       0.02      44.4     100.0    11.1
family/school/community
partnerships
3. Decentralization of the       0.48        0.02        0.04         0.00        0.00       0.00       0.0      0.0      0.0
education system
4. Strengthening                 0.32        0.13        0.00         0.25        0.13       0.00      78.1     100.0     0.0
implementation capacity
for project management
and implementation
Total                            3.81        0.36        1.35         2.31        0.22       0.73      60.6     61.1     54.1




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                          Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of
                              Pédagogie Convergente and Traditional Education

Background and Introduction.

1.        In the context of evaluating the results of the « Improving Learning in Primary Schools » Project, the
Ministry of Education and the Association for the Development of Education in Africa (ADEA) completed in May
2003, a study on the quality of education entitled La pédagogie convergente comme facteur d'amélioration de la
qualité de l'éducation de base au Mali: analyse du developpement de l'innovation et perspectives. The study
included an analysis of the recurrent costs of the pédagogie convergente teaching and learning methodology. This
Annex focuses on cost-effectiveness analysis, summarizing the costs and benefits of bilingual education and
traditional education. It draws on the data in the Ministry of Education and ADEA study.

2.        Towards the end of Project implementation, a student evaluation was conducted in Mathematics, French
and national languages for a sample of children undergoing bilingual education and for a sample of students
undergoing traditional education. The results of this evaluation are used as proxies for the benefits of using
bilingual education at the primary education level. Furthermore, increased student flow as a result of efficiency
gains (or reduction in wastage) using dropout and repetition rates are also taken into account in the
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Computing Unit Costs.

3.        The cost of constructing classrooms has been excluded from the analysis. The reason being that the use of
pédagogie convergente does not require per se the construction of classrooms. In order to keep the cost calculation
simple, omitting the investment cost helps to isolate the recurrent costs (for teacher training, teaching and learning
materials). Arguably, there are development costs involved for re-orienting teaching and learning materials.
However, this is negligible in the present context and has, therefore, not been factored into the calculations.

4.        In-service Teacher Training: Using the in-service training costs supported by the World Bank (through
the Project) and by USAID, the minimum cost to train a teacher to use bilingual education methodology in the
classroom is estimated to be 100,000 CFAF. This estimate includes: (i) the cost of developing training materials
(multilingual training materials, trainer and school level supervision support), organizing the training (in-service
training since initial or pre-service teacher training did not include pédagogie convergente until 2002/03),
identifying teachers to be trained (teachers who speak the national language, and their potential for being deployed
to existing and new pédagogie convergente schools in accordance with the objectives of extending the Project
benefits), developing a linguistic map of Mali (languages spoken by pupils and teachers) to serve as a planning tool
for deploying teachers, and finally conducting the training; (ii) per diems to teachers for attending training
workshops which were in some instances twice the amount paid to teachers for traditional education training.
Nearly 60 percent of the allocated Project costs for teacher training constituted per diems for teachers; and (iii) a
20 days classroom based training program. Training in pédagogie convergente is offered at three levels (Level
1--Grades 1&2; Level 2--Grades 3&4; and Level 3--Grades 5&6). Teachers must undergo all levels of training to
reach proficiency in the use of pédagogie convergente in the classroom.

5.        As of 2002-2003 there were 21,126 primary education teachers (permanent and contractual) in Mali           (
MBE Statistical Department, October 2003). The total cost to train the total number of existing teachers to use
bilingual education is estimated to be approximately 6.338 billion CFAF (21,126 x 100,000 x 3 levels). This is a
simplified calculation and does not take into account that teachers may be at differential levels of in-service
training. For example, some teachers may require all three levels of training, some may require Levels 2 and 3,
and still others may require only Level 3. Furthermore, the direct cost of training is taken into consideration since
teachers are typically trained during the summer vacation, after the academic year is completed. The cost of
training teachers in pédagogie convergente is annualized over a 10-year period. The opportunity cost of investing



                                                        - 24 -

in teacher training is assumed to be 5 percent. The calculation yields an annualized cost of 38,851 CFAF for
in-service training in bilingual education methodology for a teacher. According to government regulation the
average size of a primary school class is required to be around 52 students in 2002-03. Therefore, the annualized
unit cost of in-service teacher training in bilingual education is 747 CFAF (38,851 / 52).

6.       Teaching Materials: Schools using pédagogie convergente teaching methodology require different
materials (charts, posters, more chalk and blackboard cleaners) compared to traditional schools. The estimated per
class cost of these materials is approximately 55,000 CFAF. The recurrent cost of using bilingual education in all
existing primary schools in the country is estimated to be around 1.334 billion CFAF (55,000 CFAF x 24,248
classes). Since teaching materials are expected to last over a period of time, the cost of teaching materials is
annualized over a period of 3 years. The opportunity cost of investing in teaching materials is again assumed to be
5 percent. The calculation yields an annualized total cost of teaching materials to be 500 million CFAF. The gross
enrollments in the primary cycle in 2002-2003 was approximately 1.295 million students. The annualized unit
cost of teaching materials is 378 CFAF (500 million / 1.295 million).

7.       Textbooks: Table 1 provides the example for the cost of textbooks in Grade 3. One of the government's
policy reforms is that students in Grades 1 and 2 will receive automatic promotions. It is at Grade 3 level that
students are officially required to take standardized tests. Since student achievement in Grade 5 is used as the
proxy for the benefits of bilingual education, it would be appropriate to use Grade 3 (most proximate grade)
textbooks as the benchmark average.

                                  Table 1. Cost of Grade 3 Textbooks (in CFAF)

                                  Pédagogie Convergente           Traditional Education
               Textbooks                Education                                             Difference
                                  Number         Unit Cost       Number        Unit Cost
          French                     1            2,000             1            2,000
          Mathematics                1            2,000             1            1,600
          National Language          1            3,000             0              0
          Grammar                    0              0               1            1,000
          Total                      3            7,000             3            4,600           2,400
                                              Source: MBE and ADEA, May 2003.

8.       Assuming that the government supplies textbooks to all children in both types of schools, books for
pédagogie convergente schools are relatively more expensive than textbooks for non-pédagogie convergente
schools. This is because additional textbooks in national languages are required for pédagogie convergente
schools. However, children in traditional schools also have an additional textbook for French grammar which is
not required for bilingual education students. On average, the national language textbook for bilingual education is
more expensive than the French grammar textbook. The total cost of providing textbooks to all children in
2002-2003 is estimated to be 3.108 billion CFAF (2,400 x 1.295 million students). The total cost is annualized
assuming a textbook has a usage value of 3 years. Again the opportunity cost of investing in textbooks is assumed
to be 5 percent. The calculation yields an annualized total cost of textbooks to be 1.1 billion CFAF. The
annualized unit cost of textbooks is 881 CFAF (1.1 billion / 1.295 million).

Aggregating the individual unit costs

9.       Table 2 shows the total unit cost of teacher training, teacher salary, teaching materials and textbook for
using bilingual education compared to traditional education.




                                                        - 25 -

                      Table 2. Unit costs of pédagogie convergente and traditional education

                                     Inputs                                            Unit Costs
                                                                                         (CFAF)
              1. Teacher training                                                           747
              2. Teaching materials                                                         378
              3. Student textbooks                                                          881
             4. Additional cost per pupil for bilingual education                          2006
             5. Estimated total unit cost of traditional education *                      24,588
             6. Total unit cost for introducing bilingual                                 26,594
             education (4 plus 5)
                            * Includes teacher salary, teacher training, teaching materials and textbook costs.

The unit cost of bilingual education which is estimated to be 26,594 CFAF is a little higher than in traditional
schools which is estimated to be about 24,588 CFAF.

Computing Benefits.

10.      The benefits of bilingual education can be attributed to two variables: increased student flow through the
primary education cycle due to reduced repetition and dropout rates, and improved student learning.

(a) Efficiency gains can be attributed to introducing bilingual education in the classroom. Efficiency gains relate to
lower repetition and dropout rates for bilingual education than for traditional education. Cost savings are related to
lower repetition and dropout rates. The wider use of bilingual education has led to lower repetition and dropout
rates averaging 3.7% and 1.6% respectively over the 1999-2002/03 period when compared to 18.1% and 5.7%
respectively in traditional schools.

(b) Student Achievement. An end-Project student evaluation was conducted for Grade 5 students (entry into Grade
6) in Mathematics, French and national languages. Students of bilingual education were required to take an
additional test in national languages. The scores are provided in Table 3 below.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis.

11.      The cost-effectiveness analysis for the Project builds on three aspects: the unit cost calculations above, the
efficiency gains in the wider use of bilingual education, and the results of the end-Project student test in
Mathematics, French and national Languages which are used as proxies for the benefits of using bilingual
education at the primary education level. The elements of the cost-effectiveness analysis are summarized in Table
3.




                                                             - 26 -

 Table 3. Costs and Benefits of Pédagogie Convergente Education Versus Traditional Education (2002-2003)

                                                     Traditional Education                  Pédagogie Convergente Education
  Unit Costs                                                   24,588                                          26,594
  Benefits
  Student Flow (average from 1999-2002/03)
    % of repeaters                                               18.1                                            3.7
    % of dropouts                                                5.7                                             1.6
  Student Achievement Scores
  N (100, 15)
    Test scores in mathematics                                   98.2                                          102.2
    Test scores in French                                        99.9                                          100.2
    Test scores in national languages                             --                                            99.7

  Source: MBE. Evaluation de la performance en français, en mathémathique et en langues nationales des élèves des classes de
           4ème année des écoles à pédagogie convergente et des écoles classiques du premier cycle de l'enseignement fondamental au
           Mali. August 2003.
           Student flow data from CPS/MEN, February 2003.
           Test scores in Mathematics, French and national languages have been normalized at 100 to fit a standard distribution; the standard
           deviation is 15.

12.      The unit cost of bilingual education is slightly higher than in traditional schools by about 8.2 percent. The
student success rate is about 16.3 percent more among bilingual education students who took the mathematics test
than among traditional school students. The test scores in French are more or less equivalent for both bilingual
and traditional school students. For unit cost to be offset, efficiency gains in terms of repetition and dropout rate
will need to be factored in to determine the cost-effectiveness of bilingual education. Cost-effectiveness can best be
analyzed by computing the total cost for a student completing the primary education cycle. Table 5 shows the
estimated total cost of a primary education completer.

 Table 4. Total Cost for a Primary School Graduate for Traditional and Pédagogie Convergente Education

             Type of Education                                               Total cost for a primary school graduate
                                                                                                 (CFAF)
             Traditional/Classic                                                                  202,722
             Pédagogie Convergente/Bilingual                                                      159,342


         The total cost of educating a student through the primary cycle (6 years) using traditional education is
estimated to be nearly 27% more than using pédagogie convergente methodology. When cost, qualitative aspects
(gains in test scores) and efficiency considerations (repetition and dropout rates) are combined, pédagogie
convergente is more cost-effective than traditional pedagogies.

Conclusion.


13.      There is Government and donor commitment to financing pédagogie convergente/bilingual education
methodology in all classrooms at primary education level in Mali. This is currently ongoing through the Sector
Investment Program (SIP). There are agreed pledges/commitment to the SIP from the donor community (14 donors
with a total financial commitment of approximately US$162 million) as well as counterpart funds from the
Government to mainstream bilingual education and to address other access and quality issues. The pédagogie
convergente methodology is, therefore, financially sustainable.




                                                                - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                       (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year    Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Jun-Jul 1998                2    Country Officer 1;                   S               S
                                               Education Specialist 1.
              Nov-Dec 1998                3    Country Officer 1;                   S               S
                                               Education Specialist 1;
                                               Dutch Cooperation Specialist 1
              Pre-Evaluation Apr          4    Operations Officer 1;                S               S
              1999                             Education Specialist 1;
                                               Decentralization Specialist 1;
                                               Evaluation Expert 1.
              Pre-App 1999                7    Decentralization Specialist 1;       S               S
                                               Community Dev. Specialist 1;
                                               Evaluation Specialist 1;
                                               Textbooks Specialist 1;
                                               Fin. Mgmt. Specialist 1;
                                               Procurement Specialist 1;
                                               Education Specialist 1.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Jun 1999                    8    Country Officer 1;                   S               S
                                               Sr. Operations Officer 1;
                                               Textbooks Specialist 1;
                                               Education Specialists 3;
                                               Procurement Specialist 1;
                                               Fin. Mgmt. Specialist 1.

 Supervision
              Feb 2001                    1    Education Specialist 1.              S               S
              Jun 2001                    3    Education Specialists 2;             S               S
                                               Curriculum Specialist 1.
              Mid-term Eval.              8    Education Specialists 2;             S               S
              Sep-Oct 2002                     Curriculum Specialist 1;
                                               Evaluation Specialist 1;
                                               Decentralization Specialist 1;
                                               Procurement Specialist 1;
                                               Fin. Mgmt. Specialist 1;
                                               Dutch Cooperation Specialist 1.
              May 2003                    5    Education Specialists 2;             S               S
                                               Procurement Specialist 1;
                                               Fin. Mgmt. Specialist 1;
                                               Program Assistant 1.

 ICR
              Sep-Oct 2003                4     TL for ICR/                         S               S
                                                Operations Officer 1;
                                                Procurement Specialist 1;
                                                Fin. Mgmt. Specialist 1;
                                                Program Assistant 1.



                                                - 28 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      86.51                  180,376.43 *
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                     83.47                    117,268.09
  ICR                                               5.0                     36,000.00
  Total                                         174.98                     333,644.52
* Project preparation costs include support from the Norwegian Trust Fund #TF021432 for an
  amount equivalent to US$89,951. The Bank's project preparation costs were, therefore, US$90,425.43.




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Cellule d'Appui à la Décentralisation/Déconcentration de l'Education. Cadre référentiel de la décentralisation
         de l'éducation au Mali. Août 2003. Ministère de l'Education Nationale, République du Mali.

Chiswick, Barry. "The Economics of Language: The Roles of Education and Labor Market Outcomes." September
         1996. Human Capital Development Working Paper #70.

Cummings, S. M. and Stella Tamayo. "Language and Education in Latin America: An Overview." May 1994.
         Human Resource Development and Operations Policy Working Paper #30.

Dutcher, Nadine and Richard Tucker. "The Use of First and Second Languages in Education: A Review of
         International Experience." 1997. Pacific Islands Discussion Paper Series #18803.

Diagne, Amadou Wade. Étude sur les stratégies de transfert des acquis des écoles communautaires en matière de
         gestion des écoles vers les écoles pratiquant la Pédagogie Convergente. Août 1999.        Ministère de
         l'Education de Base, Secrétariat Général, République du Mali.

Fomba, Dr. Cheick Oumar (Responsable méthodologique) et Dr. Kabule W. Weva (Coordinateur thématique). La
         pédagogie convergente (PC) comme facteur d'amélioration de la qualité de l'éducation de base au Mali:
         Analyse du développement de l'innovation et perspectives.      Mai 2003.    Ministère de L'Education
         Nationale et Association pour le Développement de l'Education en Afrique (ADEA) [UNESCO]. Etudes
         de cas sur la qualité de l'éducation. Membres de l'équipe : Fantamady Keita, Cheick Oumar Fomba,
         Samba Traoré, Koura Diallo, Souleymane Kone, Youssouf Haidara, Alain Chabert.

Ministère de l'Education Nationale, Secrétariat Général, République du Mali. «Projet d'appui à l'amélioration
         des apprentissages dans les écoles fondamentales (PAAA).       Crédit No.3318 MLI : Rapport Final»
         Présenté par l'équipe du projet. Septembre 2003.

Ministère de l'Education Nationale, Centre National de l'Education, Division de l'Evaluation et de Recherche
         Pédagogique. Evaluation de la performance en français, en mathématiques et en langues nationales des
         élèves des classes de 5ème année des écoles à pédagogie convergente et des écoles classiques du premier
         cycle de l'enseignement fondamental au Mali. Version provisoire. Août 2003.

Patrinos, Harry and Eduardo Velez.       "Costs and Benefits of Bilingual Education in Guatemala: A Partial
         Analysis." October 1996. Human Capital Development. Working Paper #74.

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. "Republic of Mali: Improving Learning in Primary Schools Project."
         Report No: 19601-MLI. January 2000.




                                                      - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments

1.0       The Government of Mali's role during project implementation was satisfactory for the following reasons:

          1a. Counterpart funding was made available regularly and diligently, and this helped to ensure the
                smooth functioning of the Project.
          1b. The timely availability of funds constituted a significant amount in the Special Account and helped to
                ensure disbursements.
          1c. The Government facilitated the arrangement of Project activities to coincide with the SIP.

2.0       The principal activities of the Project were well managed during the designated project implementation
period. The successive supervision aide-memoire show evidence of corrective actions which were taken whenever
problems were identified. These actions resulted in the achievement of the principal Project activities.

3.0       With the exception of Component 3--Decentralization, which was not clearly defined, and therefore the
details could not be clearly outlined, Component 1 Pédagogie Convergente and Component 2.                 Community
partnerships worked very well, and anticipated results were achieved successfully.

4.0       The Project has brought about the following principal changes: (i) the reinforcement of decentralized
structures to manage training and to develop teaching materials which helped to develop real competence in
developing training materials; (ii) a change in attitude with respect to the policy of teaching in national languages;
(iii) the formalization of partnerships; and (iv) managing contracts with NGOs.

          A final evaluation report showing the results was prepared and shared with the ICR mission. However, it
would be prudent to state that Project sustainability is likely in the medium-term since (i) there have been changes
in the directors of the Pedagogical Centers [centers d'animation pédagogique (CAP)] who will play a critical role
in sustaining Project outcomes; and (ii) because the Project has just been completed.

5.0       The Bank's performance was also satisfactory during project implementation. For the Project specifically,
the World Bank Country Office team provided timely advice.                  The Project provided a valuable learning
opportunity.

6.0       There were some problems encountered during project implementation:

6(a)    The delay in the procurement of books in national languages for the first three levels of basic education,
        caused concerns about using pédagogie convergente, even though this should be independent of the
        procurement efforts of the PCU.
6(b)    The Community Partnerships component suffered some delays due to the signing of contracts with NGOs
        and because communities needed to be reassured that the school management committees would be formed.
        The contracts were signed finally in December 2002 as an urgent measure prior to project closing.
6(c)    Besides the difficulty in defining aspects to do with decentralization (content as well as implementation
        details), the issue of anchoring decentralization in the DAF and the creation of a separate unit in the
        department posed institutional problems.
6(d) The Project contributed to developing and reinforcing personnel capacity in procurement matters through
        external, professional development which was reinforced by practical application.         The quality of the
        procurement procedures improved slowly.
6(e)    The Government found that the procedures of the Bank were poorly adapted for a "Learning and Innovation
        Loan."
6(f)    The refinancing/replenishments for Project activities suffered from some delays. Accompanied with limited
        initial deposit, certain activities of the Project took time to be implemented.
6(g) During the most active phases, the Project had two Task Managers. The World Bank Country Office Task
        Manager really helped to manage the Project towards achieving its objectives. Project implementation was
        also made possible by the diligence of the personnel who worked on the Project, and by the spirit of



                                                             - 33 -

encouragement and enthusiasm that prevailed in the World Bank Country Office project team. The Task
Manager had an excellent grasp of the issues in the sector and the actors at all levels, having himself been a
government official in the first place. An administrator and an accomplished pedagogue, he had a clear
vision of the project and issues relating to the quality of education. These qualities helped to improve project
management.




                                                  - 34 -

Additional Annex 9. Background and Context for the Project

          Experimentation of the use of pédagogie convergente began in 1979 in the Ségou district in Mali.
Pédagogie convergente is a child-centered pedagogy which uses mother tongue or national language instruction
concomitant with French--the official language of instruction in Mali public schools. Pédagogie convergente is
founded on the principle of introducing children to concepts in the mother tongue and, then, moving on to
acquiring expertise in other languages (Bamananakan [the most widely used language for commercial purposes]
and French). Pédagogie convergente is characterized by the use of mother tongue/national language instruction as
the primary form during the first year of schooling with progressive introduction of the French language during the
second year and beyond until the second cycle (Grades 7-9) of schooling. In 1994 the Government extended the
1979 experiment, to introduce Pédagogie convergente in phases starting with the first year of schooling. The
objectives were to: (i) improve the quality of teaching; (ii) promote greater integration between the work of schools
and communities; (iii) develop bilingualism in children; (iv) help children to value their maternal language; (v)
increase the use of bilingual education; and (vi) improve access to education. In 1996, following an evaluation of
students who had undergone pédagogie convergente oriented instruction which showed improvements in student
learning, the Government passed a legislation (No. 96-049 dated August 23, 1996) stipulating that education at the
primary level would be imparted through the use of bilingual education. This laid the policy foundation for the use
of bilingual education in Mali.

          In 1998 the Government's education policy framework called Programme Décennal pour le
Développement de l'Education (PRODEC) which provides a broad vision of pedagogic, administrative and
financing reforms was being developed. Through PRODEC the Government anticipates that efficiency gains from
introducing bilingual education will gradually increase total education levels at a lower cost after allowing for the
initial higher cost of bilingual schooling due to developing supplementary mother tongue/national language
learning materials, teacher training and supervision. As a step to help the Government to operationalize PRODEC,
the Bank commenced the preparation of a Sector Investment Program (SIP). Since PRODEC was still being
articulated, in anticipation of its completion and to bridge the gap between the commencement of the SIP, the
World Bank provided financial and technical assistance in the form of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). At
the time of designing the LIL (1998), pédagogie convergente was being imparted in just over 300 public schools in
Mali. This methodology was scheduled to reach a full cycle 1 (Grades 1-6) in 2000. This resulted in the
preparation and implementation over a three-year period, of the "Improving Learning in Primary Schools" Project.
It was understood from the outset that the Project was not intended to generalize bilingual education or PC in all
schools in the country, but that this would be the first step towards accelerating the use of bilingual education
towards the goal of improving access to education for all. As the LIL was being implemented, the SIP took off
slowly. There was to some extent overlap in the implementation of the LIL and the SIP, with the LIL leading the
way to test the deepening of the use of bilingual education, and the lessons arising from the progressive
implementation being followed up by the SIP.

          Mali has a two cycle education system: Cycle 1 being Grades 1-6, and cycle 2 being Grades 7-9. From the
perspective of teaching/didactic and learning materials, Cycle 1 is divided into three levels: (i) first and second
years; (ii) third and fourth years; and (iv) fifth and sixth years. In 1998, the education system was characterized by
low gross enrollment rates--well below 50% overall, and much lower in rural areas (30% on average, and 25% for
girls), low student achievement at the end of primary and lower secondary schooling literacy levels over the years
(from 64% to 56%), low internal efficiency resulting in high unit costs, high repetition and dropout rates, poor
accessibility to education for all children--inadequate coverage of public primary schools for rural and peri-urban
populations; growth in community schools mainly supported by NGOs has improved access to some extent.




                                                          - 35 -

Additional Annex 10. Map




                            - 36 -

- 37 -

