Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1449 
Operation Name 
PRSC I 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Adjustment Operation 
Project ID 
P088820 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 15, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 28, 2005 
1. 
Key Development Issues and Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Years of mismanagement and corruption in government led to the Rose Revolution in Georgia with a new 
government that took office in November 2003.  From the outset, the new government was determined to fight 
corruption and improve governance.  Performance so far has been impressive. For one, revenue collection has 
been increased dramatically and the Government has cleared about two-thirds of the substantial wages and 
pensions arrears accumulated over the last several years.  This has had a significant impact on poverty reduction.  
For another, the Government has cracked down on corruption decisively and restructured and streamlined the 
government apparatus significantly, with substantial retrenchments. 
 
The Government’s reform program has received strong financial and technical support from the international 
community.  In particular, a donors’ conference in Brussels in June 2004 pledged more than US$1.0 billion, IMF 
approved a three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) in June 2004, and the Paris Club 
rescheduled Georgia’s debt in July 2004 which has lowered the burden of servicing. The World Bank’s Reform 
Support Credit, approved on June 24, 2004, provided urgent assistance to the new Government in the first phase 
of efforts to define and launch a bold program of economic, legal, and social reforms.   
 
Over the coming years, the challenge facing the Government will be to translate these early wins into lasting 
institutional change as much of what has been achieved is largely the result of revolutionary fervor.  In addition to 
further fiscal consolidation and a crack down on corruption, the difficult work of creating functioning 
administrative systems, building a professional civil service, enhancing the business climate, and improving social 
services are critical to reducing pervasive poverty and improving Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
steadily.    
 
The Government is fully aware of this challenge.  In the 2005 budget, the Government focuses on clearing all 
remaining arrears, further anti-corruption and civil service reform and on implementing poverty focused programs 
including increases in basic pensions and the introduction later in the year of a targeted poverty benefit.  The 
Government is finalizing a progress report on the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Program 
(EDPRP) which was presented in July 2003 and is committed to implementing the EDPRP. 
 
2. Proposed Objective(s) 
Building upon the principles and objectives of the Reform Support Credit, the proposed PRSC I, the first in a 
set of three annual PRSCs, embarks on a three year framework to support Government’s EDPRP objectives of 
improving growth and reducing poverty in Georgia.  Although there has been significant progress in the economy 
and major changes that have taken place since the new Government came to power, there remain challenges ahead 
with the design and formulation of strategies and development of action plans to deepen and sustain the reform 
program.  The proposed PRSC program aims to play a catalytic role in channeling financial and policy assistance, 
in support of the broad based changes made so far and to help government with their priorities and policy options. 
Page  2
3. Preliminary Description 
 
The proposed PRSC 1 would focus on the following essential reform themes: (i) enhancing public sector 
accountability and efficiency; (ii) improving electricity and gas sector services; (iii) improving the environment 
for private sector development; and (iv) improving health and education and alleviating poverty and vulnerability.
 
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed PRSC 1 would focus on the following essential reform themes: (i) enhancing public sector 
accountability and efficiency; (ii) improving electricity and gas sector services; (iii) improving the environment 
for private sector development; and (iv) improving health and education and alleviating poverty and vulnerability.
 
5. Tentative Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
20 
 Total 
20 
 
6. Contact Point 
Contact: Su Yong Song 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-0498  
 
Note:
 This information is provided for an evolving project. Certain components may not necessarily be included 
in the final project, while the scope and cost of other components may be adjusted. 
 
