LOAN NUMBER 8128-BR
Loan Agreement
(Piaui Green Growth and Inclusion Development Policy Loan-
Programa de Desenvolvimento Sustentdvel do Piaui)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF PIAUI


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement, as of the Signature Date (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement),
entered into between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") and the STATE OF PIAUI ("Borrower") for the purpose of
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which
are described in Section I.A of Schedule I to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
Whereas (B) the Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of the
proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section 11 of Schedule I to this
Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.
The Bank and the Borrower therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred and fifty million
Dollars ($350,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07
of this Agreement ("Loan").


﻿2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section 1l of Schedule I to this Agreement. The Borrower's
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Finance.
2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%). of the Loan amount.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread:
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. (a)    The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance,  request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from
a Variable Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a
Fixed Spread: and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.
(b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-2-


﻿(c)    Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Borrower's maintenance of, an
appropriate expenditure program; sustainable debt; and appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor, as referred to in the introductory
paragraph of this Agreement; and (ii) the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program and the actions specified in Section l.A of Schedule I to
this Agreement;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt
and/or fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or (ii) reversing the
objectives of the Program or any action taken under the Program
including any action specified in Section LA of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
-3-


﻿ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
(b)    An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower
to reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action
listed in Section l.A of Schedule I to this Agreement, in a manner that
would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of
the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:
(a)    That the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
the carrying out of the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b)    That the Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of an
appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor.
5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Guarantor's Central Bank
5.03.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the Signature Date ,
but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the
Loan which expire on September 6, 2013.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Borrower's Representative is the State Governor.
6.02.  The Borrower's Address is:
Palicio de Karnak
Av. Antonio Freire, 1450 - Centro
CEP: 64001-040
Teresina - P1
Facsimile: (55-86) 3321-1696
-4-


﻿6.03.  The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD           248423(MCI) or       1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145(MCI)
AGREED at    j   fiter  Ccma- nitSs7-k          rlet'a on behalf of the
Bank on     2,     0V .20,    vand at        ron
behalf of the Borr wer on A&Z.   15, 20..-
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By                                 Ot_
Authorized Representative
STATE OF PIAUI
By
--zed Re,
-5-


﻿SCHEDULE I
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Program
A.     Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Borrower under
the Program, aimed at: (i) promoting Green Growth, (ii) promoting access to and
quality of basic education; and (iii) increasing the efficiency in public
management, include the following:
1.     Promotion of Green Growth in rural areas.
(a)    The Borrower has improved land tenure security for small family
farmers, larger producers, as well as for Quilombolas Communities
located in rural areas, with particular focus on the Cerrado Reserve, as
evidenced by:
(i)    the enactment of the Borrower's Law No. 6,127 of November
21, 2011, authorizing (A) the donation of public rural land to
family farmers occupying and/or working said land; and (B) the
sale of public rural land to larger scale producers occupying and
working the land for at least 5 consecutive years, and
(ii)  the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 14,625 of October 31,
2011, creating the Borrower's program for regularization of
lands occupied by Quilombola Communities.
(b)    The Borrower has promoted sustainable agriculture in rural areas, and
therefore increasing employment and income in family farming, as
evidenced by:
(i)    the enactment of the Borrower's Complementary Law No. 162
of December 30. 2010, creating the directorate of rural poverty
alleviation (Diretoria de Combate i Pobreza Rural) under the
Borrower's secretariat of rural development; and
(ii)  the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 14.626 of October 31,
2011, creating the Borrower's program for the elimination of
rural poverty (Programa Estadual de GeraCdo de Emprego e
Renda no Meio Rural -PROGERE), and the program unit to
manage said program (Diretoria de Combate a Pobreza Rural -
SDR/DCPR).
-6-


﻿(c)    The Borrower has promoted the sustainable use of rural landscapes, and
therefore ensuring environmental sustainability, as evidenced by the
enactment of the Borrower's Law No. 6,132 of November 28, 2011,
creating the rural environmental cadastre, a mechanism for rural
environmental registration and licensing.
2.     Improve Access to and Quality of Basic Education.
(a)    The Borrower has promoted equal access to basic education programs, as
evidenced by the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 14.628 of
October 31, 2011, introducing a distance-learning program  and
educational multimedia tools to improve school enrollment in elementary
and middle schools located in rural and urban areas of the Borrower's
territory.
(b)    The Borrower has taken the following steps to improve management and
learning outcomes in public elementary and middle schools, as evidenced
by:
(i)    the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 14,627 of October
31, 2011, authorizing SEDUC to implement an accelerated
learning program (Programa de Correqdo do Fl-o Escolar), to:
(A) decrease age-grade distortion, repetition and dropout rates:
and (B) improve the flow and quality of said schools:
(ii)  the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 14,385 of January 13,
2011, establishing a formal process for the merit-based selection
of the school system regional manager (Gestor de Gerencia
Regional de Educaqdo), and
(iii)  the issuance of the Borrower's Decree No. 14,607 of October 14,
2011. establishing a formal process for the competitive selection
of school principals.
(c)    The Borrower has promoted the participation of vulnerable youth in
public policy and educational programs, as evidenced by the enactment
of the Borrower's Complementary Law No. 162 of December 30, 2010,
creating the coordination agency for youth, responsible for the
implementation of the Borrower's Plan for Youth Empowerment.
3.     Increase the Efficiency of Public Management
The Borrower has strengthen the institutional framework governing public
management for an efficient public service delivery, as evidenced by the issuance of the
Borrower's Decree No. 14,637 of November 22, 2011, creating the result-based and
-7-


﻿financial management steering committee (Comissdo de Gestdo Financeira e Gestdo por
Resultados), for the purposes of defining and enforcing the consolidation of a result-
based management system in the Borrower's public agencies, including the task of
adjusting payments due to each of the Borrower's public agencies in accordance with
said agency's performance and the monitoring of a portfolio of priority projects linked to
the Strategic Multi-year Plan 2012-2015.
Section H.   Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.     General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.     Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations                 Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche            349,125,000
(2) Front-end Fee                           875,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to Section               0
2.07(c) of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT                             350,000,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
I.    No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied:
(a)    with the adequacy of the Guarantor's macroeconomic policy framework
and the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program; and
(b)   that the Borrower is maintaining an appropriate expenditure program,
sustainable debt and appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
-8-


﻿D.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
I.    all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2.    the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 30, 2013. The Bank will grant an
extension of the Closing Date after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.
-9-


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
I. The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date                  Installment Share
(Expressed as a Percentage)
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning August 15, 2017
through February 15. 2030                      3.7%
On August 15, 2030                                    3.8%
2.    If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b)    Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph I of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule. to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
- 10-


﻿3.    (a)    Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs I and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
5.    If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-llI-


﻿APPENDIX
Section 1. Definitions
1. "Cerrado Reserve" means a savannah and dry forest biome in the central
highlands of the Guarantor's territory which covers an area equivalent to 200
million hectares in the States of Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goids and
Tocantins, and parts of the States of Bahia, Maranhao, Minas Gerais, Piaui and
Sdo Paulo.
2.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group         Sub-group  Description of Item
112                      Alcoholic beverages
121                      Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
122                      Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                      Radioactive and associated materials
667                      Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718           718.7      Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728           728.43     Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3      Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
971                      Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates)
-12-


﻿(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
3.     "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
4.     "Green Growth" means resource efficient, low-carbon, and socially-inclusive
growth.
5.     "Guarantor" means the Federative Republic of Brazil.
6.     "Plan for Youth Empowerment" means the plan (Piano Estadual de Juventude)
approved pursuant Law No. 5,903 of October 14, 2009, setting forth a set of
targets and programs aimed at the empowerment of youth (from 15 to 29 years
old) in the Borrower's territory.
7.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to: (i)
promote Green Growth; (ii) promote access to and quality of basic education; and
(iii) increase the efficiency in public management, as well as to achieve
sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter dated
November 22, 2011, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
8.     "Quilombola Communities" means historical Afro-Brazilian communities living
mainly in rural areas within the Borrower's territory.
9.     "SEDUC" means Secretaria de Educaqdo e Cultura, the Borrower's Secretariat
of Education and Culture.
-13-


﻿10.   "Signature Date" means the latest of the two dates on which: (i) the Bank and the
Borrower signed the Loan Agreement, and (ii) the Guarantor and the Bank
signed the Guarantee Agreement, and such definition applied to all references to
"the date of the Loan Agreement" and/or "the date of the Guarantee Agreement"
in the General Conditions.
11.   "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.
12.   "Strategic Multi-year Plan 2012-2015" means the multi-year plan prepared by the
Borrower as mandated by Law No. 05 of July 15, 1991, setting forth the priority
programs to be developed, the units within the Borrower's public administration
responsible for its implementation, as well as the sources of funding during the
period 2012-2015, as approved by Law 6,154 of January 5, 2012.
Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:
1.    The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article 11 are renumbered
accordingly.
3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution General/17), and 5.09 (Financial Management:
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans: Documents: Records
(c)    The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."
-14-


﻿6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07 Program Monitoring and Evaluation
...   (c)    The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program").
"Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
-15-


