                                             Document of
                                         The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR2793



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-81280)



                                           ON A LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                   STATE OF PIAUÍ, BRAZIL

                               WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE

                             FEDERATIVE REPLUBIC OF BRAZIL

                                              FOR A

         PIAUÍ GREEN GROWTH AND INCLUSION DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                         September 19, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Brazil Country Management
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 BRAZIL – GOVERNMENTAL FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 19, 2011)

                                  Currency Unit
                               Brazilian Real (BRL)

                          BRL R$1.00     =    US$0.538
                            US$1.00      =    BRL R$1.860


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAR            Cadastro Ambiental Rural
               (Rural Environmental Cadastre)
CNI            Confederação Nacional da Indústria
               (National Industry Confederation)
CPS            Country Partnership Strategy
DPL            Development Policy Loan
FPE            Fundo de Participação dos Estados e do Distrito Federal
               (State and Federal District Participation Fund)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GoB            Government of Brazil
GoP            Government of Piauí
ha             hectares
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICMS           Imposto sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços
               (Brazilian State Value-Added Tax)
IDEB           Índice de Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica
               (Basic Education Development Index)
INTERPI        Instituto das Terras do Piauí
               (Piauí State Land Institute)
IPI            Imposto Sobre Produtos Industrializados
               (Tax on Industrialized Products)
NE             Northeast
PCPR           Programa de Combate à Pobreza Rural
               (Rural Poverty Reduction Program)
POLONORDESTE   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Áreas Integradas do Nordeste
               (Program for Integrated Rural Development of the Northeast)
PPA       Plano Plurianual
          (Multi-Year Plan)
PROGERE   Programa Estadual de Geração de Emprego e Renda no Meio Rural
          (Piauí State Program for the Elimination of Rural Poverty)
PRONAF    Programa Nacional para o Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar
          (Program for the Strengthening of Family Farming)
PSIA      Poverty and Social Impact Assessment
SDR       Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Rural do Estado do Piauí
          (State Secretariat of Rural Development)
SEDUC     Secretaria da Educação e Cultura do Piauí
          (State Secretariat of Education and Culture)
SEFAZ     Secretaria da Fazenda do Piauí
          (State Secretariat of Finance)
SEMAR     Secretaria do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hídricos do Estado do Piauí
          (State Secretariat of Environment and Water Resources)
SEPLAN    Secretaria do Planejamento do Estado do Piauí
          (State Secretariat of Planning)
SIMO      Sistema de Monitoramento e Acompanhamento de Ações Estratégicas
          (Strategic Actions Monitoring System)
SWAp      Sector-wide Approach
UK        United Kingdom
WB        World Bank




              Vice President:         Hasan Tuluy
              Country Director:       Deborah Wetzel
              Sector Manager:         Emilia Battaglini
              Task Team Leader:       Garo Batmanian
              ICR Team Leader         Garo Batmanian
                                                                       Brazil

                          Piauí Green Growth and Inclusion Development Policy Loan


                                                                  CONTENTS




A. Basic Information................................................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .............................................................................................................. ii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs .......................................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) ......................................................................................................................... v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design .................................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................................. 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................................. 19
6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................................... 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................................. 24
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..................................... 25
Annex 2. Piauí DPL Actions and Policy Development Matrix ............................................................ 26
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results........................................................................... 28
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................................. 29
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............................................... 30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .............................................................................................. 31
MAP ...................................................................................................................................................... 33
A. Basic Information
                                                                                    Piaui Green Growth and
Country:                     Brazil                    Program Name:
                                                                                    Inclusion DPL
Program ID:                  P126449                   L/C/TF Number(s):            IBRD-81280
ICR Date:                    09/27/2013                ICR Type:                    Core ICR
                                                                                    STATE OF PIAUI-
Lending Instrument:          DPL                       Borrower:
                                                                                    BRAZIL
Original Total
                             USD 350.00M               Disbursed Amount:            USD 350.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:              USD 350.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Piauí State Secretariat of Planning
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                           Revised / Actual
       Process                  Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:              06/28/2011     Effectiveness:             06/15/2012              05/31/2012
Appraisal:                   12/12/2011     Restructuring(s):
Approval:                    03/06/2012     Mid-term Review:
                                            Closing:                   03/30/2013              03/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                              Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                           Moderate
Bank Performance:                                      Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower                          Ratings
Quality at Entry:                Satisfactory    Government:                          Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision:          Satisfactory                                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                     Overall Borrower
                                 Satisfactory                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                QAG Assessments (if
                                  Indicators                                                Rating:
       Performance                                          any)
Potential Problem Program at No                        Quality at Entry (QEA): None

                                                                                                                i
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any time                                Quality of Supervision
                             No                                                         None
(Yes/No):                                                   (QSA):
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                              Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                             11                        11
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                              44                        44
Other social services                                                         15                        15
Primary education                                                             20                        20
Secondary education                                                           10                        10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                                  30                    30
Land administration and management                                                 30                    30
Other rural development                                                            14                    14
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement                           11                    11
Social Inclusion                                                                   15                    15

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                                At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                Hasan A. Tuluy                              Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:              Deborah L. Wetzel                           Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:                Emilia Battaglini                           Karin Erika Kemper
Program Team Leader:           Garo J. Batmanian                           Garo J. Batmanian
ICR Team Leader:               Garo J. Batmanian
ICR Primary Author:            Garo J. Batmanian


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the operation was to support the GoP in the implementation of its efforts to achieve
higher rates of green, inclusive growth. In particular, it supports the government's strategy to develop
policy reforms and programs which could:
  (i) promote statewide rural green inclusive growth by: (a) improving land tenure security, (b)
promoting sustainable agricultural practices, and (c) ensuring environmental sustainability;

                                                                                                              ii
  (ii) promote inclusive growth through improved statewide public education and a strengthened role for
youth in the labor market; and
  (iii) promote fiscal sustainability through a strengthened institutional framework for efficient public
service delivery through the creation and implementation of a results-based management tool within the
public sector.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving authority)
Not applied

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                    Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                            Formally
                                                     Values (from                             Achieved at
     Indicator           Baseline Value                                  Revised Target
                                                        approval                         Completion or Target
                                                                              Values
                                                      documents)                                 Years
                   100% increase in the number of applications for rural land tenure regularization submitted to
Indicator 1 :
                   the Piauí State Land Institute (Instituto das Terras do Piauí, INTERPI).
Value
(quantitative or   826                          1652                                      3247
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                   06/30/2013                                06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Exceeds the target as it represents an increase of 390% for this action.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      PROGERE operating in 112 municipalities
Value
(quantitative or   Zero                         112                                       150
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                   06/30/2013                                06/30/2013
Comments
                   The indicator was fully achieved. Most importantly, PROGERE has already benefitted
(incl. %
                   nearly 5,000 small farmers.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      130,000 ha of land registered in the CAR in the Cerrado region
Value
(quantitative or   Zero                         130,000                                   Zero
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                   06/30/2013                               06/30/2013
Comments           The achievement of this indicator was affected by the approval of a new federal law which
(incl. %           mandates the CAR for all rural properties in the country. This strengthened the state policy
achievement)       but required adjustments in the state law, and thus affected implementat
                   Decrease, by at least 1 percentage point annually, from 38.1 in 2010 to 36 by June 2013, in
Indicator 4 :      the percentage of children more than two years behind grade level in grades 1 to 4 in state
                   public schools
Value
(quantitative or   38.10                        36                                        36
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                  06/30/2013                              06/30/2013
Comments           The indicator was successfully achieved. This number actually refers to the entire

                                                                                                              iii
(incl. %           fundamental education cycle because these were the data available at appraisal. New data
achievement)       for grades 1 to 4 indicate a 34% decrease in distortion from 2010 to 2013.
Indicator 5 :      60% of state projects or programs included in the results-based management system
Value
(quantitative or   Zero                          60%                                        60%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                   06/30/2013                              06/30/2013
Comments           The indicator target was successfully achieved. The state implemented the integration of
(incl. %           databases from the State Secretariats of Planning and Finance, thus enabling the joint
achievement)       monitoring of financial and physical processes of the investments.
                   15% increase in the number of eligible Common PRONAF (excluding PRONAF A and B)
Indicator 6 :
                   credit applications received
Value
(quantitative or   1177                          1353                                       1530
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                   06/30/2013                                   06/30/2013
Comments           The indicator target was successfully achieved, a 30% increase from the baseline reference
(incl. %           target. This increase could be partially attributed to the State's regularization of land tenure
achievement)       for 1,300 small farmers, which enabled them to apply to PRONAF.
                   20% increase in the number of enrollments in secondary education through the use of the
Indicator 7 :
                   Piauí Digital Program and other technologies
Value
(quantitative or   170,922                       205,106                                    179,601
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                    06/30/2013                                 06/30/2013
Comments
                   Target not achieved. Implementation was affected by short-term financial issues beyond the
(incl. %
                   State's control.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Selection of all the regional managers through the new selection process
Value
(quantitative or   20                            21                                         21
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                    06/30/2013                                 06/30/2013
Comments
                   The indicator target was fully achieved. All regional managers were selected through the
(incl. %
                   new selection process
achievement)
                   50% increase in number of Municipal Youth Councils created by portaria from 8 Municipal
Indicator 9 :
                   Councils in 2010
Value
(quantitative or   8                             12                                         31
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2010                    06/30/2013                                 06/30/2013
Comments
                   The indicator was successfully achieved, a 287.5% increase from the baseline reference
(incl. %
                   target.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     At least 80% of school principals selected according to Decree 14,607
Value
                   0                             395                                        338
(quantitative or

                                                                                                                  iv
Qualitative)
Date achieved       12/30/2010                  06/30/2013                             06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %            Target achieved with 86% school principals selected, instead of the expected 80%.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                                   Values (from                          Achieved at
       Indicator          Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                     approval                         Completion or Target
                                                                          Values
                                                   documents)                               Years
Indicator 1 :       N/A
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

            Date ISR                                                                  Actual Disbursements
 No.                                 DO                             IP
            Archived                                                                     (USD millions)
   1       04/27/2012            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                                                                         v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
        Macroeconomic
1.      Brazil’s relative resilience to the global financial crisis reflected good macroeconomic
management and a solid financial system. Following the global crisis in September 2008, Brazil
experienced a sudden reduction in external and domestic credit, and marked currency depreciation.
Rapidly falling external demand and a sharp decline in investment led to a 4.2 percent contraction in the
gross domestic product (GDP) in the fourth quarter of 2008 followed by a 2 percent decline in the first
quarter of 2009. This caused contagion in domestic financial markets, a drop in commodity prices, a
curtailment of external and domestic credit, a decline in exports, a decrease in industrial production, and
an increase in unemployment, among other effects. However, Brazil’s fiscal framework provided the
Government with the flexibility to successfully respond to the global financial crisis with an array of
fiscal, monetary and external measures to stimulate domestic demand.
2.      Piauí represents a 1.6 percent share of the national population, with 3,118,360 inhabitants. At
25.1 million hectares, Piauí is slightly larger than the UK or about the size of the US state of Oregon. Its
population density is the lowest of Brazil’s northeastern states (about 12.4 inhabitants per km2).
3.      Transfers from the Federal Government to the states through the State and Federal District
Participation Fund (Fundo de Participação dos Estados e do Distrito Federal, FPE) constitute one of
Piauí’s main sources of revenue. Revenues from the FPE showed a strong growth of 56 percent between
2003 and 2010. The FPE’s drop in 2009 was the result of the effects of the financial crisis.
4.      Although Piauí is among Brazil’s poorest states and thus depends in great part on the FPE, it is
trying to change this situation. Piauí’s GDP grew 6.2 percent in 2009, reaching R$19 billion. This
growth surpassed the growth rate of the Brazilian economy, which experienced a decline of 0.3 percent.
This solid growth was driven mainly by industrial activities and services, which grew 12.9 percent and
5.4 percent, respectively. From 2002 to 2009, the State had the fourth fastest-growing GDP rate in the
country and the largest growth in the Northeast region. As a result of this good growth performance, the
State’s unemployment rate remains at low levels.
        Green growth
5.      Piauí faces a profound contradiction represented by the wealth of its natural resources on the one
hand, and the low level of its social indicators on the other. The State encompasses 25.1 million hectares
and is endowed with greater natural resources than its Northeastern neighbors. The State contains more
than six million hectares of well-drained flat land viable for high-value agriculture (Cerrado region). In
contrast to the rest of the Northeast (with the exception of Maranhão, which has certain characteristics
similar to those of Piauí), most of the State receives adequate rainfall for rainfed agriculture. Piauí also
possesses more than half of all the groundwater resources of the Brazilian Northeast. The southeastern
portion of the State contains significant mineral resources, notably deposits of lime and phosphate that
are important for agriculture. A major contributor to the sector’s growth was the excellent performance
of the cultivation of soybeans and other grains in the Cerrado region; these crops achieved high
productivity levels and incorporated new areas of cultivation as part of process of productive occupation
of the region known as MAPITOBA (parts of the States of Maranhão, Piauí, Tocantins and Bahia).



                                                     1
6.       Piauí was the Brazilian state with the highest growth in real GDP in 2008 (8.8 percent),
surpassing the national average (5.2 percent) and that of the Northeast (5.5 percent). The good results in
2008 were due to agriculture, which accounted for 7.3 percent of the State’s economy compared to 4.5
percent in 2007. This represented 1.1 percent of national agriculture in 2008 compared to 0.6 percent in
2007, an increase of 62.1 percent in real terms.
7.       The Cerrado region of Piauí, covering 37 percent of the State, is sparsely populated. Its
occupation began 17 years ago by farmers and ranchers from southern Brazil who were attracted by the
quality of the area for growing cash crops, especially soybeans. Soybean cultivation in Piauí yields the
highest productivity in the country, totaling 3.3 tons/ha in 2008. As a result, soybean production in Piauí
increased by 761 percent in the past decade, while corn, planted as a second crop on the same farms
increased by 49 percent.
8.       The rapid expansion of agriculture in the previously unoccupied Cerrado region led to a high
deforestation rate in the past decade. By 2010, about 19,300 km2, or 21 percent of the original vegetation,
had been cleared as a result of agricultural expansion in the Cerrado of Piauí, of which 5,193 km2 (5.6
percent) were cleared between 2002 and 2010. Twenty-five municipalities in Piauí are designated by
law as belonging to the Cerrado biome. These accounted for 71.5 percent of the production of annual
crops in the State but also for 75.5 percent of Cerrado deforestation in the 2009–2010 period. Four
municipalities (Baixa Grande do Ribeiro, Uruçuí, Palmeira do Piauí and Currais) were on the national
list of 20 municipalities in the Cerrado with the largest deforested area in the country during the 2009–
2010 period, ranking 1st, 2nd, 13th and 18th, respectively. They accounted for 39 percent of all Cerrado
deforestation in Piauí in that period.
9.       The challenge for the Government of Piauí is to further strengthen its presence and effectiveness
in environmental management, and to be ahead of the moving frontier rather than following behind
private sector trends. Piauí has made great strides in recent years in developing the legal and institutional
bases for environmental management. These include the adoption of laws for a Piauí State
Environmental Policy, a Water Resources Policy, a Forest Policy, and the creation of environmental
licensing and law enforcement capacity. The State also took over the responsibility for forest
management authorizations and forest law enforcement from the Federal Government, while also
adopting, in its Cerrado region, stricter Legal Reserve requirements than those of the federal Forest
Code. Piauí also created state-protected areas to promote ecological corridors. This is the case of the
Chapada da Serra Branca Ecological Station (21,587 hectares), which links the Serra da Capivara and
Serra das Confusões National Parks.
Education
10.      Piauí’s performance in the education sector is poor. The State’s illiteracy rate improved
throughout the past decade but remained high, with 23.4 percent of people aged 15 or older in 2009 were
illiterate, compared to the national illiteracy rate of 10 percent. This was the second-worst state rate in
the country.
11.      Access to basic education (grades 1 to 9) has improved. However, there is still a need to provide
the most vulnerable and low-income groups, mainly those living in rural areas, with access to this level
of education. The situation is even more severe in secondary education.
12.      The quality of education is low, as measured by national evaluations. Students’ performance, as
measured by the Basic Education Development Index (Índice de Desenvolvimento da Educação Básica
IDEB), has shown some progress in recent years. However, significant improvements are still needed,
mainly in secondary education.

                                                     2
Relationship to the Country Partnership Strategy
13.     This Development Policy Loan (DPL) operation was fully consistent and closely aligned with
the objectives of the Brazil Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2012–2015 (Report 63731-BR,
discussed by the Executive Directors on November 1, 2011), especially with the objective of developing
new partnerships at subnational level and focusing on the country’s pending environmental and poverty
reduction challenges. The aim of the policy framework supported under the DPL was to contribute to the
State of Piauí’s efforts to promote green and inclusive growth by addressing the challenges of expanding
sustainable agriculture while improving environmental compliance with land use and land tenure
security; improving the coverage and quality of education for the poor; and increasing the efficiency of
fiscal and public sector management.
14.     Proactive local development strategies and policies were urgently needed to ensure that the
envisioned growth for Piauí will lead to the emergence of a competitive and sustainable formation of
human capital, agricultural expansion, natural resources conservation, and equitable access to
opportunities and public services. Improvements in the education system are a prerequisite for sustained
agricultural production, environmental preservation, poverty reduction, and economic development in
the State.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
15.    Program Development Objectives. The objective of the operation was to support the GoP in the
implementation of its efforts to achieve higher rates of green, inclusive growth. In particular, it
supported the Government’s strategy to develop policy reforms and programs that could:
           (i)   promote statewide rural green, inclusive growth by: (a) improving land tenure security,
                 (b) promoting sustainable agricultural practices, and (c) ensuring environmental
                 sustainability;
           (ii) promote inclusive growth through improved statewide public education and a
                 strengthened role for youth in the labor market; and
           (iii) promote fiscal sustainability through a strengthened institutional framework for
                 efficient public service delivery through the creation and implementation of a results-
                 based management tool within the public sector.

Key indicators

16.    Promote Green Growth in Rural Areas: (i) a 100 percent increase in the number of
applications for rural land tenure regularization submitted to INTERPI; (ii) a 15 percent increase in the
number of eligible Common PRONAF credit applications received; (iii) PROGERE operating in 112
municipalities; and (iv) 130,000 ha of land in the CAR of the Cerrado region.

17.     Improve Access to and Quality of Education: (i) a 20 percent increase in the number of
secondary education enrollments through the use of the Piauí Digital Program and other technologies;
(ii) a decrease, by at least 1 percent annually (from 38.1 in 2010 to 36), in the percentage of children
more than two years behind grade level in grades 1 to 4 in state public schools; (iii) selection of all
regional managers through the new selection process; (iv) at least 80 percent of school principals
selected according to procedures in Decree 13,868; and (v) a 50 percent increase in the number of
Municipal Youth Councils created by legal documentation, from eight Municipal Councils in 2010.


                                                   3
18.    Increase the State’s Public Management Efficiency: 60 percent of state projects or programs
included in the results-based management system.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

19.     Not applicable.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

20.     The policies supported by the DPL were part of the GoP’s Strategic Plan and vision of promoting
the State’s development through the expansion of sustainable agriculture with social inclusion. This
operation supported state policies and programs that promote: (i) green, inclusive growth in rural areas
through the improvement of land tenure security, sustainable agriculture, and environmental
sustainability; (ii) inclusive growth through the enhancement of access to basic education, increased
learning outcomes of public schools, and strengthened participation of vulnerable youth in public
policies and programs; and (iii) fiscal sustainability through increased efficiency in public expenditure
management.

1.4.1   Promote Green, Inclusive Growth in Rural Areas
21.     Piauí has 1.3 million ha of registered state public land and 10 million ha of vacant lands
(generally public but not yet registered as such). About 70 percent of public lands are occupied mainly
by small farmers, except in the Cerrado region where the occupation is mainly by medium- and large-
scale farmers.
22.     INTERPI estimates that there are approximately 9,000 small farmers on public land who have
direct concessions for use rather than full property titles. For the most part, these properties, which are
generally located on state farms, have been already surveyed or georeferenced using conventional
technologies. Despite the history of active cultivation, the lack of formal property titles for these lands
excludes many of these small family farmers from accessing formal credit from various sources
including the Program for the Strengthening of Family Farmers (Programa Nacional para o
Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar, PRONAF), a major, well-resourced federal agricultural credit
program aimed at small farmers. This situation is a significant limitation to their productivity as well as
a source of socioeconomic vulnerability.
23.      Access to PRONAF credit requires proof of land ownership as evidenced by a title document.
This title is held as collateral if the loan exceeds R$20,000 (nearly US$10,000), but even when the loan
is for a lesser amount, proof of title is still required. The farm sizes for which Common PRONAF credits
are typically accessed range from approximately 60 to 280 ha, with average sizes around 120 ha. Since
2007, banks and especially the Banco do Nordeste, the larger conduit of PRONAF in Piauí, have seen a
significant decline in the number and total value of Common PRONAF credits due to increasing
insistence on lending only against properties on which land use is in environmental compliance.
24.    The rapid expansion of commercial agriculture and agribusiness in Piauí has increased the
challenges of sustainable agricultural growth. The principal concern is with the rapid occupation of the
southwestern Cerrado lands by private commercial-crop agriculture and its social and environmental
impact. The GoP has defined a core area of 25 of Piauí’s 224 municipalities, covering 69,800 km2 or 28
percent of the State’s area, where agricultural development is likely to be concentrated. The occupation

                                                    4
of the Cerrado by large mechanized and partly irrigated soybean cultivation over the last 17 years is
environmentally significant because it implies suppression of native vegetation (through forest and bush
clearing), with impacts on biodiversity, quality and quantity of surface and groundwater, and other
ecological functions of native plant cover.
25.     In order to encourage greater agricultural production in the Cerrado region under a legal
framework, the State Government enacted Law 5,966 in 2010. This law authorized land regularization
over a one-year period through sale, grant or lease of unregistered public land, or co-validation of
previously issued titles. However, this law had no direct environmental requirement linked to the
process. The passage of this law produced strong interest and was followed by 1,121 requests for
regularization. Of these, 912 applications were for the purchase of plots ranging from 350 to 2,500 ha,
with an average size of 482 ha. These applications mainly pertain to land cultivated by agribusiness
operators in areas that appear to be unregistered public land. Another limitation was that Law 5,966 of
2010 covered only Cerrado municipalities and even then only a subset, and did not explicitly check for
overlaps with areas for biodiversity conservation or areas being claimed by quilombolas.1
26.    With the increased occupation of Brazilian rural areas, quilombola areas are under greater threat
because they have no land title or formal rights to the land. To rectify this situation, the Brazilian
Constitution of 1988 recognized the right of quilombolas to receive from the State the land they occupy.
However, little changed until l995, when a Federal Decree defined the process and terms for recognition
of quilombola lands. The first step is for the quilombola community to file a claim for the land and
present its sociocultural distinctiveness. Some 190 communities in Piauí had filed such claims by 2010.
On average, each claim benefits about 100 families and covers 9,000 ha. However, there are cases in
which the population occupied area is much larger due to local environmental and historical conditions.
For instance, the quilombola area of Lagoas in Piauí is composed of 1,498 families and occupies over
62,000 ha.

1.4.2    Improve Access to and Quality of Education
27.      Piauí has one of the lowest student performance scores in Brazil, measured by national student
assessment tests as indicated by the IDEB. Some progress has been made in recent years, but this index
still needs significant improvements, mainly in secondary education. The 2009 IDEB scores for Piauí’s
state schools in the fourth and eighth grades were 3.8 and 3.4, respectively. These scores were above the
Northeast average for these two grades (3.7 and 3.0), but were still far below the national average (4.9
and 3.8). In the same year, the IDEB score for secondary education in Piauí was 2.7, the lowest in the
country. Average years of schooling in the State were also very low (5.2 years) when compared with
other Brazilian states.
28.    Repetition and dropout rates were also high. For the first nine years of fundamental education,2
Piauí had the country’s second-worst repetition rate (16.4 percent); the worst rate was that of the State of
Sergipe, 23 percent. At this same educational level, in 2009 Piauí’s six percent dropout rate was six
times higher than those for the States of São Paulo and Santa Catarina. The dropout rate in Piauí faces
the greatest challenge in secondary education: nearly 22 percent of students leave before the end of the
school calendar year. This represents the country’s highest dropout rate.


1
 Communities that represent the remaining members of runaway slave communities from Brazil’s colonial period.
2
 The Brazilian basic education system includes preschool, fundamental education (grades 1 to 9), and secondary education (grades 10 to
12).

                                                                   5
29.     The high illiteracy rate, combined with the high repetition and dropout rates, is a major
impediment to the social and economic inclusion of the poor. To address this issue, the Government is
developing a major program in the 30 most vulnerable municipalities by supporting the literacy program
in these areas. The Bolsa Família National Register (Bolsa Família Cadastro Único) was used to
identify the most vulnerable groups that could be part of the literacy program; the Brasil Alfabetizado
model was adopted for this purpose.
30.     The GoP believes that improving the educational standard of its population is one of the most
effective strategies for fighting poverty and has further impacts on increasing social capital and
economic inclusion and on generating income and employment. In addition, special attention is placed
on increasing the participation of youth in the most vulnerable groups in accessing quality education and
in the process of decision making on public policies, as well as in learning how to become better citizens.

1.4.3   Increase the State’s Public Management Efficiency
31.       The GoP has launched a comprehensive reform program to improve its effectiveness and
efficiency in the provision of public services. Recognizing the changing and growing demand for quality
and lower cost of public sector services, the State of Piauí is progressively shifting to a results-oriented
focus. To this end, in 2011 the State adopted mechanisms based on public sector management
experiences in other states, especially Ceará and Pernambuco. The various State Secretariats have been
clustered in six areas according to their potential synergies: (i) social dimension I, (ii) social dimension
II, (iii) law enforcement and justice, (iv) infrastructure and environment, (v) economic development and
public enterprises, and (vi) institutional dimension. Each area meets with the Governor at least once a
month. At these meetings, each Secretariat or agency presents the progress made toward achieving the
agreed targets, as well as challenges and demands that can be met by the other participating agencies.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
32.     Not applicable.

1.6 Other significant changes
33.     Not applicable.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance
34.     This was a single-tranche operation that disbursed upon effectiveness. Negotiations between the
World Bank and the GoP went smoothly, and the loan approval process went swiftly with no significant
delays. The operation was approved on March 6, 2012, and effectiveness was issued on May 31, 2012.
The Loan closed as scheduled on March 30, 2013. The policy actions are summarized in Table 1:




                                                     6
                       Table 1. Piauí DPL Actions and Policy Development Matrix
Policy Area                                                Policy Actions: Single-Tranche
                                                             Prior Actions (Completed)
Component A. Promote Green Inclusive Growth in Rural Areas
Subcomponent A1. Improve Land Tenure Security
Regularize land tenure for small x State Law No. 6,127 of November 21, 2011 approved, authorizing grants
family farmers and larger            of land to family farmers occupying and/or working said land, and sale to
producers, with particular focus     larger-scale producers occupying and working the land for at least 5 years
on the Cerrado
Regularize land tenure for       x Decree No. 14,625 of October 31, 2011 enacted, creating the Program for
quilombola communities               Land Regularization for Quilombola Communities
Increase employment and income       x Complementary Law No.162 of December 30, 2010 enacted, creating the
in family farming: productive          Directorate of Rural Poverty Alleviation under the Secretariat of Rural
inclusion                              Development (Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Rural do Estado do Piauí,
                                       SDR); and Decree No.14,626 of October 31, 2011 enacted, creating the
                                       State Program for the Elimination of Rural Poverty (PROGERE), and the
                                       Program Unit to manage it
Promote sustainable use of rural x State Law No. 6,132 November 28, 2011 approved, creating the Rural
landscapes                           Environmental Cadastre
Component B: Improve Access to and Quality of Education
Subcomponent B1. Improve Access to Basic Education
Increase access to secondary     x Decree No. 14,628 of October 31, 2011 enacted, creating the program to
education programs                   introduce technology and distance-learning strategies in the provision of
                                     secondary education
Subcomponent B2. Improve Management and Learning Outcomes of Public Schools
Improve quality of basic         x Decree No. 14,627 of October 31, 2011 enacted, establishing
education in the State              remedial/accelerated learning programs to decrease age–grade distortion
                                    and improve flow and quality of basic education in state public schools
Strengthen school management         x Decrees No. 14,385 of January 13, 2011 and No. 14,607 of October 14,
and learning outcomes for public       2011 enacted, establishing the system of merit-based selection for regional
schools                                managers and school principals, respectively
Subcomponent B3. Strengthen the Participation of Vulnerable Youth in Public Policies and Programs
Promote policies for increased     x Complementary Law No. 162 of December 30, 2010 approved, creating the
social and economic inclusion of       State Coordination Agency for Youth
youth
Component C. Increase the State’s Public Management Efficiency
Strengthen the institutional       x Decree No. 14,637 of November 22, 2011 enacted, creating a results-based
framework for efficient public         management system and a GoP Steering Committee to monitor a portfolio
service delivery                       of priority projects linked to the 2012–2015 Strategic Multi-Year Plan


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
35.     The implementation of the DPL was affected by several important factors beyond the control of
the GoP and the Bank, many of which were identified as risks during preparation. The main key factors
that affected implementation include:
36.     Eurozone Crisis and Institutional Capacity. The overall amount of FPE resources available
for distribution to the states decreased during 2012, because of counter-cyclical policies adopted at the
national level. This short-term decline of FNPE resources affected the State’s ability to make all its
investments as planned, and also prevented the GoP from conducting a follow-up operation with the
World Bank as initially planned.

                                                           7
37.     During the DPL’s preparation, the Bank noted that the GoP lacked broader experience in
implementing a comprehensive set of multisectoral policies to guide development. In order to strengthen
the State’s institutional and implementation capacity, a series of technical discussions during preparation
and a solid background analysis for each sectoral intervention area were conducted to better understand
the development challenges and opportunities faced by the State. An economic and financial analysis
was also performed to assess the State’s debt and investment capacity.
38.      As disclosed in the Project Document, this DPL was designed to be the first operation of a
broader partnership with the GoP. This operation would be followed by a Sector-wide Approach
(SWAp) investment operation focused mainly on supporting the implementation of policy reforms. Both
parties agreed that the State would greatly benefit from the additional technical assistance. In fact, the
first identification mission for the SWAp took place even before the DPL operation was formally signed.
Thus, DPL supervision was conducted in tandem with SWAp preparation missions. As a result, the GoP
focused on speeding up the SWAp preparation process in order to have the support to implement the
new policies most effectively.
39.    During the fourth quarter of 2012, however, the Eurozone crisis slowed down Brazil’s economy
and led the Government of Brazil to adopt a series of measures including temporarily decreasing or
eliminating several taxes, such as the Tax on Industrialized Products (Imposto sobre Produtos
Industrializados, IPI), to stimulate consumption. The IPI is one of the FPE’s main sources of funding.
This impacted the State of Piauí because the FPE is still one of the State’s main sources of revenue.
Although Piauí’s macroeconomic activity remained solid, its ability to contract a new loan was affected.
Thus, the GoP suspended the preparation of the SWAp and also had fewer resources than planned to
implement the new policies, especially those that created new programs (Piauí Digital, PROGERE and
CAR).
40.      Land Regularization. A Piauí state judge mainly covering the Cerrado region of Piauí issued an
injunction in September 2012 that temporarily suspended the process of identifying public land. This is
the first step in the land tenure regularization process. The legal issue was resolved in favor of the new
policy in April 2013. Therefore, while the State continued to receive requests for land regularization as
defined by the new law, during seven key months the actual processing of land tenure regularization was
halted in areas not yet legally recognized as public land. This issue was not foreseen as a risk during
preparation, because similar laws in other states had already successfully overcome the same legal
challenge. The policy stands as supported by the DPL; the impacto of this legal action is the slower than
expected implementation.
41.      Environmental Management. A major policy change regarding the National Rural
Environmental Cadastre (Cadastro Ambiental Rural, CAR) took place during the project
implementation period when Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff enacted a revised National Forest Code
in October 2012. Many aspects of the national law were similar to the state law supported by the DPL,
including mandatory registration under the CAR, linking credit to environmental compliance. One of the
requirements was to present a plan to restore illegally deforested areas in order to have the fines
suspended. On the other hand, the national law also has few parameters that are different from the state
law, especially with regard to the size of small farmers’ holdings. According to both laws (federal and
state), the State must proactively and with its own financial resources carry out the CAR for small
farmers. However, the legal definition of “small farmers” for the purposes of the CAR is different in
each law, hence the state and national laws need to be harmonized before this aspect of the CAR law
(regularization of small farmers) can be fully implemented.


                                                    8
42.    This issue was not identified during project preparation because at that time the topics under
discussion during the drafting of the revised National Forest Code did not include the definition of
“small farmers.” Furthermore, during the drafting of the State’s CAR law, the World Bank promoted a
meeting between state and national officials responsible for the CAR, to verify that the State’s draft
CAR law (to be supported later by the DPL) was in line with what was being proposed under the new
national law. At that time, the issue of small farmers was not identified as a topic that required
adjustment.
43.    The Bank identified this unexpected constraint during supervision and worked with the State
Secretariat of Environment and Water Resources (Secretaria do Meio Ambiente e Recursos Hídricos do
Estado do Piauí, SEMAR) to overcome it. (See 5.1 for more details.)
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
44.    M&E design. Performance indicators and end-targets were defined jointly by the GoP and the
World Bank. These represented adequate and appropriate measurements of the impact of all supported
prior actions in the selected policy areas within the Loan’s one-year time frame. The monitoring of
actions supported by the Piauí Green Growth and Inclusion Development Policy Loan was conducted
through the Strategic Actions Monitoring System (Sistema de Monitoramento e Acompanhamento de
Ações Estratégicas, SIMO). This system is a result of one of the policies supported by the DPL and the
evolution of the monitoring model adopted by the Government of Piauí since 2010.
45.    M&E Implementation. Because already-existing monitoring tools were used, baseline data
were readily available. This also allowed indicator data to be collected in a timely manner.
46.     M&E Utilization. Coordinated by the State Secretariat of Planning (Secretaria do Planejamento
do Estado do Piauí, SEPLAN), the SIMO monitors actions, projects and programs in the Government’s
various agencies. It identifies implementation delays and bottlenecks, and proposes actions to correct the
distortions found during the implementation of the programs and projects. All the projects under the
2012–2015 Multi-Year Strategic Plan (Plano Plurianual, PPA) are monitored by the SIMO. Moreover,
the State Governor and the managers using the information provided by the SIMO monitor the
implementation of all government programs, projects and activities through weekly meetings with
specific groups and areas.
47.    In addition to the SIMO, the Secretariats and other state agencies have systems in place to
monitor and evaluate their programs in order to address the sectors’ specific requirements and to allow
for timely corrections. In the education sector, the monitoring and evaluation of State Secretariat of
Education and Culture (Secretaria da Educação e Cultura do Piauí, SEDUC) policies are conducted
through the Airton Senna Institute Information System (Sistema Instituto Ayrton Senna de Informação,
SIASI) and the Piauí Educational Management System (Sistema de Gestão Educacional do Piauí,
sisgEpi). These systems provide information on the programs and activities executed by SEDUC that are
consolidated in the SIMO.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

48.    The short-term budget constraint caused by the smaller FPE allocation has been resolved. Thus,
during the second quarter of 2013 the Government of Piauí has begun discussions with the World Bank
regarding two operations: a SWAp (or P4R) and a new DPL operation.



                                                    9
49.     The initial discussions indicate that the SWAp/P4R would support the strengthening of technical
assistance for the areas covered by this first DPL as well as the health sector. The new DPL would focus
on further deepening the reforms supported to date in order to promote green growth with social
inclusion.
50.     Thus, like the first DPL, these new operations would also have a positive impact and would
contribute to improving important socioeconomic indicators, such as educational achievement,
employment, income distribution, as well as the provision and quality of health services that have been
resistant to change among the most disadvantaged groups of the population.
51.     The relevance of this first DPL and the expected new follow-on operations should continue to
assist Piauí in improving its effectiveness and efficiency in delivering public services such as education,
sustainable agricultural production and natural resources management, and in improving its capacity to
manage public investment.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

52.      The objectives of this DPL were very much in line with the current CPS and the GoP’s stated
priorities. The objectives were also consistent with the 2012–2015 Brazil CPS, which includes focusing
on the country’s pending environmental and poverty reduction challenges, improving the efficiency of
public spending, and increasing the coverage and quality of public services. The objectives of the DPL
were also closely aligned with the GoP’s stated priorities of promoting green growth in rural areas,
expanding access to education and improving its quality, and increasing public management efficiency.
53.    The policy areas supported by the DPL helped to sustain the beginning of the implementation of
the GoP’s 2012–2015 Multi-Year Strategic Plan, which reflects the developmental priorities of the
national PPA.
54.    The GoP made various efforts to implement the policies supported by this DPL, despite
problems beyond its control during the lifetime of the project (as described in section 2.2).

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

55.    The GoP achieved this DPL’s PDO of developing a solid policy reform to promote green growth
and inclusion. The GoP’s efforts fully achieved or exceeded 8 of 10 outcome indicators. The two areas
(Piauí Digital and CAR) that fell short of expected targets nonetheless improved; the GoP is addressing
the challenges faced by these programs (more details below) and they should continue to improve and
are very likely to achieve their targets in the near future. This indicates that commitment to the reform
program is strong and sustained, and is already generating important results.
   a)   Promote Green Growth in Rural Areas:
56.     This policy area had four desired outcomes. Three of them exceeded or fully achieved the target;
one target was not achieved. The details of each policy and outcome are presented below:
57.    Regularize land tenure for small family farmers and larger producers, with special focus
on the Cerrado. As a prior action, the State Legislative Assembly approved State Law No. 6,127 of
November 21, 2011. This law authorizes land grants to family farmers and land sales to producers
occupying and working the land for at least five years. This addresses the outstanding land tenure issues

                                                    10
for small-scale family farmers currently cultivating terras devolutas 3 throughout the State and for
informal agribusiness operators, especially those concentrated in the Cerrado region. This new law
includes specific measures to ensure environmental protection and social protection for vulnerable
groups.

58.     This policy action had two desired outcomes. The first was a 100 percent increase in the number
of applications for rural land tenure regularization submitted to INTERPI, considering a baseline of 826
applications in 2010. By June 2103, INTERPI had received 3,247 applications, thus exceeding the
original target by nearly 400 percent. This is remarkable considering that the new 2011 policy
established a higher price for the land (closer to market value) and required more evidence of
environmental compliance (CAR) than that required by the 2010 bill.

59.     Although the actual issuance of land titles to medium- and large-scale farmers was affected by
the temporarily injunction (see item 2.2 for details), INTERPI worked firmly to promote the land
regularization of small farmers living on recognized public lands. As of June 2013, INTERPI had
approved and handed over 1,300 land titles to small farmers, while another 1,200 titles have been
approved and should be handed over during the coming months. The land titles are in the name of both
spouses in order to ensure gender balance and security for women. The second desired outcome was a
15-percent increase in the number of eligible Common PRONAF (excluding PRONAF A and B) credit
applications received, considering a baseline of 1,177 applications. As of June 2103, the Banco do
Nordeste4 had received 1,530 credit applications; these represent a 30 percent increase, far exceeding the
original target.

60.     Increase employment and income in family farming: productive inclusion. As a prior action,
the State Legislative Assembly approved Complementary Law No. 162 of December 30, 2010 . This law
created the Directorate of Rural Poverty Alleviation under the State Secretariat of Rural Development
(Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Rural, SDR). Decree No. 14,626 of October 31, 2011, which was
enacted by the State Governor, created the State Program for the Elimination of Rural Poverty
(Programa Estadual de Geração de Emprego e Renda no Meio Rural, PROGERE) and the
organizational structure to manage it. The aim of PROGERE is to promote investments aimed at
generating employment and income in family farming through the design and implementation of up to
800 project interventions in the areas of water supply, agribusiness and environmental protection.

61.     The desired outcome was to have PROGERE operating in 112 municipalities. As of June 2013,
the target had been fully achieved. PROGERE is operating in over 150 municipalities and already
supporting nearly 5,000 family farmers, as illustrated in Table 2.




3
    Vacant lands, presumed to be public but not registered yet as such.
4
    Banco do Nordeste is the main financial institution operating PRONAF in Piauí.

                                                                    11
                  Table 2. PROGERE’s Investment Actions Implemented in 2012 and 2013
Investment Actions                               Number of kits     Assisted municipalities   Number of beneficiaries
Irrigation kits                                       1,000                   112                      1,000
Distributed seedlings                                300,000                   24                       735
Apiculture kits (hives, tools, vehicles)              3,010                    47                      1,814
Pisciculture kits (tanks, fishing nets, boats,          10                     10                       250
fish feed, tools)
Cashew farming kits (tractors and inputs)               10                     10                      1,200
Total                                                                         203*                     4,999
*Actions are repeated in some municipalities.

62.      Since the State’s institutionalization of the PROGERE Program in late 2011, SDR initially
structured the program through background studies on productive chains in order to identify and map
territorial and local business opportunities. Furthermore, SDR used the existing network of 2,500
organized community associations, registered in 223 municipal councils that were established during the
Rural Poverty Reduction Project (P050881), to begin implementing investments in four key selected
productive chains for the State: (i) cashew farming, (ii) apiculture, (iii) pisciculture, and (iv) irrigated
agriculture. To increase the productivity of family farmers, PROGERE distributed input kits to selected
families. It is worth mentioning that the selection process for the organizations is based on criteria of
priority territorial areas, availability of water resources, and level of organization.
63.     Sustainable use of rural landscapes through the adoption of environmental monitoring and
enforcement. As a prior action, Law No. 6,132 of November 28, 2011, which was approved by the
State Legislative Assembly, created the Program for Environmental Regularization of Rural Properties
for the State of Piauí. Registration of a holding in the CAR occurs at the initiative of the landholder.
This state law stipulates a three-year period for landholders to do so. The landholder must provide
information about: (i) the exact georeferenced boundaries of the holding, the location of remaining
native plant cover, the location of the legal reserve, and the actual location of permanent preservation
areas; and (ii) his or her agreement and commitment to keep the land in compliance with environmental
and forest law or to take actions to bring it into compliance (environmental regularization), as the case
may be. To this effect, the landholder signs Terms of Commitment and Adherence (Termo de
Compromisso e Adesão, TCA) and submits, where applicable, a Plan for Rehabilitation of Degraded
Areas (Plano de Recuperação de Área Degradada, PRAD).
64.     The desired outcome was to have 130,000 hectares in the Cerrado area under the CAR. The
target date was June 2013. The target for this policy was not achieved due in great part to the enactment
of the new National Forest Code in October 2012, which includes specific rules regarding the CAR,
among other aspects (see section 2.2). Although these changes strengthen environmental management in
the long term, they affected implementation of the CAR in Piauí in the short term. SEMAR is now
working on harmonizing the State’s CAR rules with national rules.
65.     On January 2013, SEMAR signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of
Environment for the specific purpose of harmonizing its CAR policy and promoting the policy’s
implementation in Piauí. As part of this partnership, the Ministry of Environment will make available to
SEMAR satellite images at the scale and precision necessary for the CAR. It also made available the
digital CAR registration model, which is now being tested in Piauí.

                                                               12
66.    Although the CAR has not yet been implemented in Piauí, SEMAR, with technical support from
the Bank (supervision of this DPL and preparation of the P143362 grant), has initiated the structuring
needed to implement the CAR through the following key actions:
       (i)     Creation of instruments for the regulation of the state law;
       (ii)    Development and preparation of technical tools:
                 a. Definition of a methodology for CAR regulation;
                 b. Definition of a methodology for the georeferencing of rural properties;
                 c. Preparation of an environmental regulation manual;
                 d. Definition of criteria for the rehabilitation of degraded areas;
                 e. Obtainment and updating of high-resolution satellite images for registration and
                     monitoring;
                 f. Development of an information system to be integrated with existing state
                     databases;
       (iii)   Mobilization of stakeholders, including workshops about the CAR with rural producers
               and newly elected majors; and
       (iv)    Coordination of actions among different institutions involved in the implementation of
               the CAR.
67.      The short-term budget problems faced by the GoP during 2012 did not directly impact the
implementation of the CAR in Piauí due to the policy harmonization issue explained above. Because this
issue is being resolved and the GoP has overcome the short-term budget constraint (see details in section
2.2), it is expected that SEMAR will receive the resources originally planned for upgrading the facilities
and staffing to implement this program in the State. This is also an area under discussion for the follow-
on SWAp.
   b) Improve Access to and Quality of Education:
68.     This policy area had five desired outcomes. Four of them exceeded or fully achieved the target;
one target was not achieved. The details of each policy and outcome are presented below:
69.     Increase access to secondary education programs. As a prior action, the State Governor
enacted Decree No. 14,628 of October 31, 2011. This decree established the Piauí Digital Program and
introduced educational multimedia tools in schools. To increase the availability of academic and
vocational–technical secondary education, mainly in small municipalities and remote areas, the Piauí
Digital Program is aimed at establishing a digital link among the municipalities.
70.    The desired outcome was a 20 percent increase in the number of secondary education
enrollments through the use of the Piauí Digital Program and other technologies. This target was not
achieved; enrollment increased by only about 5 percent.
71.     This policy action was affected in part by the short-term budget problem faced by the GoP in
2012 (see details in section 2.2). This achievement of the expected outcome relied strongly on the
implementation of the Piauí Digital Program, which was created to introduce educational multimedia
tools in schools. The first phase was planned to link 43 municipalities. This program would support the
provision of distance-learning strategies in school settings and thus improve enrollment in secondary
education, including the provision of vocational–technical courses for students in municipalities
connected to the system.
72.     The program was implemented in 300 classrooms but with several problems and delays that
affected the program’s effectiveness and the number of students enrolled. These problems included: (a)

                                                   13
low quality of the connections due to lack of adequate infrastructure investments in energy to support
the digital link requirements; and (b) lack of equipment to improve the quality of connections. Financial
resources for additional equipment to resolve connection problems were not available in the education
budget. Equipment installation and classroom modifications were only completed by August 2012. At
that time many students were already attending other schools or had given up the opportunity to enter
the education system.
73.    Another explanation given by SEDUC was the low acceptance of the new technology by the
education community, including students and parents. This may be due to the unreliable quality of the
connections (infrastructure issues not directly linked with the connections), which was not adequately
foreseen by the GoP’s information technology (IT) team. In addition, the Teachers’ Unions strikes were
responsible for delaying the beginning of the school year by more three months, also affecting the
secondary education school calendar supported by the Piauí Digital Program.
74.    On the other hand, one important outcome of this policy was the increase in vocational–technical
secondary education enrollments. Following Federal Government policies, as part of the overall
programs for developing technical skills and preparing youth to enter the workforce, the State also
invested in upgrading the network of state vocational–technical schools. The federal program allows for
the modernization and expansion of secondary schools that offer integrated vocational education
(academic and vocational courses), and supports one of the goals of the National Education
Development Plan (Plano de Desenvolvimento da Educação, PDE). These integrated vocational–
technical schools’ main objective is to integrate academic knowledge with practical training. Data from
SEDUC 5 indicated that many students shifted from the general education program to vocational–
technical programs in both state and federal technical schools. If this trend continues, it will be very
important for developing technical skills and preparing youth to enter the workforce.
75.     Improve the quality of fundamental education in the State. As a prior action, Decree No.
14,627 of October 31, 2011, which was enacted by the State Governor, defined the Accelerated
Learning Program for basic education grades 1 to 4. The goal is to improve the efficiency of the
education system through the use of methodologies for decreasing age–grade distortion as well as
repetition and dropout rates.
76.    The desired outcome was to decrease the percentage of children who are more than two years
behind grade level in state public school grades 1 to 4 by at least one percentage point annually, from
38.1 in 2010. As of June 2013, the target was achieved with a decrease to 36 percent in the number of
children with over two years of age–grade distortion in state public school grades 1 to 4.
77.     During the preparation of the DPL, the available EducaCenso (National Information System)
was for the overall fundamental education cycle (38.1 percent). Therefore, this was the source used to
monitor this outcome. However, once data from the INEP Census on the rate of age–grade distortion in
grades 1 to 4 became available, they showed an even better result. The age–grade distortion rate for the
earlier years of fundamental education (grades 1 to 4) decreased from 34 percent in 2010 to 31.6 percent
in 2012 (Table 3).




5
    INEP data = Census 2012.

                                                   14
                           Table 3. Age–Grade Distortion Rates, 2010–2012
                     Year            Age–grade distortion (%)           Source
                     2010                       34                       INEP
                     2011                      33.2                      INEP
                     2012                      31.6                      INEP
                     Reduction from 2010 to 2012: 2.4%


78.     Strengthen school management and learning outcomes for public schools. As prior actions,
the State Governor enacted Decree No. 14,385 of January 13, 2011, creating a formal process for the
selection of regional managers, and Decree No. 14,607 of October 14, 2011 for the selection of school
principals. Decree No. 14,385 defines a merit-based selection process. Each regional manager candidate
must present a work plan for the next three years, including activities and targets. A professional
selection committee reviews the applications and conducts the interviews. Teachers need to meet a set of
criteria to apply for the position. Meanwhile, as defined by Decree No. 14,607, school principals are
elected by the school community, which is represented by teachers, students and parents in a
participatory process that increases the interaction between the school and the community.
79.     This policy action had two desired outcomes. The first was that all the regional managers were
selected according to the new selection process. The target was fully achieved with all 21 Regional
Education Managers selected based on the requirements of Decree No. 14,385 and the subsequent
portarias. In 2012, following the guidelines of the same Decree, the managers were evaluated and their
terms were extended accordingly.
80.     The second desired outcome was that at least 80 percent of school principals were selected in
accordance with Decree No. 14,607. The target was fully achieved: 86 percent of school principals were
selected using the new process. Three hundred thirty-eight school principals were selected through this
process in 2012. According to the Decree, this process should be applied only to schools with over 200
students (Article 2). At the time of the selection process in 2012, 395 schools met this condition.
81.     The GoP is firmly committed to ensuring the transparent selection process of school principals
and took action to expand this process to all other schools. During the project implementation period, the
GoP created a specific merit-based system, as established under Edital 002/2012 of January 24, 2012,
for those small schools that, because of their characteristics, were not covered by Decree 14,385 which
was supported by the DPL. This Edital stipulated that candidate should submit: (i) a platform for school
development, and (ii) his or her curriculum vitae to be analyzed and graded.
82.     Considering both systems, a total of 548 school principals out the total of 657 schools were
selected by merit (83 percent of all schools). In addition, state M&E systems were established to monitor
the schools, assess students’ performance, and support the implementation of the qualit y improvement
policies adopted by the Government.
83.     Promote policies for increased social and economic inclusion of youth. As a prior action,
Complementary Law No. 162 of December 30, 2010, which was enacted by the State Governor, created
the State Coordination Agency for Youth (Coordenadoria da Juventude, COJUV). This agency is
responsible for the implementation of the State Plan for Youth Empowerment (Law No. 5,093 of 2009),
which is the direct result of the First State Youth Conference held in 2009. This plan establishes a set of
targets and programs for a 10-year period; these are evaluated every three years when a new State
Conference is held. Therefore, the first evaluation report would only become available in early 2014,
beyond the period covered by this ICR.

                                                     15
84.    The desired outcome was a 50 percent increase in the number of Municipal Youth Councils
created by legal documentation. The result significantly exceeded the target: the number of Councils
increased from only 8 in 2010 to 31 as of June 2013.
85.     With the creation of new Municipal Youth Councils, the State of Piauí is beginning to place
greater attention on youth policies. COJUV is playing an important role in coordinating and channeling
public policies to support youth and increasing their participation in the implementation of public
policies. It developed a methodology to establish Municipal Youth Councils and a set of procedures to
support Youth Council activities in each municipality. COJUV has been working directly with the
municipalities and jointly defining priority actions for youth in each municipality. Furthermore, COJUV
continues its efforts to motivate and support the establishment of Youth Councils in new municipalities.
Through the Youth Councils, COJUV tries to identify in loco the actual needs that directly and
indirectly affect youth in several areas, mainly health, sports, education, leisure, culture,
entrepreneurship, accessibility for the disabled population, popular participation, employment and
income generation, and social skills. The Youth Councils are considered an important tool in the
implementation of policies in the area and also in combating violence and increasing social and
economic inclusion. The GoP recognizes the significant role of youth in the State’s development and
intends to support this model for reaching out to this population to discuss and implement public policies
and activities not only for youth but for other segments of the society as well.
      c)    Strengthen the institutional framework for efficient public service delivery:
86.    This policy area’s one desired outcome was fully achieved The details of the supported policy
and outcome are presented below:
87.     As a prior action, Decree No. 14,637 of November 22, 2011, which was enacted by the State
Governor, created the Government Results-Based and Financial Management Steering Committee to
monitor a portfolio of priority projects linked to the 2012–2015 Strategic Multi-Year Plan. The Decree is
essential to improve and institutionalize the management process outlined above. The Steering
Committee is the natural evolution of the current Financial Management Committee, but it is
empowered by specific roles and responsibilities to develop and implement a results-based management
system as defined in the Decree. These are key measures as the GoP concludes the participatory
planning of its 2012–2015 Strategic Multi-Year Plan.
88.     The desired outcome was to have 60 percent of state projects or programs included in the
Results-based Management System. This target was fully achieved. Over 60 percent of the State’s
projects and programs are now closely supervised through the enhanced monitoring system (SIMO).
89.      In early 2011, the GoP adopted mechanisms to regularly monitor the State’s investments and
execution, progressively shifting to a results-oriented focus. As a first step, the different Secretariats
                                                                                              6
were clustered in areas according to their potential synergies: (i) social dimension I, (ii) social
                7
dimension II, (iii) law enforcement and justice, (iv) infrastructure and environment, (v) economic
development and public companies, and (vi) institutional dimension. Each area meets with the Governor
at least once a month to present progress made toward achieving the agreed targets, as well as challenges
and demands that can be met by the other participating agencies. Moreover, SEPLAN plays a central
role in managing the results-based system and providing real-time reports to the Governor.


6
    Composed of programs related to basic education, higher education, culture and sports.
7
    Composed of programs related to health, social assistance and inclusion.

                                                                      16
90.     During DPL preparation, SEPLAN improved the existing monitoring system by creating the
SIMO; most of the Government’s investment projects and programs migrated to this system. Another
important enhancement to the SIMO was the integration of SEPLAN and State Secretariat of Finance
(Secretaria da Fazenda, SEFAZ) databases. This enabled the joint monitoring of financial and physical
processes of the investments. SEFAZ also invested in updating existing financial control, budgeting and
reporting software.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)

       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

91.     The project achieved its PDO. Most of its results indicators (eight out of ten) were not only
achieved but in three cases exceeded their target values. Two indicators (Piauí Digital and CAR) fell
short of their expected targets, but the policy areas showed progress. The low performance in both cases
was in great part caused by actions taken at the national level that were beyond the control of the GoP
but which impacted the state. The design of the DPL was highly relevant to Brazil, the State of Piauí,
and the CPS. The DPL achieved its overall purpose by assuring that the GoP could sustain all the
reforms and most of the plans laid out in the 2012–2015 Strategic Multi-Year Plan, even in a critical
financing situation disrupted by the decrease in federal transfers to the State due to the economic crisis.
Based on these factors, the overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

92.     The specific policy reforms supported by this DPL were expected to have significant and
positive poverty alleviation and social development impacts on the State of Piauí because they address
key constraints to human development, economic growth, public governance and transparency. During
preparation, the World Bank team ensured that the land regularization policy and the associated State
Law No. 6,127 of November 21, 2011 did not impose unrealistic and costly application requirements on
family farmers while also creating a route through which they (unlike large-scale farmers) could obtain
the land free of charge through grants.
93.     The GoP demonstrated its commitment by prioritizing the land regulation process of small
farmers and the implementation of PROGERE despite the financial challenges encountered during
project implementation. Moreover, State Law No. 6,127 of November 21, 2011 deemed ineligible for
regularization quilombola lands and lands occupied by traditional populations as a means of protecting
these lands of vulnerable groups from being co-opted by large-scale agriculture. The combination of
productive inclusion and environmental registry of rural properties, and secure land tenure rights
policies, would likely contribute to poverty reduction insofar as access to lines of credit and financing as
well as to technical assistance by small landholders has increased.
94.    The DPL operation also addressed gender inequalities within the context of the policies it
supported. The land regularization policy supported by this operation should contribute toward reducing

                                                    17
gender inequalities which, in rural areas, are related to the neglect of women’s land rights. This was
achieved by stipulating that land titles must be issued in the name of both spouses. In the case of female
farmers without a spouse, land titles were issued solely in the women’s names.
95.     In education, SEDUC’s actions were aimed at the most vulnerable populations who live in rural
and marginal urban areas. Quilombolas, disabled students, and women all benefitted from the specific
programs to improve student performance in those segments, as in the accelerated education program
and the vocational–technical programs in fundamental education. In addition, by addressing the key
challenges of improving school management and decreasing illiteracy, repetition and dropout rates, the
policies supported by this operation were expected to overcome the main constraints faced by the State’s
education system.


(b) Institutional Change/ Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

96.     The policy actions supported by the DPL contributed to improvements in the various areas and
the sustainability and efficiency of resource use, improvements in data collection, and consolidation of a
“culture” of monitoring and evaluation of policies and programs.
97.     Another important positive externality of the DPL was the strengthening of inter-institutional
integration among different State Government agencies. In order to achieve the complex development
objectives proposed in the operation, the GoP had to promote greater dialogue among the Secretariats.
For instance, during project preparation, SDR, SEMAR and INTERPI organized regular meetings to
identify potential synergies in designing the policies and provide innovative solutions to the target
population. The policies integrated actions to register the CAR and regularize land tenure for
PROGERE’s beneficiaries.
98.    After the DPL, this inter-institutional interaction was internalized during the monthly monitoring
meetings with the Governor, at which the Secretariats and agencies have the opportunity to strengthen
partnerships (a) through a more systematic transmission of lessons and experiences, (b) by learning
about the current activities performed by each institution (avoiding overlapping of activities), and (c) by
refocusing attention to support the fine-tuning of state policy platforms.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

99.    There were no unintended outcomes and impacts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

100.   Not applicable.




                                                    18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
       Rating: Moderate

101. The risk to project outcomes is deemed Moderate. This is based on the financial impact caused
by the decrease in FPE resources available to the State of Piauí in 2012. This affected the State’s
investment capacity to strengthen some state agencies to the level necessary to implement newly created
programs (e.g., INTERPI, Piauí Digital, CAR). Although this was not a significant problem for the
initial phase of the programs as assessed in this ICR, long-term sustainability will require additional
technical assistance and financial resources. The follow-on SWAp and DPL operations under discussion
between the GoP and the World Bank should assess alternatives to mitigate these risks.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
        Rating: Satisfactory

102. The Bank and the GoP collaborated closely during the DPL’s identification and preparation
stages to promote a better quality of policies implemented under this operation. The Bank introduced
inclusive green growth approaches to tailor the State’s vision of agricultural development in order to
promote higher economic and social growth with greener outcomes. A good indication of this intensive
policy dialogue between the GoP and Bank is that 9 of the 11 prior actions supported by this DPL were
enacted in 2011 after project preparation had begun.
103. The Bank team worked with the GoP to select the most appropriate Bank lending instrument for
the situation. The initial request by the GoP, supported by the National Treasury, was a two-tranche
DPL operation of US$550 million. The Bank team felt this was not the best option for the State, due to
the GoP’s limited experience in implementing holistic, multisectoral programs, the expected need to
provide technical assistance to a poor state, and the fact that the Bank relationship with the State was
based only on the Rural Poverty Reduction Program (P050881), which had closed in early 2010.
104. The Bank team responded to the client’s needs by proposing two sequential operations that
would total the initial amount requested by GoP. It recommended a single-tranche DPL to be followed
by a SWAp to provide further support for the implementation of the policies and programs covered by
the DPL. This DPL instrument provided adequate and timely response to the GoP’s changing
development needs. The preparation of the SWAp began as soon as the policies were enacted. Although
SWAp project preparation had to be temporarily suspended, it has now resumed and should provide the
State with the necessary support to continue improving the policies supported by this DPL.
105. The World Bank task team worked very closely with the GoP in designing the DPL and made
sure to properly integrate the GoP reform program in the operation as well as the World Bank’s
requirements for this type of operation. The World Bank team helped assess the policy actions in terms
of national and international best practices. The sector diagnostics and the preparation of this operation
were also important to assist the GoP in developing and implementing a complex policy reform.


                                                      19
106. Negotiations with the Borrower were conducted smoothly and quickly. Performance indicators
and end-targets were defined jointly by the GoP and the World Bank team, and represented adequate
and appropriate measures of the impact of each of the supported actions within the Loan’s one-year
implementation time frame. Pre-appraisal missions were carried out in September and October 2011.
These comprehensive missions, which involved World Bank and Borrower staff with high-level
technical skills, resulted in detailed and accurate sector background information and indicator
monitoring data.
107. In addition, during the project preparation phase, the Bank undertook a poverty and social impact
analysis to explore the disaggregated social impacts on different stakeholder groups. It was based on
primary and secondary sources: social and economic analyses using demographic and census data,
ethnographic studies, focus group meetings, and individual interviews with key stakeholders. The
analysis focused on policies to promote green growth in rural areas and improve access to and quality of
education, which were being proposed for support by the operation.
108. The operation’s technical design was calibrated to the lessons from previous, similar operations,
and to reasonable targets in relation to the State’s institutional capacity and experience. The areas of
analytical foundations included:
109. Agriculture and Rural Development: The Implementation Completion and Results Report: Piauí,
Rural Poverty Reduction Project, prepared by the World Bank, summarizes the implementation progress
and results achieved by the project. This analysis was used in the design of the PROGERE program,
which was supported by this proposed DPL.
110. Land Regularization: Experience with land tenure regularization has been drawn from a series of
analytical pieces undertaken by the Bank in recent years, culminating in its most recent report:
Legalizing Brazil. This report emphasizes the progressive strides made in the institutional setup for land
regularization in Brazil while pointing to the need to increase the adaptation of federal laws at state
level. This analysis was essential to guide the preparation of the land regularization law that was
supported by this proposed DPL, moving the policy from land use rights to land titles and including
environmental requirements as part of the regularization process.
111. Environment: The Development Company of the São Francisco and Paraíba Valleys (Companhia
de Desenvolvimento dos Vales do São Francisco e do Paraíba, CODEVASF), with support from
PROAGUA/Semi-Árido 8 , prepared a comprehensive study, “Water Resources Master Plan for the
Parnaíba River Basin.” The study covered all but one of the 224 municipalities in Piauí (the municipality
not covered in the study is located on Piauí’s small coast). It provided a basis for Environmental
Economic Zoning and land-based policies. It also confirmed the importance of the Cerrado for the
State’s rural development and the different land prices based on potential productivity.
112. Deforestation and CAR: Over the past 15 years, the World Bank carried out several analytical
studies focused on causes of deforestation in Brazil’s rainforests. Many of the lessons and analyses
related to government policies and farmers’ behavior are applicable to other Brazilian biomes. In
addition, the 2011 evaluation of the Plan to Prevent and Combat Deforestation in the Amazon concluded
that the establishment of the Rural Environmental Cadastre (CAR), in combination with National
Monetary Council Resolution 3545, was important for the sharp decrease in Amazon deforestation rates


8
 Federal Water Resources Management Project (P038895) which aimed at promoting rational and sustainable use and participatory
management of water resources in Brazil in general, and in the Northeast in particular.

                                                                20
in the past few years. Consequently, the Federal Plan to Prevent and Combat Deforestation in the
Cerrado, which was launched in 2011, uses the same approach and was applied in Piauí. This analysis
was essential to guide the preparation of the State Rural Environmental Cadastre law, which was
supported by this proposed DPL.
113. Education: Experience has been drawn from several studies and programs developed by other
Brazilian states, particularly in Northeastern states that have similar problems. Another study recently
finalized by the Bank, “Achieving World-Class Education in Brazil: The Next Agenda,” shows the
major advances and pitfalls of Brazilian education in the last 15 years and outlines the next agenda for
improvements in education at different levels. In addition, the Bank study, “Knowledge, Innovation for
Competiveness in Brazil,” provides a cross-sectoral analysis of Brazil’s capacity to produce knowledge
and innovation, and also points out the need to re-evaluate the Brazilian education system, its
information technology infrastructure, and its policy framework for encouraging innovation to ensure
that the country’s economy as a whole is growing fast enough to keep up with global competition while
also guaranteeing progress in its fight against poverty. The lessons from these and other studies listed in
the Project Document were essential to guide the preparation of the education policies supported by this
DPL.
114. Public Management and Fiscal Sustainability: The Piauí State Economic Memorandum,
“Managing a Natural Inheritance,” prepared by the World Bank, focused on identifying the main social
and economic issues in Piauí. It also recommends strategies and actions to the State Government aimed
at raising the profile of natural resource management, prioritizing infrastructure and human capital
investments, and reengineering public spending. The ESW report, “Brazil: Improving Fiscal Conditions
for Growth,” addresses important policy issues relating to budget rigidity and expenditure management
that contributed to the assessment of fiscal and public sector management challenges faced by the GoP.
This analysis was essential to guide the preparation of the public management policy supported by this
proposed DPL.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)

       Rating: Satisfactory

115. This was a single-tranche loan for which all required policy actions were met by the Government
prior to negotiation. Therefore, greater emphasis was placed on preparation than on supervision.
Although the supervision of single-tranche DPLs is challenging, since all actions have already been met
before effectiveness and there are no direct investments to be monitored, the World Bank team
conducted five missions to the State of Piauí (covering supervision and completion stages). The Bank’s
management assigned the preparation of the SWAp to the same basic task team that prepared the DPL.
This enabled the Bank and GoP teams to carry out SWAp preparation missions combined with DPL
supervision missions. Thus, the Bank team was able to maintain ongoing dialogue with the appropriate
counterparts in SEPLAN, SEDUC, COJUV, SEMAR, PRONAF and PROGERE.
116. This close partnership enabled the Bank team to identify early on the impact of the revised Forest
Code on the State’s CAR law and propose appropriate mitigation measures. The Bank promoted
dialogue between state and federal agencies responsible for the CAR. This dialogue led to the
establishment of a bilateral cooperation agreement. This collaboration is progressing very well: the
Ministry of Environment has already transferred to SEMAR all satellite images necessary for the

                                                    21
operationalization of the CAR, as well as the basic digital registration systems, which are undergoing
plot tests. The Bank team also identified trust fund resources that could be used to implement the CAR
in Piauí, negotiated with the donor, and initiated the preparation of a US$4.5 million grant with SEMAR
(P143362) to provide technical assistance for the CAR’s application in the Cerrado.
117. The team did not file ISRs during the project supervision missions because there was no actual
progress to report with regard to the targets. Any relevant information was covered in mission aide-
mémoires and notes. Thus, the only Implementation Status Report (ISR) in the system was filed soon
after project approval. As usual at that time, all ratings were considered Satisfactory. This is the reason
behind the apparent disconnect between the ISR and ICR.
118. Despite this shortcoming in filing a final ISR, the rating of the quality of supervision is
considered Satisfactory due to the quality and intensity of the dialogue and the actions taken to mitigate
the unexpected challenges observed with the CAR’s implementation.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory

119. Given the Satisfactory ratings for both quality at entry and supervision, the overall Bank
performance rating is Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

120. The State Government’s commitment and involvement in actively participating and carrying out
the policy reform led to positive implementation and achievement of outcomes. The Governor
personally led the most difficult policy dialogue within the State, thus enabling the approval of the set of
policies to promote green and inclusive growth supported by the DPL.
121. The Government as a whole was highly committed to the results-based management approach,
which was aligned with the Governor’s practice of regularly monitoring the progress of government
programs and investments.
122. Soon after the Loan was signed, the GoP made internal structural changes to manage lending
operations, creating the Superintendency for Financial and Technical Cooperation (Superintendência de
Cooperação Técnica–Financeira). This move was designed to consolidate all lending operations of
public and multilateral agencies in a single unit, thus ensuring synergies between different operations
regardless of the sources of funds and enabling better management and monitoring of such projects.
Therefore, responsibility for overall coordination of the implementation of the DPL was also transferred
from SEPLAN to a new management agency. Although this new institutional arrangement could work
for implementation or regular investment operations (with dedicated budget and work plans), the new
agency had far less power to push for the implementation of the policies support by the DPL than
SEPLAN had at the time of project negotiations. A mitigating factor was that all SEPLAN staff working
on the DPL, including the Secretary of Planning himself, moved to the new agency; this ensured
continuation of the dialogue with the Bank.



                                                    22
123. In great part because of the short-term financial problems faced by Piauí in 2012, due to policies
adopted at the national level (see section 2.2 for further details), training and capacity building were not
adequately provided to the agencies that had to implement new programs supported by the DPL.
Furthermore, no measures were foreseen to speed up the implementation of several activities and ensure
the achievement of important targets once the financial constraints were resolved. For example, the
selection process of hiring civil servants takes about six months, and the results of the selection are valid
for two years. Thus, the process of selecting additional staff for SEMAR and other agencies involved in
the DPL could have already taken place. Instead, the GoP only decided to begin these processes in mid-
2013.
124.   Thus, the performance of the implementing agencies was Moderately Satisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency’s or Agencies’ Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

125. The Secretariat of Planning of the State of Piauí (SEPLAN) did a good job in coordinating
institutional agencies and actions, and in monitoring and reporting progress for the proposed DPL.
Overall, the SEPLAN team was dedicated and closely monitored the operation’s preparation stages.
Soon after Board approval, the transfer of project implementation from SEPLAN to the newly created
Superintendency for Financial and Technical Cooperation impacted the ability to push for policy
implementation and prepare progress and completion reports that were compatible with Bank standards.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

126. Given the Moderately Satisfactory ratings for both government and implementing agency
performance quality at entry and supervision, the overall Borrower performance rating is Moderately
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of broad general application)

127.   The design of the proposed operation reflects several important lessons:

128. Client ownership and leadership: Strong client ownership and leadership of the reform
program were critical to responsiveness during DPL preparation and implementation. The Government
took a proactive role in defining the policy matrix with measures that had high impact and were feasible
within the time frame of the operation. Moreover, strong leadership at the highest levels of Government
(i.e., the direct involvement of the State Governor and Secretariats) during the operation’s identification,
preparation and implementation was important and constant.
129. Policy sustainability: One of the lessons with the most impact learned from planning and
implementing the DPL refers to the awareness developed in the Government of Piauí’s management
team to legally institutionalize the Government’s policies and actions in order to ensure the
sustainability and transparency of the actions covered by the policies. To ensure the achievement of
poverty-reduction objectives, there is a need to establish long-term policies that will not only depend on
one administration but could continue through legal support in subsequent administrations.


                                                     23
130. Inter-institutional coordination. The design and implementation of complex policy reforms
require strong inter-institutional leadership and coordination. The existence of a government agency
responsible for coordinating all the state agencies involved during the preparation and implementation of
the Loan is a key element for the quality of policy dialogue and the achievement of planned targets. This
assumption is supported by the proceedings during the transfer of coordination from SEPLAN to the
newly created Superintendency for Financial and Technical Cooperation, which slightly impacted the
implementation of the DPL during that period.
131. Monitoring and evaluation: Another lesson of this DPL refers to the Government’s
improvement of the practice of setting targets for each policy implemented. Although the GoP had
already been using this methodology since 2010, it stresses that the experience of the DPL contributed to
the improvement of this methodology, which was reinforced after the partnership with the World Bank.
132. Support for policy implementation. In cases where the Borrower is relatively weak in policy
implementation, the Bank should consider developing the investment operation in tandem with the DPL.
In this project, if the SWAp and DPL were prepared jointly instead of in sequence the outcomes from
policy implementation would have been even greater. This is a major challenge because these operations’
average pace of preparation is quite different. One alternative is to consider a small technical assistance
loan that can be prepared quickly and approved at the same time as the DPL. This would enable the
SWAp to be prepared adequately while already providing technical assistance to the client for the
policies agreed under the DPL.
133. Implementation of new programs. In cases where the prior actions supported by the DPL
include the creation of a new program, it might be necessary to also request a detailed analysis of the
budget for its implementation. This is not usually done because the budget and action plans are not
immediately available when a decree creating a program is enacted. In addition, budget and action plans
should not be included in the DPL, and Bank supervision should not verify actual financial
implementation. However, new programs such as Piauí Digital could have benefitted from a cost-benefit
analysis to strengthen their action plans. This issue could have been addressed if a small technical
assistance loan, which can be prepared quickly, was approved at the same time as the DPL.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

134. The Borrower’s letter of September 16, 2013 (Annex 5) expressed agreement with the Bank’s
assessment detailed in this ICR. The Borrower also recognized the support received from the World
Bank during preparation, supervision and closing of this project. The Borrower also reiterated that it
strengthening the partnership with the World Bank through the follow-on SWAp and DPL operations to
support further implementation of the policies addressed in this DPL and expand support to other areas.
(b) Cofinanciers
135. Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
136. Not applicable.




                                                   24
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                              Responsibility/
               Names                                    Title                    Unit
                                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Garo Batmanian                       TTL                                        LCSEN     Environment Specialist
Alberto Coelho Gomes Costa           Senior Social Development Specialist       LCSSO     Safeguards
Marcos Costa Holanda                 Consultant                                 LCSEN
Christoph Diewald                    Consultant                                 LCSEN     Agriculture
Mariana Margarita Montiel            Senior Counsel                             LEGLE     Legal
Barbara Cristina Noronha Farinelli   Operations Analyst                         LCSAR     Monitoring/Evaluation
Robin Michael Rajack                 Senior Land Administration Specialist      LCSAR     Land Administration
Sebastian Martin Scholz              Senior Environmental Economist             SDNVP     Environment
Maria Madalena R. dos Santos         Consultant–Senior Education Specialist     LCSPE     Education
Supervision
Garo Batmanian                       TTL                                       LCSEN      Environment Specialist
Alberto Coelho Gomes Costa           Senior Social Development Specialist      LCSSO      Safeguards
Marcos Costa Holanda                 Consultant                                LCSEN
Christoph Diewald                    Consultant                                LCSEN      Agriculture
Barbara Cristina Noronha Farinelli   Operations Analyst                        LCSAR      Monitoring/Evaluation
Robin Michael Rajack                 Senior Land Administration Specialist     LCSAR      Land Administration
Sebastian Martin Scholz              Senior Environmental Economist            SDNVP      Environment
Maria Madalena R. dos Santos         Consultant–Senior Education Specialist    LCSPE      Education



(b) Staff Time and Cost ( to be added by the QER)
                                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                   Stage                                                       US$ thousands (including travel
                                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                                                    and consultant costs)
Lending                                                   54.82                      303,686.43
                                     Total:
Supervision/ICR
                                     Total:                 6.16                        36,037.94




                                                          25
Annex 2. Piauí DPL Actions and Policy Development Matrix


Policy Area                    Policy Actions: Single-Tranche                          Outcome Indicators
                                 Prior Actions (Completed)                               by June 2013
Component A. Promote Green Inclusive Growth in Rural Areas
         Subcomponent A1. Improve Land Tenure Security
Regularize land   x State Law No. 6,127 of November 21, 2011
tenure for small      approved, authorizing land grants to family          x       100% increase in the number of
family farmers        farmers and land sales to larger-scale producers             applications for rural land tenure
and larger            occupying and working the land for at least 5                regularization submitted to
producers, with       years                                                        INTERPI
particular focus
on the Cerrado                                                             x       15% increase in the number of
                                                                                   eligible Common PRONAF
Regularize land      x Decree No. 14,625 of October 31, 2011 enacted,              (excluding PRONAF A and B)
tenure for             creating the Program for Land Regularization for            credit applications received
quilombola             Quilombola Communities
communities

         Subcomponent A2. Promote Sustainable Agriculture
Increase          x Complementary Law No.162 of December 30,               x       PROGERE operating in 112
employment and        2010 enacted, creating the Directorate of Rural              municipalities
income in family      Poverty Alleviation under the Secretariat of Rural
farming:              Development (SDR); and Decree No.14,626 of
productive            October 31, 2011 enacted, creating the State
inclusion             Program for the Elimination of Rural Poverty
                      (PROGERE) and the Program Unit to manage it
         Subcomponent A3. Ensure Environmental Sustainability
Promote            x State Law No. 6,132 of November 28, 2011                  x    130,000 ha of land registered in
sustainable use of    approved, creating the Rural Environmental                    the CAR in the Cerrado region
rural landscapes      Cadastre

Component B: Improve Access to and Quality of Education
Subcomponent B1. Improve Access to Basic Education
Increase access to x Decree No. 14,628 of October 31, 2011 enacted,        x 20% increase in the number of
secondary            creating the program to introduce technology and        secondary education enrollments
education            distance-learning strategies in the provision of        through the use of the Piauí
programs             secondary education                                     Digital Program and other
                                                                             technologies


Subcomponent B2. Improve Management and Learning Outcomes of Public Schools
Improve quality    x Decree No. 14,627 of October 31, 2011 enacted,     x Decrease, by at least 1 percentage
of basic education   establishing remedial/accelerated learning           point annually (from 38.1 in 2010
in the State         programs to decrease age–grade distortion and        to 36 by June 2013), in the
                     improve the flow and quality of basic education in   percentage of children more than
                     state public schools                                 two years behind grade level in
                                                                          grades 1 to 4 in state public
                                                                          schools




                                                          26
Strengthen school         x Decrees No. 14,385 of January 13, 2011 and No.              x Selection of all regional managers
management and              14,607 of October 14, 2011 enacted, establishing              through the new selection
learning                    the system of merit-based selection for regional              process, and at least 80% of
outcomes for                managers and school principals, respectively                  school principals selected
public schools                                                                            according to Decree 14,6079

Subcomponent B3. Strengthen the Participation of Vulnerable Youth in Public Policies and Programs
Promote policies   x Complementary Law No. 162 of December 30,             x 50% increase in number of
for increased         2010 approved, creating the State Coordination         Municipal Youth Councils
social and            Agency for Youth                                       created by portaria, from 8
economic                                                                     Municipal Councils in 2010
inclusion of youth
Component C. Increase the State’s Public Management Efficiency
Strengthen the     x Decree No. 14,637 of November 22, 2011                x 60% of state projects or programs
institutional         enacted, creating a results-based management           included in the results-based
framework for         system and a GoP Steering Committee to monitor         management system
efficient public      a portfolio of priority projects linked to the 2012–
service delivery      2015 Strategic Multi-Year Plan




9
    This includes 484 schools that have more than 200 students, plus secondary and vocational –technical schools.

                                                                     27
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results
          (if any)
Not applicable.




Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
          (if any)
Not applicable.




                                          28
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                        29
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                          30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



   1.   Program Document (PD). Report No. 66496-BR, February 1, 2012
   2.   Loan Agreement, Loan Number 8128-BR
   3.   Country Partnership Strategy Brazil 2012–2015, Report No. 63731-BR, September 21, 2011
   4.   Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR). Rural Poverty Reduction Project (P050881),
        Report No. ICR00001247, July 27, 2010
   5.   Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
   6.   Supervision Aide-Mémoires
   7.   Letter of Development Policy
   8.   Government of Piauí’s Sectoral Reports
   9.   Other preparation and supervision documents




                                                    31
                                                                                                                                                                                    44°                                                      43°                                                                 42°                                                           41°
                                                                                             BRAZIL
              PIAUÍ GREEN GROWTH AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT L A N T I C O C E A N
               INCLUSION DEVELOPMENT
                     POLICY LOAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Luiz Correia
                                                             REGIONAL OFFICES OF THE STATE TECHNICAL UNIT                                                                                                                                                                                                          Parnaíba




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3°
                                                                                                                                                                              3°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                   600                       AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Buriti dos Lopes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Bom Princípio
                                                             CLIMATIC ZONES:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 do Piauí
                                                                SEMI-ARID
                                                                REGIÃO DO SEMI-ARIDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Luzilándia                                                              Cocal
                                                                LOWER PARNAIBA RIVER VALLEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1200
                                                                REGIÃO DO MEDIO - BAIXO PARNAÍBA                                                                                                                                                                                                      Joaquim




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pires
                                                                SAVANNAH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0
                                                                REGIÃO DOS CERRADOS                                                                                                                                                                                                                             São Jose
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Matias Olímpio                     do Divino
                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a        Porto                           Esperantina                         Piracuruca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     b
                                                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   aí
                                                                                                                                                                              4°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N.S. dos                 Batalha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               rn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Remédies




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pa
                                                             STATE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Brasileira




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Miguel
                                                             STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                        Alves                                      Barras                                                                               1200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Domingos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Piripiri                                          Mourão
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lagoa                          Cabeceiras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pedro II                           10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Alegre                                                  Capitao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                do Piauí               de Campos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             União


              COLOMBIA
                                                R.B. de
                                              VENEZUELA
                                                               GUYANA

                                                                        SUR.
                                                                                 FRENCH
                                                                                 GUIANA
                                                                                   (Fr.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CEARÁ
                                                                                                          Atlan tic Ocean                                                                                                                                                  José de
                                                        RORAIMA                  AMAPÁ                                                                                                                                                                                     Freitas                       Campo                  Sigefredo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Maior                   Pacheco
                                                                                                                                  RIO                                                                                                                                      Altos                                                                                                                                              5°
                                                                                 PARÁ                                           GRANDE          5°
                                                  AMAZONAS                                            MARANHÃO        CEARÁ
                                                                                                                               DO NORTE                                                                                                                                                              Coivaras
                                                                                                                                PARAÍBA                                                                                                  TERESINA
                                                                                                            PIAUÍ
                                                                                                                            PERNAMBUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Castelo
                                   ACRE                                                                                         ALAGOAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Buriti
                                                   RONDÔNIA                                  TOCANTINS
                                                                                                                              SERGIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Alto Longá                                   do Piauí
               PERU
                                                                         MATO
                                                                        GROSSO
                                                                                                              BAHIA
                                                                                                                                                                    M A R A NH Ã O                                               1400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Demerval
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lobão
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      dos Montes

                                                                                 BRASÍLIA
                                                  BOLIVIA                                  GOIÁS                                                                                                                                                                                             Beneditinos                                         São Miguel
                                                                                                         MINAS                                                                                                                                                                                                              São João              do Tapuio
                                                                           MATO                          GERAIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Mons. Gil                                        da Serra
                                                                          GROSSO                                    ESPIRITO
                                                                          DO SUL               SÃO                   SANTO                                                                                                                                                                           Prata do Piauí                                                                      600
                                                                                              PAULO           RIO DE JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Miguel Leão
                                                               PARAGUAY
               P a cific O cea n




                                   CHILE                                         PARANÁ                                                                                                                                                            Agricolândia                                                             Sant Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Barro Duro                              dos Milagresdo Piauí
                                                                                           SANTA CATARINA                                                                                                                                         São Pedro               Agua      Passagem
                                                                              RIO                                                                                                                                                                   do Piauí             Branca      Franca                São Feelix
                                                    ARGENTINA               GRANDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Patmeirais       São Gonçalo do                                                 do Piauí                                                                                                          6°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hugo do Piauí
                                                                            DO SUL
                                                                                                          Atlantic O cean                       6°                                                                                             Piauí
                                                                         URUGUAY                                                                                                                                                                Angical                    Napoleão                                                 Aroazes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jardim do Mulato                Elesbão Veloso
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                do Piauí
                                        46°                                                                         45°                                                                                                               São Francisco                Regeneração                                                                             Pimenteiras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      do Maranhão
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Francinópolis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Valença do Piauí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Novo Oriente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12                                                                                                       do Piauí
                                                                                                                                                               Boa Esperança                                         00                                                                             Várzea
                                                                                                                                                                 Reservoir                                                                                                                          Grande                                Inhuma
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Francisco                   Arraial
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ayres                                                                              S. José            S. João do
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ipiranga                              Canabrava
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Guadalupe                                                                                                               do Piauí          do Piauí                                                    Pio IX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Floriano                                            Santa Rosa                                                       Sto. Antonio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D. Espedito            Bocaina de Lisaboa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mons. Hipolito
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lopes        Santana do Piauí                                                                       7°
               7°
                                                                                                                               0                                                                                                                                    Nazaré                               Oeiras                                              Francisco Alagoinhas                     Fronteiras
                                                                                                                             0                                                                                                                                      do Piauí                                                          Picos                   Santos
                                                                                                                          10                                            Antonio                                   Jerumenha                                                                                                                                                       São
                                                                                                                                                                        Almeida           Marcos                                                                                                        Colônia                                                                  Julião
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       do Piauí                Santa  Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                                          Parente                                                                                                                               do Piauí                              Padre
                                                                                                                                                     Uruçuí                   Landri                                                                                          S. Francisco                                                                                                                Caldeirão Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jaicós      Marcos
                                                                                                                                                                               Sales                                                                                             do Piauí                                     Itainópolis                                                                     do Piauí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S. Jose                                                                                      Marcolandia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             do Perre                                    Sto Inácio                                                                          60
                                                                                  Ribeiro                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          do Piauí
                                                                                 Gonçalves                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Patos do Piauí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Itaueira                                                                    Campinas                                                              Simões
                                                                                                                                                                         Bertolínia                  Canavieira                                                                                      Paes      do Piaui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Socorro                   Landim                          Isaias Coelho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rio Grande                   Flores              do Piauí                                                         Conceicão
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          do Piauí                   do Piauí                                                                             do Canindé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Simplício                               Jacobina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mendes                                  do Piauí
                                                                                                       Baíxa Grande                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8°
               8°                                                                                       do Ribeiro                                                      Manoel Emídio                                                                                                                                                                                                                         60
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Elizeu Martins                                                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Canto do Buriti                                                                                                          Paulistana
                                                                                                                                                                                     Colônia
                                                                                                                                                                                   do Gurgueia
                                                          a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Lagoa do
                                                        aíb




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S. João do Piauí                          Barro do Piauí
                                                       P arn




                                                                                                                                                                   Palmeira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Queimada Novo                                      PERNAMBUCO
                                                  Rio




                                                                                                                                                                   do Piauí

                                                                                                                                                      Cristino Castro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Coronel José Dias
                                                                                                                                                                               Santa Luz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                São Raimundo Nonato                                                                       Dom                                                                                                 9°
               9°                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Varzea                                                                         Inocêncio
                                                    Santa Filomena                                                                              Bom Jesus                                                                               Branca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Anísio de Abreu             Bonfim                   São Lourenço
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      do Piauí                   do Piauí
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               São Braz                               Dirceu Arcoverde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               de Piauí
                                                                                                                                                      Redenção                                                                                            Fartura
                                                                                                                                                     do Gurguéia                                                                                          do Piauí

                                   12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             600




                                        00
                                                                            Monte Alegre
                                                                              do Piauí

                                                                        Barreiras              Gilbués
                                                                        do Piauí                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             10°
               10°                                                                                                                                     Curimatá
                                                                                                                                                                                       Avelino                                               BA H I A                                                                                                                              BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                        Lopes
                                                                                                                                                Parnaguá


                                          T   I   NS                                          Corrente
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                           50                            100

                                   C   AN                                                                                                                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
               TO
                                                                                                          Cristalândia                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                           80




                                                                                                            do Piauí                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                  1200
AUGUST 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 40250




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                          100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11°
               11°
                                                                                                                                           0




                                        46°                                                                           45°                                                           44°                                                      43°                                                                 42°                                                            41°
