 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14633

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 05/26/2015

                 Country: Brazil
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                     Yes     No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P126449                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Piaui Green Growth              Project Costs (US$M):                    350.0                350.0
                           And Inclusion Dpl
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                     350.0                350.0
       Sector Board:         Environment                Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                03/06/2012
                                                                  Closing Date:            03/30/2013          03/30/2013
          Sector(s):         General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (70%); General education sector (30%)
          Theme(s):          Education for all (30%); Land administration and management (20%); Other rural
                             development (20%); Other environment and natural resources management (20%);
                             Environmental policies and institutions (10%)
Evaluator:                   Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                  Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
John Redwood                 Fernando Manibog         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                      Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The Program Development Objective (PDO) of this multisectoral Development Policy Loan (DPL) is "to support the
Government of Piaui (GoP) in the implementation of its efforts to achieve higher rates of green, inclusive growth." In
particular, it supports the government's strategy to develop policy reforms and programs which:

    i. promote sustainable rural green inclusive growth by: (a) improving land tenure security; (b) promoting sustainable
agricultural practices; and (c) ensuring environmental sustainability;
   ii. promote inclusive growth through improved statewide public education and a strengthened role for youth in the
labor market; and
  iii. promote fiscal sustainability through a strengthened institutional framework for efficient public service delivery
through the creation and implementation of a results-based management tool within the public sector. (Program
Document, para. 96, pg. 21)

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

1. Promotion of green inclusive growth in rural areas through the improvement of land tenure security, sustainable
agriculture and environmental sustainability.

2. Promotion of inclusive growth through the enhancement of access to basic education, increased learning outcomes
of public schools and strengthened participation of vulnerable youth in public policies and programs.
3. Promotion of fiscal sustainability through increased efficiency in public expenditure management. (Program
Document, para 99, pg. 22)

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

The Bank's loan commitment of US$ 350 million, which was approved by the Board on March 6, 2012, was disbursed
in single tranche upon effectiveness on May 31, 2012. The loan was closed one year after approval on March 30,
2013. There was no Borrower contribution.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

All three of the DPL's policy areas are consistent with the Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, pp.
18-34) for Brazil for FY 2012-2015, which has four pillars: (i) strengthen public and private investment; (ii) improve
service delivery to the poor; (iii) strengthen regional and territorial development; and (iv) support the effective
management of natural resources and the environment. They are also consistent with the GoP's 2012-2015
Multi-Year Strategic Plan (see Program Document, paras. 62-70, pp. 13-15 for details).

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

The focus on land tenure regularization, agricultural sustainability and environmental sustainability, as well as on
improved access to education and results-based public expenditures was appropriate. It also built in part on
experience with previous Bank Rural Poverty Reductions projects in Piaui, the most recent of which had closed in
January 2010, and Bank-supported education projects elsewhere in the Northeast (e.g. Pernambuco and Ceara)
where states were facing similar challenges (Program Document, paras. 84, 86, pg. 18). The idea of "twinning" a DPL
and a SWAP (i.e., policy reforms followed by Bank-supported investments to implement them) was also a good one,
even though, as noted in Section 2d above, the SWAP did not go ahead as initially planned.

However, what exactly was meant by "green, inclusive growth in rural areas" was not clearly defined in the Program
Document and the associated PDO indicators do not refer to "rural growth" per se. Despite the Policy Area to
"increase employment and income in family farming: productive inclusion", neither employment or income increases in
family farms are used as a PDO indicators. Rather the number of municipalities in which PROGERE, the state Rural
Poverty Elimination Program, is in operation is used as a proxy. However, participation in this program, in and of
itself, does not ensure that there will be an increase in employment and income in family farms.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The DPL's objective was to support the Government of Piaui (GoP) in the implementation of its efforts to achieve
higher rates of green, inclusive growth. This was broken down into three policy areas. Outcomes associated with the
specific prior actions recognized by the DPL were as follows:

First Policy Area :
Promote sustainable rural green inclusive growth by: (a) improving land tenure security; (b) promoting sustainable
agricultural practices; and (c) ensuring environmental sustainability. Three of the four outcome indicators were met or
exceeded, as described below, but it is not clear whether the subobjective of increasing employment and income in
family farming was achieved, as the ICR presents no evidence in this regard, The results associated with one of the
subcomponents for this policy area (regularization of land tenure for quilombola communities) were not discussed in
the ICR, but information was subsequently provided to IEG by the project team in this regard.

Rating: Modest

Regularize land tenure for small family farmers and larger producers , with special focus on the cerrado (or savanna
region); The 100 percent target for an increase in the number of applications for rural land tenure regularization
submitted to the Piaui State Land Institute, INTERPI, was greatly exceeded, as the number of applications as of June
2013 was 3,247, as compared with a December 2010 baseline of 826. However, the issuance of land titles to medium-
and large-scale farmers was affected by an injunction issued by a state judge in September 2012 that temporarily
suspended the process of identifying public land, which is the first step in the land regularization process. This issue
was resolved in April 2013, but resulted in slower than expected implementation of State Law No. 6,127 of November
21, 2011, recognized as a prior action for the DPL and which authorized land grants to family farmers and land sales
to producers occupying and working the land for at least five years (ICR, para. 57, pg. 10). This delay
notwithstanding, as of June 2013, INTERPI had provided 1,300 land titles to small farmers, while another 1,200 titles
had been approved and were expected to be handed over in the coming months, (ICR, para. 59, pg. 11). A second
desired outcome was a 15 percent increase in the number of eligible PRONAF (federal Program for the Strengthening
of Family Farming) applications over a December 2010 baseline of 1,177 applications. As of June 2013, 1,530 credit
applications had been received by the Banco do Nordeste (BNB), which is the main financial institution for PRONAF in
the state, thereby also exceeding the target.

There was also a prior action (Decree No. 14,625 of December 2010), but no PDO indicator, associated with the
regularization of land occupied by quilombola (descendants of runaway former slaves), about which the Program
Document (para. 111, pg. 26) observed that "to date, INTERPI, in conjunction with INCRA [the federal land reform
agency], has promoted the regularization of five quilombola communities in the state, totaling 21,215 hectares." It also
indicated (para. 113, pg. 26) that "the desired outcome targeted by this DPL's support to quilombola's rights is to
increase the number of quilombola communities with land tenure in public areas of the state and accessing rural credit
from Common PRONAF." The ICR does not report any results in this regard. However, the project team subsequently
informed IEG that, since the issuance of State Decree 14,625 until 2014, INTERPI had issued five definitive land
tenure titles from quilombola communities, covering 534 beneficiary families and nearly 20.5 million hectares.

Increase employment and income in family farming : productive inclusio n: The desired outcome was to have the State
Program for the Elimination of Rural Poverty (PROGERE) operating in 112 municipalities. As of June 30, 2013, this
program was operating in 150 municipalities, thus also exceeding the target. This Program was established by State
Decree No. 14,626 of October 31, 2011 with the objective of promoting investments aimed at generating employment
and income in family farming through the design of up to 800 project interventions in the areas of water supply,
agribusiness and environmental protection. (ICR, para. 60, pg. 11). It was also recognized as a prior action for the
present DPL. However, actual increases in employment and income in family farming were not measured, so despite
the advances recorded with respect to the expansion of the PROGERE program, it is not clear if this subobjective, as
stated, was met..

Sustainable use of rural landscapes through the adoption of environmental monitoring and enforcement : Law 6,132
of November 28, 2011 created the Program for Environmental Regularization of Rural Properties in Piaui and was
also recognized as a prior action. This Law required rural landholders to register their holdings in the Rural
Environmental Cadastre (CAR) within a three-year period, indicating: (i) the exact geo-referenced boundaries of the
holding, the location of remaining native plant cover, the location of the legal reserve, and the actual location of
permanent preservation areas; and (ii) his/her agreement and commitment to keep the lnd in compliance with
environmental forest law or to take actions to bring it into compliance (environmental regularization). (ICR, para. 63,
pg. 12). The desired outcome was to have 130,000 hectares in the cerrado area under the CAR by June 2013.
However, this was not achieved due largely to enactment of a new national Forest Code in October 2012, which
altered the CAR among other aspects. While these changes were expected by the ICR (para. 64, pg. 12) to
"strengthen" environmental management over the longer term, they delayed implementation of this measure in the
short run in Piaui.

Second Policy Area:
Promote inclusive growth through improved statewide public education and a strengthened role for youth in the labor
market. Four of the five associated outcome targets were achieved.

Rating: Substantial

Improve access to secondary education programs : As a recognized prior action, Decree No. 14,628 of October 31,
2011 established the Piaui Digital Program and introduced multimedia educational tools in schools. order to increase
the availability of academic and vocational-technical secondary education, primarily in small municipalities and remote
areas, the GoP aimed at establishing a digital link among municipalities. The desired outcome in this regard was a 20
percent increase in the number of secondary education enrollments through the Piaui Digital Program, but this target
was not achieved as such enrollment only expanded by around 5 percent. According to the ICR (para. 71, pg. 13), this
shortfall was due to the short-term budget problem faced by the state government in 2012, due to the aforementioned
decrease in FPE transfers. While the program was implemented in 300 classrooms, it also faced several problems
including low quality of connections due to lack of adequate energy investments to support the digital link
requirements and lack of equipment to improve connection quality, together with low acceptance of the new
technology by students and parents.
Improve the quality of primary education : Decree No. 14,617 of October 31, 2011 defined the Accelerated Learning
Program for grades 1 to 4 with the aim of improving efficiency of the education system through the use of
methodologies to decrease age-grade distortion, repetition, and dropout rates. This was also recognized as a prior
action for the DPL. The desired outcome was to decrease the percentage of children who were more than two years
behind grade level by at least one percentage point annually from 38.1 percent in 2010. This target was achieved with
a decrease in this indicator to 36 percent by June 2013.

Strengthen school management and learning outcomes of public schools : Decree No. 14,385 of January 13, 2011
established a formal process for the selection of regional managers on a merit-based process and Decree No. 14,607
of October 14, 2011 for the selection of school principals. These decrees were recognized as prior actions for the
DPL. Both targets -- all 21 regional manager and at least 80 percent of principals selected in accordance with these
decrees -- were achieved. 86 percent of all principals were selected on the basis of the procedures established in
Decree No. 14,607. However, the PDO indicator page suggests that it may not have been achieved as only 338 out
of a target of 395 were selected on this basis. The project team subsequently responded to IEG that the Decree
stated that the selection process should be applied only to schools with more than 200 students. For the schools with
fewer students that were excluded from this process, the Government decided to create a specific merit system
established in the Edital 002/2012 (after the DPL) by which the candidate would submit: (i) a project for school
development and (ii) his/her CV to be analyzed and graded. Considering both systems a total of 548 school principals
were selected by "merit." In addition, State Monitoring and Evaluation Systems were established to monitor schools,
to assess students' performance, and to support implementation of the quality improvement policies adopted by the
government.

Promote policies for increased social and economic inclusion of youth : Complementary Law No. 162 of December
30, 2010 created the State Coordination Agency for Youth (COJUV), which is responsible for implementation of the
State Plan for Youth Empowerment (Law No. 5,093 of 2009). The desired outcome was a 50 percent increase in the
number of Municipal Youth Councils created by legal documentation. The result exceeded the target as 31 such
Councils were established by June 2013, as compared with a target of 12. The project team subsequently informed
IEG, however, that an evaluation of the State Plan for Youth Empowerment, which was to have been carried out in
early 2014, was postponed until sometime in 2015, and, thus, is not yet available.

Third Policy Area:
Promotion of fiscal sustainability through increased efficiency in public expenditure management .

Rating: Substantial

Strengthen the institutional framework for efficient public service delivery : As a prior action, Decree No. 14,637
established the Government Results-Based and Financial Management Steering Committee to monitor a portfolio of
priority projects linked to the 2012-2015 Multi-Year Strategic Plan. The desired outcome was to have 60 percent of
state projects of programs included in the Results-Based Management System. This target was reportedly also fully
achieved (ICR, para. 88, pg. 16) although no specific indicator result is listed for this outcome in the PDO indication
section of the ICR.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

Relevance of objectives is rated high and and relevance of design is substantial. Efficacy with respect to two of the
three program policy areas are rated Substantial. One policy area is rated modest, as two important outcomes were
not achieved, albeit for reasons largely beyond the control of the state government, and the planned SWAP, intended
to complement this DPL with resources for investment to support the corresponding policy reforms, did not go forward
as anticipated. The SWAP did not proceed because of a decline in federal transfers to Piaui in 2012. Piaui is Brazil's
poorest state and it is largely dependent on these transfers for its investment budget. According to the ICR (para 39,
pg. 8), "although Piaui's macroeconomic activity remained solid, its ability to contract a new loan was affected, Thus,
the GoP suspended the preparation of the SWAP and also had fewer resources than planned to implement the new
policies, especially those that created new programs (Piaui Digital, PROGERE, and CAR)."

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The ICR (para. 101, pg. 19) rated this as Moderate "based on the financial impact caused by the decrease in FPE
resources available to the state of Piaui in 2012 [which] affected the State's investment capacity to strengthen some
state agencies to the level necessary to implement newly created programs." It added that "although this was not a
significant problem for the initial phase of the programs as assessed in this ICR, long-term sustainability will require
additional technical assistance and financial resources." Considering that the proposed follow-on SWAP, although
reportedly under advanced preparation, has not yet formally gone forward, it is unclear how these "additional technical
assistance and financial resources" will materialize.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The Bank reportedly (ICR, para. 102, pg. 19) "introduced inclusive green growth approaches to tailor the State's
vision of agricultural development in order to promote higher economic and social growth with greener outcomes."
It also agreed with the GOP to adopt a lending approach that combined a single-tranche DPL and a SWAP. This
approach was appropriate, although, as noted above, the SWAP was not implemented due to state fiscal
constraints initially caused by an unexpected decline in federal revenue transfers in 2010. It also followed on the
Bank's successful earlier experience with several rural poverty alleviation projects in the state and similar
education projects elsewhere in the Northeast and other parts of Brazil. The project team subsequently informed
IEG that the Bank is now (March 2015) finalizing preparation of two new operations for the state: (i) the Piaui
Productive and Social Inclusion DPL II (P146981) and (ii) a complementary SWAP, the Piaui Service Delivery and
Public Sector Management Project (P129342). Both of these operations, whose presentation was delayed due to
state fiscal constraints that have now apparently been resolved, contain substantive areas that are related to those
of the first DPL presently under review. However, some of the performance indicators could have better reflected
the objectives or subobjectives with which they were associated. This was the case, for example, with respect to
the objective to increase income and employment in family farming, for which the only indicator was the number of
municipalities that participated in the PROGERE program, but there was no attempt to measure increases in
income and employment among family farmers per se. It is also possible that the fiscal constraints that adversely
affected the state's investment budget and its ability to proceed with the planned complementary SWAP, although
anticipated in the Program Document (pg. 46) could have been given greater attention during preparation.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


 b. Quality of supervision:


While little supervision was required for the DPL per se, as its disbursement was based on recognition of a set of
prior actions, the Bank nevertheless conducted five missions to the state (covering implementation and completion
stages) in order to help prepare the SWAP, which did not go forward. According to the ICR (para 116, pp. 21-22),
this "enabled the Bank team to identify early on the impact of the revised Forest Code on the State's CAR law and
propose adequate mitigation measures" and the team also "identified trust fund resources that could be used to
implement the CAR in Piaui, negotiated with the donor, and initiated the preparation of a US$ 4.5 million grant with
SEMAR [the state environment and water resource secretariat] to provide technical assistance for the CAR's
application in the cerrado."


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
While state government commitment to the program was reportedly strong, because of the short-term financial
problems faced by the state in 2012, training and capacity building "were not adequately provided to the agencies
that had to implement new programs supported by the DPL" and "no measures were foreseen to speed up the
implementation of several activities and ensure the achievement of important targets once the financial constraints
were resolved" (para. 123, pg. 23).



   Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory


 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Soon after the loan was signed, there was a change in its institutional structure for the management of lending
operations that resulted in decreasing "power to push for the implementation of the policies supported by the
DPL," according to the ICR (para. 122, pg. 22). Thus, while the Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN), which had initially
been responsible for coordinating program implementation reportedly did a good job in this regard, once this
responsibility was transferred to the newly created Superintendency for Financial and Technical Cooperation,
performance was less effective. Even so, as indicated in section 4 above, most program results were satisfactory.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

Performance indicators and end-of-project targets were defined jointly by the GoP and the Bank, but some of the
indicators did not provide a direct on adequate reflection of the objectives or subobjectives with which they were
associated.

b. M&E Implementation:

Monitoring of actions associated with the DPL was carried out though the state's Strategic Actions Monitoring System
(SIMO), which, according to the ICR (para. 44, pg. 9) was the result of one of the policies supported by the DPL, and
represented an "evolution" of the monitoring model adopted by the state government in 2010. SIMO monitors actions,
projects, and programs managed by state agencies, identifies implementation delays, and proposes actions to correct
distortions found during implementation.

c. M&E Utilization:

Although the ICR provides a general description of how the SIMO system operates, it does not indicate specifically
how it was used in the case of the present operation.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The ICR does not comment on how OP 8.60 was applied to this operation. The Program Document, however,
affirmed (para. 165, pg. 40) that, "overall, the specific policy reforms supported by this development policy loan are
expected to have significant and positive environmental impact because they promote environmental compliance in
rural areas and sustainable agriculture" and refers specifically to the CAR in this context (paras. 167-169, pp. 40).
However, as the ICR points out the PDO indicator associated with the CAR was not achieved because it
implementation in Piaui was delayed as a result of changes introduced by the new federal Forest Code approved in
2012. The Program Document, moreover, does not identify or assess possible adverse environmental impacts
associated with the expansion of employment and income in family farming activities, with the possible new or
increased use of agro-chemicals (i,e., fertilizers and/or pesticides), for example, as a result of the expansion of
PROGERE activities to the targeted 112 and actual 150 municipalities in association with this objective, especially in
the absence of the CAR, which, according to the PAD (para 125, pg. 29), was intended to "require that landholders
'regularize' their holdings environmentally (bring them into compliance) by removing 'environmental liabilities'
(violations of law)".

The project team subsequently affirmed to IEG that the poverty, social and environmental aspects of the DPL-
supported policies were addressed in accordance with OP 8.60. It also stated that. as OP 8.60 explicitly requires the
Bank to assess how to maximize significant potential effects of DPL-supported policies, the Bank envisaged a SWAP
to support the GoP with investments and technical assistance to address the potential gaps in the State environmental
management system. Unfortunately, this operation did not come to fruition due to fiscal issues faced by the GoP.
The Bank is currently preparing two operations (DPL and IPF) to support the GoP in the second phase of its policy
reforms. The new operations, which will be processed and signed together, take into account lessons from the first
DPL and offer additional analytical work (e.g., PSIA and Policy Strategic Environmental Analysis) to ensure that
poverty, social and environmental aspects are fully considered in the policy design. As the Bank had originally
proposed in the first DPL, the proposed IPF will support the GoP to deal with the gaps in its environmental
management system to enhance the positive environmental effects of its policies.

As concerns PROGERE, more specifically, the project team subsequently informed IEG that the State Secretariat of
Rural Development (SDR) has not yet concluded the final evaluation report of PROGERE I. Nevertheless, information
provided in the PROGERE II proposal (prepared by the PROGERE I team) suggests that PROGERE I applied basic
environmental management measures including the environmental characterization form. The proposal also indicates
that PROGERE I supported activities with pesticide use and that these followed the Brazilian Environmental
Legislation. According to verbal communications, the PROGERE I procedures were informed by the operations
manuals (MOPs) of the former PCPRs [World Bank-supported rural poverty alleviation investment projects in the
State].

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
NA

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:

The DPL helped to address gender inequalities by requiring that land titles issued in association with the DPL be
issued in the names of both spouses. According to the ICR (para. 97, pg. 18), it also contributed to the
inter-institutional integration among different state government agencies.



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                  Significant            It is not clear whether or how the
                     Outcome:                                                  "additional technical assistance and
                                                                               financial resources" that the ICR argued
                                                                               would be necessary for the long-term
                                                                               sustainability of the DPL's development
                                                                               outcome would materialize in the
                                                                               absence of anticipated World Bank
                                                                               follow-on projects, which are reportedly
                                                                               still under preparation.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory              Moderately             Some of the indicators in the Results
                                                        Satisfactory           Framework did not adequately reflect
                                                                              the objectives with which they were
                                                                              associated (e.g., increased incomes
                                                                              and employment of family farmers) and
                                                                              the significant of the potential fiscal
                                                                              risks on the state's ability to provide
                                                                              counterpart funding for the proposed
                                                                              complementary SWAP were
                                                                              underestimated.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Several important lessons are highlighted by the ICR, the most important of which are:

  1. Strong client ownership and leadership are essential for adequate DPL preparation and implementation.

  2. The design and implementation of complex policy reforms require strong inter-institutional leadership and
coordination.

  3. In cases where the Borrower is relatively weak in policy implementation, the Bank should consider developing
an investment operation in tandem with the DPL, although because the proposed complementary SWAP did no go
to the Board as scheduled, this operation did not provide evidence as to the effectiveness of this approach.

  4. In cases where the prior actions recognized by the DPL include the creation of a new program, it might be
necessary to request a detailed analysis of the budget for its implementation. Moreover, new programs (such as
Piaui Digital) could have benefited from a cost-benefit analysis to strengthen their action plans. While such
assessments should not be part of the DPL, they could be undertaken with the support of a small parallel technical
assistance loan.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is well-written, candid, and of good quality. However, it could also have commented on aspects related to
OD 8.60 (under the heading of "safeguards") and discussed results in relation to the regularization of land occupied by
qurimbola communities.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
