                  Document of
               The World Bank


                                               Report No:   66124 v1



            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                    ON A

      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                     OF
NATIONAL SUPPORT FOR BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
                   LOAN

      BOARD APPROVAL DATE: JUNE 20, 2006


                   TO THE

         REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES


               December 13, 2011
 Regional Vice President:        James W. Adams
        Country Director:        Chiyo Kanda
Sector Manager / Director:       Luis Benveniste/Emmanuel Jimenez
       Task Team Leader:         Lynnette Dela Cruz Perez



                             2
          PHILIPPINES — NATIONAL SUPPORT FOR BASIC EDUCATION
                                P094063
                             LOAN NO. 7393

                                   Restructuring Paper



1.     The closing date for the National Support for Basic Education project [Loan No.
7393, P094063] will be extended from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012.

2.      Overall project implementation is Moderately Satisfactory. Improvements were
recorded in key performance indicators such as net enrolment rate, completion rate and
achievement rate in both the elementary and secondary levels. The activities under the
various components of the project had an important catalytic role in basic education
reform implementation. Critical resources such as classrooms, teachers, and teaching and
learning materials were mobilized in areas of greatest need, identified from school-level
data in the Basic Education Information System. School-Based Management practices
were expanded nationwide while improvements were made on the teacher deployment
process. Competency-based teacher standards developed under the project are used in
the hiring, training, professional development and promotion of teachers. Alternative
delivery modes were expanded to address the particular needs of poor and marginalized
children. Public-private partnerships were intensified which enhanced mobilization of
resources to finance reform activities including the development of information systems,
training of teachers, and management of resources. DepED-Local Government
partnerships were forged, especially in terms of classroom construction and enhancement
of school-based management. Several transparency and accountability measures were put
in place across the education system.

3.     The project development objectives continue to be achievable, but a year
extension of the project implementation period is being requested.

4.     The proposed extension is necessary to allow the Department of Education to
complete the procurement and delivery of the English, Mathematics, and Science and
Technology textbooks to be financed under the project. The implementing agency, the
Department of Education, has prepared an action plan as well as a revised Procurement
Plan and Disbursement Schedule to complete the project.

5.     There are no outstanding audit report issues on the project.

6.     This will be the first extension of the project.




                                              3
