Page  1
CONFORMED
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028953
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
(Planning for Adaptation to Global Climate Change Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
GENERAL SECRETARIAT 
OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES  
Dated March 13, 1997
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028953
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 13, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of 
the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund 
by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF 
Page  2
THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued in place 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the GEF Council has agreed that the Recipient acts, in connection with the 
Project, as an Executing Agency for the purposes of paragraph 28 of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility which was accepted by the GEF 
participants in March 1994;
(D)
the Recipient is a duly established international organization and  represents that 
it has the necessary legal capacity and powers to enter into this Agreement and perform its 
obligations herein set forth;
(E)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of 
the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
Page  3
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01 and 10.03; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Section 2.01 (8) thereof and the last use of such term in Section 5.01 
thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except as the 
Bank and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
Page  4
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations.”; and
(viii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Bank determines, after consultation with the Recipient, that an amount 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (d) at any 
time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is inconsistent 
with the procedures set forth or referred to in the GEF Trust Fund 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or (e) after the Closing Date, 
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
“CMI” means Caribbean Meteorological Institute, a duly established 
international organization with headquarters located in Barbados;
(c)
“CMI Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02  of this 
Agreement;
Page  5
(d)
“CMI Subgrant” means a grant to be made by the Recipient to the CMI in 
accordance with the CMI Agreement; 
(e)
“NICU” means the National Implementation Coordinating Unit referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (i) (A) of this Agreement;
(f) 
“PAC” means the Project Advisory Committee referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(iii) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Participating Country” means any of the following countries: (i) Antigua and 
Barbuda; (ii) Commonwealth of the Bahamas; (iii) Barbados; (iv) Belize; (v) Commonwealth of 
Dominica; (vi) Grenada; (vii) Republic of Guyana; (viii) Jamaica; (ix) St. Kitts and Nevis; (x) St. 
Lucia; and (xi) Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; which has entered into a Participating Country 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined) not later than six months after the Effective Date and the term 
“Participating Countries” means collectively all such countries; 
(h)
“Participating Country Agreements” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(i)
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter dated February 19, 1997 delivered 
by the Recipient’s Secretary General to the Bank, setting forth the indicators and targets to be 
used in monitoring the progress of the implementation of the Project and in the evaluation of its 
results;
(j)
“RPIU” means the Regional Project Implementation Unit referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(l)
“Tidal Gauge Replacement Fund” means the fund referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
(m)
“UWICED” means University of West Indies, Centre for Environment and 
Development; and
(n)
“UWICED Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Page  6
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 4,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project, and for the CMI 
Grant; and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with the 
participation of the Participating Countries, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with the Annual Operating Plan and appropriate administrative, financial and environmental 
practices, and substantially in accordance with the corresponding targets, and with due regard 
with the respective indicators, as set forth in the Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall:
(i)
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
each  Participating Country (the Participating Country Agreement) such 
agreement to determine, inter alia, the Participating Country’s  role in 
the execution of the Project, including the obligation of each 
Participating Country to: (A) establish and thereafter maintain, during 
Project implementation, with adequate facilities and equipment, a 
national implementation coordinating unit (the NICU) with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications, for the 
purposes of, inter alia: (1) providing support to, and coordination of all 
Project activities that correspond to the Participating Country; (2) 
coordinating Project activities with the RPIU and with the other NICUs; 
Page  7
(3) ensuring the maintenance and dissemination of the information 
inventoried and generated as a result of the Project; (B) select staff and 
other personnel from its appropriate agencies to participate in Project 
activities at the country level, and in national and regional training 
programs (including seminars, workshops and other training activities); 
(C) assign adequate counterpart staff and provide necessary logistical 
support, including local transportation, for the installation of the climate 
sensor or sensors and tidal gauge or gauges, as appropriate; (D) maintain 
all the equipment provided under the Project in satisfactory condition; 
(E) assist the Recipient in the preparation of the reports referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement and provide any other information or 
reports (including quarterly reports on the progress of the corresponding 
Project activities) relevant to the Project that the Recipient may request; 
(F) participate, whenever requested by the Recipient or the Bank, in the 
reviews referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(ii)
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
the University of West Indies (the UWICED Agreement) such agreement 
to provide, inter alia, for the establishment, not later than sixty days after 
this Effective Date, and thereafter maintenance, during Project 
implementation, within UWICED of a regional Project implementation 
unit (the RPIU) with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory 
to the Bank, and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, for the purposes of, inter alia: (A) discharging the 
responsibility for: (1) the day-to-day management of the Project; (2) the 
technical management and execution of selected  Project activities 
assigned by the Recipient; and (3) the financial administration of the 
corresponding Project funds assigned to the UWICED by the Recipient; 
(B) coordinating with, and providing assistance to, the relevant NICU in 
respect to the implementation of Project activities; (C) assisting the 
Recipient in the selection of consultants required for the Project and in 
the management and supervision of their contracts; (D) acting, on behalf 
of the Recipient, as the secretariat of the PAC and organizing its 
meetings; (E) assisting the Recipient in the preparation of the relevant 
Annual Operating Plan; (F) assisting the Recipient in the preparation of 
the reports referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement and 
providing any other information or reports (including quarterly reports 
on the progress of the Project) relevant to the Project that the Recipient 
may request; and (G) participating, whenever requested by the Recipient 
or the Bank, in the reviews referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(iii)
not later than ninety days after the Effective Date, 
establish and thereafter maintain an advisory council (the PAC), which 
shall meet upon invitation of the Recipient at least once a year, with 
responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and 
comprised of one representative from the Caribbean Community 
(CARICOM) which will chair the PAC, the Caribbean representative at 
the GEF Council, two representatives of the NICUs, and one 
representative each from the UWICED, the United Nations Environment 
Page  8
Program’s Caribbean Environment Program, the United Nations 
Development Program and from a non-governmental organization, for 
the purposes of, inter alia: (A) advising the Recipient with respect to 
aspects of Project implementation; (B) providing the Recipient with 
policy guidance on issues related to the Project; (C) reviewing and 
making recommendations to the Recipient with respect to the relevant 
Annual Operating Plan; and (D) evaluating Project results.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with 
the CMI (the CMI Agreement), such agreement to provide, inter alia, that not later than 36 
months after the Effective Date, the CMI shall establish a tidal gauge replacement fund (the Tidal 
Gauge Replacement Fund) with proceeds of a grant to be made by the Recipient to the CMI (the 
CMI Subgrant), out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, for the purposes of financing 
the maintenance and replacement, as needed, of the instruments included in Part A.1 of the 
Project, such Fund to operate under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) and 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
in the months of July and January of each year during Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank reports on the progress in the implementation of the Project during the 
previous six months which shall take into consideration the targets and indicators set forth in the 
Annex to the Project Monitoring Letter, such reports to be of scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; and
(b)
in the months of August and February of each year during Project 
implementation, hold reviews jointlywith the Bank (the review to take place in February 1999, to 
be the mid-term review), such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in paragraphs (a) 
above and, thereafter, take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed 
upon by the Recipient and the Bank during the reviews referred to in this paragraph, as necessary 
for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be 
taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such reviews.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall, in the month of December of each year during Project 
implementation, furnish to the Bank an annual plan satisfactory to the Bank (the Annual 
Operating Plan), describing, inter alia, the Project activities (and their relation to the objectives 
of the Project) to be carried out during the next calendar year, including the costs thereof, such 
plan to take into account the recommendations made by the PAC.
Section 3.06. The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under each Participating Country Agreement, the CMI Agreement and the UWICED Agreement 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank to accomplish the 
purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such Participating 
Country Agreement, the CMI Agreement and the UWICED Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  9
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient on said 
plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  10
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Arbitration
Section 5.01. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place of arbitration 
shall be Washington, D.C., United States of America.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
that at least six Participating Country Agreements have become effective and the 
corresponding NICUs have been established;
(b)
that the UWICED Agreement has become effective; and
(c)
that an operating plan, satisfactory to the Bank, describing, inter alia, the Project 
activities to be carried during the first three months of Project implementation, including the 
costs thereof, has been furnished to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date June 13, 1997, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Page  11
Section 7.01. The Secretary General of the Recipient is designated as representative of 
the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
For the Recipient:
General Secretariat of the Organization of American States
1889 F Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C.  20006 
United States of America
Cable address:  
Telex:
OAS
64128 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., U.S.A., as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF 
Page  12
AMERICAN STATES
By /s/ César Gaviria
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods
   810,000
100%
(2)  Consultants’ Services 
and Training
3,000,000
100%
(3) CMI Subgrant  
      40,000
100%
(4) RPIU Operating Costs
     70,000
100%
(5) Operating Costs
   480,000
100%
            TOTAL                                     4,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “Operating Costs” means the expenditures made for office supplies, 
communications, travel and per diem, and for staff remuneration incurred by the Recipient in 
coordinating and supervising Project activities; and
(b)
the term “RPIU Operating Costs” means the expenditures made for office 
supplies and communications incurred by the University of West Indies in the carrying out of its 
functions under the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
Page  13
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
any expenditure unless such expenditure has been included in the relevant 
Annual Operation Plan or in the operating plan referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
and
(c)
payments under Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, which expenditures are related to Part A.2 of the Project, unless the CMI Agreement 
has become effective and the Tidal Gauge Replacement Fund has been established.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for training, Operating Costs and 
RPIU Operating Costs; and (b) under contracts for: (i) goods costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms costing less than $75,000 equivalent; and (iii) 
services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for 
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.04 of the General Conditions and of Section 
2.02 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank and the Recipient hereby agree that no reallocation will be 
made in respect of Category (4) (RPIU Operating Costs) and of Category (5)  (Operating Costs) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule to increase the amount allocated to such 
category under this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Participating Countries in preparing to cope 
with the adverse effects of global climate change, particularly sea-level rise in coastal and marine 
areas of the Participating Countries, by: (i) strengthening the regional capacity for monitoring 
and analyzing climate and sea-level dynamics and trends, seeking to determine the immediate 
and potential impacts of global climate change; (ii) identifying areas particularly vulnerable to 
the adverse effects of climate change and sea-level rise; (iii) developing an integrated 
management and planning framework for cost-effective response and adaptation to the impacts of 
global climate change on coastal and marine area; (iv) enhancing regional and national 
capabilities for preparing for the advent of global climate change through institutional 
strengthening and human resources development; and (v) identifying and assessing policy 
options and instruments to help initiate the implementation of a long-term program of adaptation 
to global climate change in vulnerable coastal areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Page  14
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:Design, Establishment and Operation of a Sea-Level and Climate Monitoring 
Network
1.
Design, establishment and operation of a sea-level and climate observation network in 
each of the Participating Countries to include: (a) a standardized set of instruments to measure 
water level, vertical land motion, air and sea temperature, wind velocity, precipitation, and other 
site-specific ancillary variables; (b) eighteen state-of-the-art gauges generating digitized data 
available in near real time by satellite telemetry or telephone; and (c) fixed tide gauge bench 
mark in geocentric coordinates so that the vertical movement of the land can be distinguished 
from sea level changes.  
2.
Finance the maintenance and replacement, as needed, of the instruments included in Part 
A.1 above through the establishment of the Tidal Gauge Replacement Fund in an amount of not 
less than SDR40,000 equivalent, within the CMI.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training in support of the activities described in 
Part A.1 above.
Part B
: Establishment and Operation of Data Bases and Information Systems
1.
Establishment and operation of data bases and information systems provided with the 
necessary software for data base management, data visualization and display, INTERNET 
communication, and web browsing, to assist Participating Countries and regional organizations 
of the Caribbean in their efforts to plan for adaptation to climate change, so as to permit such 
Participating Countries and regional organizations of the Caribbean to: (a) acquire, analyze, 
store, and disseminate data on climate change and the impact on natural and man-made systems; 
(b) facilitate access to the information for a wide range of public and private sector users and 
researchers; and (c) facilitate Project management and monitoring and evaluation by linking 
regional archiving centers with the data bases of the RPIU and the NICUs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training in support of the activities described in 
Part B.1 above.
Part C
: Inventory of Coastal Resources and Utilization
1.
Development of an inventory of coastal resources for each Participating Country, in 
order to provide the necessary baseline data for the execution of other Project activities, such 
baseline data to include the following elements: (a) coastal physical characteristics; (b) natural 
environments; and (c) information on the utilization of coastal areas and resources.  In the 
development of such inventory, the widely varying coastal zone resources, existing inventories, 
and analysis capabilities in the region shall be taken into consideration.  
2.
Provision of geographic information systems (GIS) capability, compilation of the 
existing data, and provision of a regional training course in resource inventory preparation.  
Part D
: Formulation of a Policy Framework for Integrated Coastal and Marine 
Management
Page  15
Development of a generic policy framework through the provision of technical 
assistance, training and a public awareness and education program, to support the preparation of 
integrated coastal zone management legislation for Participating Countries, such framework to 
incorporate mechanisms for planning for adaptation to climate change, such as land use 
guidelines and disaster contingency planning.  
Part E
:
Coral Reef Monitoring for Climate Change
1.
Establishment of a long-term coral reef monitoring pilot program in three Participating 
Countries (the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, Belize, and Jamaica), which over time would 
show the effects of global warming factors (temperature stress, sea level rise, and hurricanes) on 
coral reefs.   
2.
Identification of methodologies to adjust and extend current monitoring efforts of global 
warming impacts on Caribbean reefs, including the carrying out of public awareness and 
educational programs, transfer of technology and regional meetings in order to review the 
monitoring program and to train country specialists from Participating Countries on monitoring 
methodologies and lessons learned.
Part F
:
Coastal Vulnerability and Risk Assessment
1.
Development of pilot vulnerability and risk assessments in three Participating Countries 
(Barbados, Grenada and the Republic of Guyana) through the review of coastal vulnerability 
assessment models and the application of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
common methodology in these three countries and dissemination to other Participating 
Countries.
2.
Provision of training and transfer of information, in connection with the activities 
described in Part F.1 above, among Participating Countries’ agencies involved in coastal zone 
management issues.
3.
Preparation of manuals for the execution of coastal vulnerability and risk assessments, 
and the carrying out of public awareness and educational programs related to the vulnerability of 
coastal areas.  
Part G
: Economic Valuation of Coastal and Marine Resources
1.
Carrying out of pilot studies in three Participating Countries (Commonwealth of 
Dominica, St. Lucia, and Republic of Trinidad and Tobago) on the economic valuation of 
resources in selected coastal ecosystems at risk from sea-level rise, such pilot studies to focus on 
a coastal ecosystem and associated economic activities.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training of regional and local personnel in the use 
of alternative resource valuation strategies, the development of environmental accounts, and 
cost-benefit analysis.  
3.
Development of appropriate economic valuation techniques related to coastal ecosystems 
and dissemination of the results of the pilot studies described in Part G.1 above to other 
Participating Countries. 
Page  16
Part H
: Formulation of Economic and Regulatory Proposals
1.
Carrying out of pilot studies in two Participating Countries (Antigua and Barbuda and St. 
Kitts and Nevis) in order to demonstrate the design and use of economic and regulatory 
approaches to environmental protection in response to threats from sea-level rise.  The results of 
the pilot studies would be used to develop training materials for use in regional workshops and 
would serve as input for the development of a region-wide policy framework.
2.
Provision of training to local  and regional personnel in the design of economic-based 
regulations and other innovative approaches for coastal and marine management, as well as in 
program finance for environmental management. 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part. A
.General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B
.
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
.
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Computers (other than highly specialized scientific equipment) and remote sensing 
images costing each $100,000 equivalent or more in the aggregate, which the Bank agrees can 
only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the 
Guidelines.
Page  17
2.
Direct Contracting
Highly specialized scientific equipment including sea level tidal gauges and telemetry 
equipment which is of a proprietary nature and costing $350,000 equivalent or more in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods (other than highly specialized scientific equipment) estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods (other than highly specialized scientific 
equipment) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for highly specialized scientific equipment, the 
procedures set forth in the relevant provisions of paragraph 2 and the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
Page  18
World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard 
form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection 
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: 
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $75,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent 
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000, or 
such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
Page  19
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
Page  20
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
