Report No. PIC4372
Project Name                   Djibouti-Technical Assistance to (@)
Support Economic Reform
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Technical Assistance Loan
Project ID                     DJPA44174
Borrower                       Republic of Djibouti
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
Date PID prepared              January 1997
Appraisal Date                 June 1996
Actual Board Date              January 23, 1997
Peer Reviewers                 Roger Sullivan, AFTlI
Pisei Eap, AFTM3
A. Country Background
1.   Djibouti has a GDP per capita of US$780, but with an economy that
is particularly vulnerable due to its lack of diversity. It has no
known natural resources or permanent waterways, its manufacturing base
is diminutive, and its agricultural potential, very limited. The
Djiboutian economy relies aost completely on: (a) the strategic location
of its port which is used as a re-exporting and supply center and as a
French naval base; (b) a French military base of approximately 2,300
soldiers; (c) French budgetary support; and (d) the stability of the
Djiboutian Franc (FDJ) which has provided for the development of banking
activities and regional-type insurance. Since independence the
combination of these factors and persistent regional instability have
fostered a public management framework lacking rigor. In 1992, the
situation started to deteriorate. Djibouti's economic and financial
performance has been adversely affected by three shocks: (a) the
regional political situation greatly improved affecting negatively; the
port's activities as less humanitarian assistance was channeled through
Djibouti, and the neighboring ports of Berbera (Somalia) and Assab
(Eritrea) were re-opened; (b) the domestic armed conflict (1991-1994)
and an influx of about 100,000 refugees from neighboring countries have
lead the Government to boost considerably its military expenditures; and
(c) a reduction in both budgetary transfers and the French presence. By
1995, the situation had clearly become unsustainable and the Government
faced an economic problem of daunting complexity. In the short term, it
is essential that public finances be stabilized. Since fiscal receipts
are already relatively high and domestic borders essentially
uncontrollable, much of the deficit-reduction effort must focus on
expenditure. Over the medium term, Djibouti must establish a new
economic base with less reliance on external assistance.
2.   The IMF and the Government have agreed on the content of a formal
arrangement. In addition to fiscal stabilization, the program includes
the following structural reforms: (a) the rationalization of public



expenditures; (b) public enterprise reform and divestiture; (c) public
service reform; and (d) an armed forces demobilization program. This is
the first time that the Government of Djibouti has embarked upon a
structural adjustment program, the scope of which will require highly
specialized technical skills that are scarce in Djibouti. While there
are a few academically qualified young technicians, they have very
little practical experience. Accordingly, the Government of Djibouti
has requested IDA's assistance to implement the structural reforms
required by their program with the IMF. The authorities recognize that
they have never before faced such drastic reforms, and that they need
support to guide them through the process.
B. Proposed Project
3.   Project Objectives. The project's objective is to assist the
Government of Djibouti to implement of its economic reform program.
Specifically, the project will support Government's decision-making
related to macroeconomic reforms and their associated policy and
programming framework by: (a) providing the expertise necessary to help
with policy formulation and reforms; and (b) supporting close monitoring
of the implementation of the reform program.
4.   Project Components.    The key components are set out below:
5.   Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Monitoring Component.    The
project will assist the SAP Interministerial Steering Committee (SAP-
ISC) to fulfill its mandate, i.e., coordination, monitoring, analysis,
identification, programming and "facilitation" (enabling) for the
overall reform program. The implementing agency for the SAP-ISC is the
SAP Monitoring Cell (SMC) located in the Ministry of Finance and
National Economy (MFNE). The project will support the functions of the
SMC: establishment of a monitoring framework for the reform program,
data and information gathering and processing related to the various
reforms; production of complementary studies with recommendations to the
SAP-ISC; and the implementation of a communication strategy and action
plan to facilitate the change process.
6.   Support for Institutional Reform.    The project will assist the
Government to identify its strategy to reduce the wage bill and to
rationalize the public administration. The project would also pave the
way for a more comprehensive reform of the public service. To achieve
this, the project will finance: (a) the training of senior officials in
administrative reform techniques and tools; and (b) an institutional
assessment, and service delivery surveys to be headed by the Ministry of
Public Service and Administrative Reform (MPSAR). This assessment will
provide recommendations to the SAP-ISC for an institutional reform
action plan to be approved by Government. If the Government approves
the action plan and a timetable for implementation, the project will
support to the implementation of the action plan.
7.   Public Enterprise (PE) Reform and Privatization Program.    This
component will support Government's efforts to: (a) modify the legal
and institutional framework governing the PEs; (b) identify and present
a settlement arrangement for cross-debts; (c) recommend specific
measures to improve the management of the PE portfolio; (d) propose
- 2-



specific measures to improve PE performance against set targets; and (e)
analyze and prescribe a divestiture program. A PE Reform Monitoring
Unit (PEMU) located in the SMC has been created to oversee specifically
the implementation of this program.
8.   Support to the Armed Forces Demobilization Program.    This component
will provide the tools and administrative support necessary for
Government to demobilize its armed forces with or without donor
assistance if the program is acceptable to IDA. More specifically, the
project will support: (a) the establishment of transparent financial
procedures for the demobilization process; (b) the preparation of a pre-
discharge orientation program for the veterans; and (c) the elaboration
of a management information system to monitor the situation of
demobilized soldiers.
C. Project Implementation
9.   Project implementation will be the responsibility of the SMC
located in the MFNE. The execution of the reform agenda is the
responsibility of the SAP-ISC, headed by the Minister of Finance, and
encompassing thirteen ministries and agencies. Its role is to
formulate, for Cabinet's approval, recommendations and proposals
resulting from the monitoring and analysis of the budget situation,
performance monitoring indicators of the SAP, effect of the
demobilization and public service reform on the wage bill, PE reform and
labor policies. The SMC is the executing agency of the SAP-ISC, and
interface with the technical ministries and the Bretton Woods
institutions.
D. Project Sustainability
10. A simple project design channeling all project resources through
the SMC will facilitate project sustainability. The project will
reinforce the SMC within the Government by providing a resident adviser,
responsible for training a national counterpart to assume full
responsibility for heading the Cell after one year. A training plan and
targets for the counterpart will be established and monitored during the
first year of the project. The SMC will also benefit from the TA and
training necessary to carry out its mandate. It is foreseen that it
will exercise its role of implementing economic reforms over several
years. Therefore, it is important that the project equip the Cell with
the necessary tools and techniques. Short-term training, (on-the-job,
in-service) seminars and workshops will expose staff to areas of
expertise related to the implementation of a structural adjustment
program and more general areas of management.
E. Poverty Category
11. Not applicable.
F. Environmental Aspects
12. No negative environmental impact from the proposed credit is
expected.
-3-



G. Program Objective Category
13. The project supports both the economic management program objective
and the Government's structural adjustment program.
H. Project Benefits
14. The project assists directly the implementation of Djibouti's
structural adjustment program launched with IMF and Bank support. The
project will help Djibouti to progress towards better economic
management and lay the basis for better growth in the medium-term.
Major benefit is expected from greater commitment by all level of
government to the reform agenda and from a stronger Government body, the
SMC. The latter will be able to undertake better economic analysis and
reporting and thence make sounder recommendations to the SAP-ISC for
advancing the reform program.
I. Project Risks
15. Any delay or backtracking in the Government's response to the SAP
will affect project implementation and reduce its chances of success.
The capacity and willingness of Djiboutian institutions to adapt to
necessary reforms are variables which might also limit success. An
unwillingness of the Government to take difficult decisions is also an
important risk that would have an impact on the overall economic reform
program and not solely on the project. The demobilization of the armed
forces is a key element of the economic reform program. Should the
Government be unable to find external financing, this component would be
implemented over a longer period of time with Government's own limited
resources.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
- 4 -



