                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 29215 DJI

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (PPFI-P9780 IDA-29340)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.30 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                                DJIBOUTI

                                                 FOR A

                                DJIBOUTI TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE

                                                (PATARE)




                                              June 25, 2004




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Djibouti Franc (FDJ)
                                   DJF 100.00 = US$ 0.56
                                      US$ 1.00 = 177 DJF

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPI      Consumer Price Index
EU       European Union
FCC      Fiscal Consolidation Credit
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INAP     Institut national d'administration public
MFNE     Ministry of Finance and National Economy
MOP      Memorandum of the President
MPSAR    Ministry of Public Service and Administrative Reform
PE       Public Enterprises
PEMU     Public Enterprise Monitoring Unit
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PRGF     Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
SMC      Structural Adjustment Monitoring Cell
SAP-ISC  Structural Adjustment Program Interministerial Steering
         Committee
TA       Technical Assistance
UNDP     United Nations Development Program

                               Vice President:     Christiaan Poortman
                              Country Director     Mahmood Ayub
                               Sector Manager      Carlos Silva-Jauregui
                            Task Team Leader       Kouassi Soman
                           Task Leader at ICR      Giulio de Tommaso

                                          DJIBOUTI
                                DJ-TECH.ASSIST (PATARE)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P044174                                                  Project Name: DJ-TECH.ASSIST (PATARE)
Team Leader: Kouassi Soman                                           TL Unit: MNSED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: DJ-TECH.ASSIST (PATARE)                                  L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9780; IDA-29340
   Country/Department: DJIBOUTI                                                           Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Conflict prevention and
                            post-conflict reconstruction (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (P); Other public sector governance (P); State enterprise/bank
                            restructuring and privatization (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/02/1996                                     Effective: 08/22/1997                08/22/1997
     Appraisal: 08/22/1997                                         MTR: 06/15/1999
      Approval: 01/23/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Mahmood A. Ayub                                Harold Wackman
Sector Manager:                 Carlos Silva-Jauregui                          Roger Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:             Giulio de Tommaso                              Denyse Morin
ICR Primary Author:             Mikhail Pryadilnikov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

Since its independence in 1977 Djibouti's economic performance has been poor. The estimated average real
growth rate between 1977 and 2003 was below 1 percent. The real per capita income declined by 60
percent, from $1,505 in 1978 to $490 in 2003. The average life expectancy is currently 50 years and the
infant mortality rate is around 114 per thousand. Serious malnutrition affects a large portion of the
population with at least 14 percent of children under the age of five are not able to acquire the minimum
daily calories needed for survival. Having very few natural resources at its disposal, Djibouti's economy
relies heavily on the service sector particularly its port which remains an important transport gateway to
Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia and other parts of Eastern Africa. However, the industry does not generate
enough jobs and the unemployment affects just over a half of all working age adults.

The economic situation worsened significantly following a decrease in foreign assistance in the early 1990s
after a partial withdrawal of the French troops. The withdrawal of international support was coupled with
the internal conflict which lasted for three years between 1991 and 1994. In combination, this events led to
a drastic drop in living standards, increased borrowing and severe deterioration of already weak social
services.

By 1995, the government began accumulating arrears, domestic and external, equalling to about 10 percent
of GDP by the end of the fiscal year. To address this problem, policy discussions with multi-lateral
development agencies began to focus on the problems associated with economic management and
particularly the management and distribution of revenue and oversight of public enterprises. It was
estimated that by 1995, the Government's wage bill reached 82 percent of domestic revenues while
government's arrears topped US$ 44 million. In the absence of drastic corrective measures, Djibouti's
already difficult economic situation was bound to get worse.

Following consultations with the IMF, the authorities concluded a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) which
focused on the reduction of the wage bill, the simplification of tax collection, and improvement of the
management of public enterprises. The adjustment program with the IMF required local knowledge and
implementation capacity which Djibouti lacked. While there were a few qualified technical specialists, they
had little practical experience managing complex reform programs. The IDA's assistance was requested to
help provide technical assistance necessary for the implementation of the reform program.

Up to that point the World Bank's involvement in Djibouti was limited to projects on urban development,
infrastructure and energy, with no new IDA lending being provided since 1991. The lack of IDA lending
reflects in large part the deteriorating social and economic situation in the country. However, with
agreement on an economic reform program, IDA has sought to move rapidly to provide needed support.

The PATARE was the first project of its kind in Djibouti and was designed to provide technical assistance
and training over a three year period to help the government implement its economic reform program and
build local capacity for macroeconomic management in the future. The critical need for capacity building
for economic management was identified in various economic concept notes as the CAS was not prepared
at the time.

         Objective

The overall objective of the Project was to assist the Government of Djibouti to implement its economic
reform program between 1997 and 2000. The project was designed to support capacity building in



                                                      - 2 -

technical areas related to macroeconomic reforms, budgetary adjustments, public administration reform and
integration of ex-combatants. Specifically, the project was supposed to provide the expertise necessary to
help with policy formulation and programming reforms while providing close monitoring of the
implementation of the reform program tied closely to the structural adjustment program initiated by the
IMF and the World Bank.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There were no formal revisions of project objectives of assisting the Government of Djibouti to implement
economic reform program. During the course of implementation and as a result of the approval of the
Fiscal Consolidation Project, the activities of the project were refocused to assist in the execution of the
program supported by the above mentioned adjustment loan.

3.3 Original Components:

Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Monitoring (US$2.12 million): This component supported
government's decision-making on macroeconomic reforms by assisting the coordination unit SAP
Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee (SAP-ISC) to monitor macroeconomic indicators, analyze progress
and the impact of specific reforms, recommend reform programs and implement communications agenda.
The implementing agency for the SAP-ISC was SAP Monitoring Cell (SMC) located in the Ministry of
Finance and National Economy (MFNE). The project supported the function of the SMC: establishment of
a monitoring framework for the reform program, data and information gathering and production of
complementary studies with recommendations to the SAP-ISC.

This component was designed to support services of an international macroeconomic advisor responsible
for elaborating a monitoring framework for the SAP and ensuring that that the SMC obtains the necessary
data on the economy. Additional duties involved contracting short-term expertise to undertake specialized
studies and formulate recommendations to the inter-ministerial committee (a) oversee the preparation of the
communications strategy; (b) oversee the implementation of other project components including the PE
reform; (c) institutional reform; and (d) demobilization of ex-combatants. The advisor also had to ensure
the training of the national counterpart to eventual transfer of responsibilities to local staff. A
communication strategy designed to mobilize public opinion and improve dialogue among the key actors
responsible for the implementation of the SAP was envisioned under this component. The national advisor
supported by short-term international communication specialists were recruited to supervise this function.
Additionally, the component envisioned provisioning of equipment needed for effective operation of the
coordinating and supervisory units.

Institutional Reform (US$ 1.50 million). This component supported government's efforts to devise a
strategy to reduce a wage bill and pave the way for a comprehensive reform of public administration. The
component envisioned an institutional assessment of the entire public administration and more precise
individual studies on key government agencies. A large portion of this component was also going to be
devoted to training of senior government officials. The senior officials to be selected for training had to be
highly involved in the institutional assessment process but also had included representatives from private
sector and civil society. The recommendations of the assessment were going to be considered by the
implementation committee which then had to recommend the action plan to be submitted to government for
approval. This component supported specific short-term expertise tied to the medium-term agenda plan,
specifically (a) assistance with the review of public administration and administrative assignments; (b)
training and seminars for government officials involved with economic management and public
administration reform; (c) strengthening of the training institute for government officials in Djibouti



                                                      - 3 -

(INAP).

Public Enterprise (PE) Reform and Privatization (US$2.05 million). This component supported
government's intentions to modify the legal and institutional framework for governing public enterprises. It
also provided assistance with identifying specific measures to improve the management of the public
enterprise portfolio and develop and analyze a divestiture program. It was to identify and present
arrangements for settlement of cross-debts. A Public Enterprise Monitoring Unit (PEMU) was to be
created within the SMC and given responsibility for implementation of this particular component. Training
and equipment provision was also envisioned under this component.

Armed Forces Demobilization (US$0.94 million). This component was designed to support government's
efforts to demobilize its armed forces. The support was going to come mostly in terms of short-term
expertise: (a) the set up of demobilization discharge unit together with smaller regional offices; (b) the
establishment of transparent financial procedures for the demobilization process; (c) the preparation of an
orientation program and monitoring the situation of demobilized soldiers. Some modest amount of
equipment support was also going to be provided.

3.4 Revised Components:

There were no formal revisions of the project components. However, the activities were further refocused
and tied to the agenda of the Fiscal Consolidation Credit after FCC was approved in 2001. Specifically,
activities were focused much more on parametric reform of the pension system than what was envisioned
under the original design.

The credit agreement was amended once in 1998 when the procurement arrangements were changed. There
were also three extensions to the project. The MTR for this project was planned but not carried out despite
the fact that the project's under-performance at the time of originally scheduled review.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

In retrospect, the quality of entry is rated as unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

l The scope of the project was too broad given the limited of capacity available on the ground.
    Originally, the project aimed to provide technical assistance in parallel to assist several fundamental
    cross cutting institutional reform initiatives, and in the process encompassed a large part of the core
    central government. It addressed short-term macroeconomic adjustment measures but also a wide
    variety of second generation reforms such as institutional reform and public enterprise restructuring.

    While this is a model that is frequently used in providing technical assistance, it is likely to succeed
    only in the event that there is a basic capacity on the ground to absorb the assistance provided. That
    was not present across government, and this greatly affected the ability of the project to deliver on its
    promises.

l The activities were poorly sequenced, spreading the little capacity even thinner.                  It was
    understandable to have PATARE address problems in capacity building that spread accross key
    bottlenecks, however, in retrospect, the weakness to precisely outline sequencing of the reforms and
    prioritize the areas where the expertise is needed most put the overall project in jeopardy. Though
    recognized as necessary, reforms in the areas of public sector reform and PE restructuring needed to be



                                                      - 4 -

    integrated better with other measures envisioned by the project.

l The project lacked appropriate policy underpinning. PATARE was approved in 1997 independently
    from an adjustment operation which clearly identified a program and committed the government to it.
    As a result activities that were undertaken often lacked focus. An adjustment operation - the Fiscal
    Consolidation Project -     was subsequently approved in 2001.            The presence of such operation,
    invigorated the Technical Assistance project and positively affected its implementation.

l Not enough preparatory work was done to alleviate the potential implementation problems
    associated with weak capacity. Despite the acknowledgment of the weak capacity, no PHRD grant
    was prepared, no work to inform the Djiboutian counterparts on the tasks of procurement, financial
    management, drafting of terms of reference. The Government's capacity to absorb even the most basic
    TA was underestimated. Having little experience with the procurement guidelines of the Bank and IDA,
    Djibouti was unprepared to conduct even the simplest requests for assistance. This basic unfamiliarity,
    while anticipated, was underestimated.

l The difficulty of inter-agency cooperation in project design was not taken into account. In Djibouti,
    one of the major problems affecting efficient undertaking of government activities was the difficulty in
    interagency cooperation. There were strong inter-ministerial rivalries as well as as frictions emanating
    from a post-conflict situation. The complext political and sectarian environment emerging from that
    period required special attention to implementation arrangements, which could ensure harmonious
    cooperation. This did not occur in the case of PATARE, where one ministry was given responsibility
    and control over the project and the allocation of funds. Moreover, the project sought to create new
    complex cross-cutting institutions - which ultimately failed to function - instead complicating project
    management. The difficulties with governmental fragmentation could have been addressed better in the
    design phase.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of objectives is rated unsatisfactory.

The ICR concludes that the project objective - namely to assist the Government of Djibouti to implement its
economic reform program, and to support Government decision making related to macro-economic reform
and their associated policies and programming framework - were not met.

On the whole, the project provided the Government of Djibouti very limited technical assistance, both in
terms of quantity and quality, despite a very large capacity requirements widespread within the public
sector. This was in part due to the Government's lack of commitment to the agreed reform agenda -
especially in the early stages of the project's life, but it is also due to the lack of precise identification and
sequencing of actionable activities. Having little analytical support, the Bank initiated a highly complex
and multi-faceted TA operation in a country where it lacked leverage and support.

In 2000 Djibouti left the Africa region and joined the Middle East and North Africa region of the World
Bank. This coincided with renewed government interest in undertaking significant institutional reforms and
provided for an improved environment for meaningful policy dialogue.                   As a result, the Fiscal
Consolidation Credit (FCC) and the IMF's PRGF provided an important policy framework for reform.
The preparation and background work required for these operations provided for more efficient targetting



                                                       - 5 -

of technical assistance, especially in support for key reforms such as the pension system, arrears clearance
and improved budget management, moreover, it provided the background for a successful operation.

However, this is only a small proportion of the overall program of assistance envisaged by the project. The
overall impact of the operation is considered to be minimal.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Monitoring.

Unsatisfactory

This component was designed to support government's efforts to monitor and direct its economic reform
program. The long term technical assistance initially benefited from the presence of a macro-economic
advisor which assisted the local staff of the economic monitoring unit to oversee their tasks for about a year
following the project approval. The impact of such assistance was marginal. This is due to the fact that the
institution which it was supposed to support, the Ministry of Finance and National Economy (MFNE)
remains dysfunctional, paralized and has had little impact in the overall conduct of economic activity in
Djibouti.

The original project had anticipated that such support would be focused on a new economic monitoring unit
headed by the MFNE and encompassing thirteen different ministries and agencies. This monitoring unit did
not materialize as planned. An alternative coordination unit set up within the prime-minister's office is
plagued by the lack of cooperation among the various government agencies and ministries. Since 2000 it
met only a few times and seems to lack the ability to monitor and direct economic policy-making within the
government. A lower level coordinating unit was set up within the MFNE but this unit is mainly concerned
with day-to-day technical issues and has little authority over the broad course of economic policy in the
country. Since the inter-ministerial committee was basically dysfunctional, analyses for policy reforms
were conducted by individual ministries and agencies. As a result, very little was achieved in terms of
building consensus between different stakeholders on the overall reform agenda.

The short-term technical assistance successfully assisted a narrow but important set of reform elements,
especially those associated with the program under review in the context of the Fiscal Consolidation
project. The two major positive outcomes of this component was the audit of state arrears and the support
for pension reform study. The government now has a clear view of the total budgetary arrears estimated at
US$ 163 mln dollars. The study on arrears was followed by a cabinet decision to set up a strategy to tackle
the arrears within a ten year period. This program is currently on course. The pension reform supported
through FCC was another successful element of the reform program. PATARE supported analytical work
preceding implementation of the parametric reform which incrementally reduced the pension benefits of
employees and eliminated double-dippers, thus freeing the government from the excessive burden of the
pension bill. In addition to assistance to tackle arrears and pensions, PATARE was responsible for
planning, identification and eventual creation two additional departments within the MFNE. The statistical
directorate within the MFNE received technical assistance to track and evaluate the CPI index and other
macroeconomic indicators. Additionally, a new directorate responsible for relations with international
financial institutions was formed and staffed through the support of PATARE. This directorate regularly
produces a bulletin on the state of the Djiboutian economy which is a helpful reference for international
investors doing business with the country. Finally, the project improved the regulation of the insurance
sector, supported the drafting of a new law and improved opportunities for private investment.




                                                     - 6 -

Despite these achievements, it is important to note the project's resources were not utilized to address other
important goals of the project such as public finance structure, procurement of public goods, commercial
bank audits, communication strategy and budget rationalization - which had been highlighted as important
target elements of the overall reform program to be assisted by PATARE. These areas would have
benefited from a detailed review and corresponding training, yet none were provided. While these are
important achievements, the projects envisioned a much broader scope of TA.

Institutional Reform

Unsatisfactory

The project performed unsatisfactorily in creating the basic capacity to address issues of public
administration reform and improved budget management. Between 1997 and 2000, an initial institutional
assessment of public administration was undertaken with the assistance of international experts, and an
action plan was later developed. However, it was much narrower in scope than originally envisioned.
Moreover, there was no follow up to the actual provision of assistance for the design of the study. As a
result much of the work undertaken under comprehensive review has now grown obsolete and the work
undertaken has provided no visible impact to Djibouti's public administration. Studies for individual
ministries were planned but ultimately not completed.

Most of the capacity building which was financed under this component took the form of out of state study
tours, and this was only provided for a very restricted number of public servants. For example, PATARE
financed a seminar on education reform in Paris for nine government officials involved in finance, gender
and education fields. However, no follow up on the effect of this training on performance is available which
precluded the ICR team from assessing the success of this particular training program. A comprehensive
joint program, to take place within the auspices of the project with Canadian Public Administration
Institute, INAP, was abandoned as a result of administrative difficulties in setting it up. Despite
agency-level demands for training, the portion allocated for capacity training was reduced by the
government by 75 percent and later cancelled altogether due to the lack of cross-sectoral cooperation.
Overall, capacity training component made little impact on Djiboutian institutions.

FCC provided the opportunity for some achievements under this component. A PATARE financed pension
study evaluated the effects of the parametric reform and helped to create a single filing system for all
employees. A series of changes culminated in the reduction of annuity rates, the prohibition of multiple
pensions and introduction of a 15 percent withholding tax at source. The reform was adopted by the
Djibouti National Assembly in 2002. Without the preliminary work undertaken under the PATARE, the
restructuring of the country's near bankrupt pension system would not have been possible. The project also
supported the merging of financial data and the employment files. It allowed the government to have a full
assessment of all employees covered by the budget. Though the creation of a single file system and support
for pension reform represent tangible achievements, they do not create an adequate support for initiation of
rationalization of the public administration and the reform of the public sector.

Public Enterprise Reform

Unsatisfactory.

The Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Component is rated unsatisfactory. While this component
supported production of high quality audits of the three major public enterprises in Djibouti which in some
instances led to divestiture of smaller ineffective firms. A comprehensive privatization program was also


                                                     - 7 -

produced. However, on the whole, neither the audits nor the program were adequately followed through.

The ICR team is not able to conclude that any significant changes have occurred in management controls or
improved performance of the water and electricity sectors as a result of these studies. Moreover, while
Djibouti has conducted some form of privatization of its most prized assets - namely Djibouti airport and
port - and these entities no longer represent a budgetary burden for the government, they have not followed
the recommendations of the studies. Instead, the granting of management contracts to international investor
(Dubai Port International) have been carried out in an untransparent fashion and have undermined the
credibility of the privatization process.    In sum, there is little evidence that the activities financed by the
project have led to a fundamentally different approach to governance of public enterprises in Djibouti.

The public enterprise reform component suffered from the lack of ownership and commitment. The
proposed specialized unit for monitoring PE reform PEMU (Public Enterprise Monitoring Unit) within the
implementation committee was not formed. A lack of coordinating organ hampered cooperation between the
MFNE, the implementing agency and the individual public enterprises. As an alternative, the government
named a director of the privatization unit within the MFNE who was called to oversee any future
privatization plans. The director participated in a training seminar in Dakar devoted to privatization of
water, electricity, and telecom however there is little evidence of the actual work done by this unit. Overall,
the financial evaluation of the current transactions of these firms and a final audit of assets was conducted
but it appears that these audits had little impact on the actual oversight of these public enterprises.
Demobilization of Ex Combatants

Satisfactory

Under this component the office responsible for integration for ex-combatants was formed. The office was
computerized and adequately staffed for the initiation of the program of de-mobilization of 8,500 former
combatants. The regional offices were also formed to initiate reintegration of combatants in rural areas.
However no pre-discharge orientation and training program was established. Overall this small highly
targeted program provided an adequate link for the initiation of the EU sponsored program for
demobilization. However, the actual demobilization program had a difficult time completing its task and
was eventually cancelled for circumstances beyond the control of the PATARE implementation team. The
de-mobilization of ex-combatants was the focus of a separate project financed by the Bank. It was a very
sensitive area initially, and remains so today.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


PATARE had a modest institutional development impact. It supported reforms in key areas such as
restructuring of the MFNE, strengthening the Directorate of the Economy and the creation of new
directorates in statistics and external relations and economy which supported the government's capacity in
managing the macroeconomic issues. The project was successful in modernizing the pension system and
getting the pension bill under control. There is evidence to suggest that achievements in these areas could be



                                                       - 8 -

sustained.

However, the project failed to support a more comprehensive institutional development strategy for the civil
service in general, and it is not obvious that the positive developments in terms of privatization of the
airport and port or the rationalization of wage bill and audit of arrears represent sustainable institutional
development in the long run. There was no systematic rationalization of the wage bill, and the training
programs had made only a marginal impact on a select group of civil servants.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Continuous regional instability, and especially the revenue windfall resulting from Ethiopia's switch of
shipment from Assab in Eritrea to Djibouti in mid-1998 due to armed conflict in the region had serious
fiscal implications on the budget and ultimately, on the government's perspective towards the overall reform
program. The switch of trans-shipments gave the government a new revenue stream. It did not however
improve government's stance towards the reform program, but on the opposite, allowed the government to
delay the implementation of the most difficult components that are essential for long-term sustainability of
the program.

The drought and the cholera outbreak also negatively affected government's capacity to stay in control of
the situation when the long-term reform initiatives were put on hold to resolve the impending crisis. Finally,
the war in Iraq and a political dependence on the major international powers which use Djibouti's strategic
location for security reasons impacted the sustainability of the modest development results achieved under
PATARE.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The slow implementation in 1998, 1999 and 2000 was due in part to the government's inability to
coordinate the work of its various agencies. The government did not utilize the participatory approach to
project implementation envisioned under the original design. Instead it concentrated most of the
coordinating power within the MFNE. As a result many of the actors originally identified as the
beneficiaries of the project were left out. The authorities also underestimated the need for capacity building
programs and were left at a loss when it came to implementing complex technical projects such as
privatization of public enterprises and macroeconomic management.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The PIU's technical competency was improved significantly throughout the life of the project. The office is
adequately equipped and effectively managed by local staff. It is now capable of managing multi-sectoral
development project. However, the drawback is that the office is not well positioned to share its expertise
with the rest of Djiboutian civil service as it remains separated from other agencies. The PIU may benefit
from greater decentralization of its activity and sharing of responsibility with individual ministries outside
of the MFNE.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original loan amount was US$ 6.5 million. US$ 5.5 million was disbursed. The credit was made
at the IDA standard variable interest rate, a 10 year grace period with a term of 40 years.


                                                      - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of PATARE is rated unlikely.

The capacity built in various agencies of the government will not be sustained in large part because the
reform initiatives that they supported were either too small to be effective in the long run or they were
implemented in a time of low demand for institutional change.

In the case of financial audits of public enterprises for example, the lack of a transparent legal framework
for governing of public enterprises means that the inefficiencies in governing the PEs will not be eliminated
in the near future. The new committee set up to present modern accounting standards have yet to produce
any substantial results.

The capacity built under the macro-economic reform initiatives such as the improved functioning of the
statistical sector and the establishment of a new directorates responsible for the oversight of insurance
service regulation are more likely to be sustained. The same can be said about the pension reform. While
these measures represent a genuine government commitment to reform, they remain too small to make a
significant imprint on improving technical capacity to manage reforms.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The government did not institutionalize training and capacity building programs within its agencies. The
current budgetary arrangements are too dependent on external rents and cannot be considered sustainable to
produce good budgetary performance in the long run.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory.

While the project correctly identified the problems facing Djibouti in the aftermath of the Civil War, and
carefully linked the components to the actions and interventions of the UNDP and the IMF, it was overly
ambitious in its form especially because the corresponding structural adjustment operation was absent at
the time. By approving the PATARE independently of the an adjustment operation or an otherwise
specified credible policy framework, the nature, the rationale and the implementation arrangements which
were envisioned lost their rationality and effectiveness. It is therefore significant to note that the
performance improved dramatically once the FCC was approved. Without PATARE's assistance the
achievements of the FCC would not have been possible.

The design also did not adequately take into account the complex political economy environment in the
aftermath of civil war. It provided for a complex, multi-faceted program working on parallel tracks to
assist in macroeconomic stabilization, rationalization of wages and pensions, privatization, and public
sector reform. This was a tall order in any environment, which in many instances had to be undertaken
sequentially given the difficulty of the task and the general lack of commitment on the part of the recepient.




                                                      - 10 -

One of the major causes for the delays in implementation and the inability of the program to achieve its
objectives was due to different government agencies not cooperating with each other. The Bank's initial
assessment of the situation called for a participatory approach but it did not establish an adequate
framework for inter-agency cooperation and coordination of the program, and nor was it able to adequately
prepare the recipients of aid for navigating the procedural complexity of the Bank procurement guidelines.
As a result, many of the initial initiatives were delayed or not implemented at all.

7.2 Supervision:

Unsatisfactory.

There are two periods in supervision ­ the first from 1997 to 2000 and the second period from 2000 to
2003.

The first period of supervision was characterized by slow disbursement and generally slow progress on the
ground. This period of supervision was also characterized by frequent changes in task management.
Records of mission supervision for this period are scarce.

While, the frequency of mission supervision could be considered adequate in a more functional
environment, the lack of capacity which was carefully identified in the mission documents, should have
resulted in more frequent supervision and a systematic follow up of the component implementation. There
were three task managers in the first three years of implementation. The frequent changes in task
management, while dictated in part by the change of Regional Department for Djibouti, created some
additional difficulties in the cooperation between the PIU and the Bank. Each task manager has a different
style, and tended to approach the challenges of project implementation somewhat differently. Consistency
was sometimes lost. For example, in drafting terms of reference for the privatization program in the early
stages of project implementation, the Bank's assistance failed to be continuous and efficient.

No Mid-Term Review was undertaken for this project, even though it seems the poor performance in the
first period of implementation should have certainly warranted a careful and thorough review of project
objectives, activities and financial allocations, and could have perhaps benefited from a narrowing of the
project scope or even a cancellation.

There is a second period of supervision coinciding with the transfer of the Djibouti portfolio to the MNA
region, and directly corrolated with the approval and the implementation of the Fiscal Consolidation Credit
(FCC). The FCC, a policy-based operation reviewed by a separate ICR, achieved its development
objectives thanks, in large part, to the technical assistance capacity building and studies financed by the
PATARE.

Predictably, under these cirsumstances PATARE dramatically improved disbursement and successfully
supported the goverment's policy framework in this second period of implementation.

Finally, the project was granted three sepaerate year long extensions, nearly doubling the project length
from its original implementation period. No attempt was made, in those instances to further define some
implementation objectives to provide it with some indication of overall progress towards development
objectives. This in effect, did not facilitate the work of determining whether additional extensions of the
project were warranted.




                                                      - 11 -

Given the shortcomings of the first period of implementation, the abscence of a mid-term review and the
failure to redefine the project objectives prior to extending the loans, the ICR concludes that supervision is
unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory based on lending and supervision ratings.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Unsatisfactory. The government expressed an energetic commitment to receive TA in the identification and
appraisal phase, and throughout prior to the approval of PATARE. However, it provided little guidance for
the PIU and was unable to adequately involve all the potential beneficiary agencies which were ultimately
not ready to absorb or even request the TA provided through the project. The government did not elaborate
a sustainable reform program when the project began.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Unsatisfactory. It is extremely difficult to implement a technical assistance project without a commitment
to a long-term structural reform strategy. This uncertain political commitment and bureaucratic resistance
to reform made implementation difficult from the start. Throughout the project life the government failed to
improve coordination of its various agencies, especially in regards to improving the communication
between the PIU (located within the Ministry of Finance and National Economy) and the beneficiary
agencies.

The support of the Ministry of Finance for the project components varied dramatically with each successive
minister. No single consistent policy for program implementation was elaborated. The government was also
not able to take advantage of a beneficial external environment such as the revenue windfall resulting from
Ethiopia's decision to switch transshipments from Assab to Djibouti to speed up the project
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Satisfactory. The PIU's technical competency was improved significantly throughout the life of the
project. The office is adequately equipped and effectively managed by local staff. It is now capable of
managing complex multi-sectoral development project and share its expertise with the rest of the Djiboutian
civil service. The PIU may benefit from greater decentralization of its activity and sharing of responsibility
with individual ministries outside of the MFNE. The implementation team performed well even though the
overall government's commitment to the reform agenda wavered.

Some issues should be raised with the procurement practices especially with the case of single sourcing a
consulting firm IEM-ACTUARIA. The firm was initially contracted to do a quick diagnostic study of the
pension system but was later granted contracts on the basis of single sourcing. Under the pressure from the
cabinet, the team reserved to excessive practice of single sourcing for the selection of a particular firm for
amounts of contract that should be open to competition.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                      - 12 -

Overall the Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


l A TA project provides little support without a clearly outlined Structural Adjustment program
    and strong government ownership. The support provided through technical assistance has to be
    integrated directly with the government reform program. Without a consistent program and government
    commitment to such program, the value of technical assistance is diluted rendering the sustainability
    benefits gained through the project components questionable. The performance of a TA project may
    improve dramatically when a well-designed structural adjustment program is introduced.

l A TA project in a country with a low institutional capacity should be small and directed to fewer
    activities. The coverage for technical assistance spread across too many unrelated activities results in
    delays and low implementation effectiveness. This is especially pertinent to countries with low
    institutional capacity to implement ambitious long-term requirements for capacity building. Technical
    assistance should be directed to satisfying a few short-term needs. Alternatively, a project focused on a
    set of pilot reform initiatives that are implemented and then disseminated to other parts of the
    government may be better suited for countries with low capacity.

l Cross-institutional participation and collaboration should be avoided if the political economy of
    the country receiving TA precludes effective cooperation. The design of cross-institutional
    participation has to take into account the political economy of the country. The unfamiliarity with a
    highly divided nature of the political system aggravates the already low management capacity. In
    hindsight, cross-agency and cross-ministerial arrangements need to be avoided if the country's political
    environment renders such arrangements mostly ineffective.

l The Bank needs to provided more on the ground support for TA projects in low-income
    countries. The Bank needs to take a good stock of capacity deficiency of low-income countries. In
    addition to providing a more to more extensive support during project implementation stage, effective
    consensus building and dialogue requires that a client receives support prior to the project approval. As
    this was the first loan of its kind, the unfamiliarity of the country with the Bank's processes and
    guidelines complicated the already weak management capacity of some government agencies and
    ministries.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

 Directeur du Financement Extérieur
 Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances
 BP 10014 DJIBOUTI

In terms of project execution, the first lesson that we can draw is that the PATARE
could be considered to be largely unsuccessful. In a general sense, its failure is not
necessarily an issue of implementation, but rather due to design flaws and the
definition of eligible activities under the project. The project was conceived in the
context of macroeconomic reforms in order to assist the authorities in the


                                                      - 13 -

implementation of such reforms. However, the immediate needs of the Government of
Djibouti at that time were of a different nature (IT equiment, vehicles, furniture, etc).
This gap between the perceived needs of the concerned agencies and the activities to be
financed under the project led to misunderstandings, frustration and apprehension vis
a vis the project.

Starting 2001, when the Government began to take a more focused approach to
structural reforms (pension reform, insurance reform, and privatization), PATARE's
reputation and utility became more obvious and the project's reputation consequently
improved. In other words, there is a timing gap between the needs of the country and
the assistance which was offered by PATARE.

It would be erroneous to assume that the failure of the PATARE to meet its
development objectives denotes the lack of need for technical assistance projects in
Djibouti. A more accurate conclusion would be to recommend to the World Bank, as
well as other donors, projects which better identify the assistance to be given, in terms
of the sectors which are to be addressed, and which do not address subject
multisectoral activities.       Several reforms supported by the PATARE deserve to be
further sustained since they are of the utmost importance on the economic development
of the country (privatization, and pension reform, for example).



(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A.




                                              - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
SAP Monitoring

-Close monitoring of Government's              Continued support with the national statistical This objective was only partially achieved in
performance, impact and trend analyses         office, and compilation and audtis of arrears; the sense that the CAPAS did not work; and
performed.                                     support for PRSP preparation                    reports were produced in an ah doc manner
                                                                                               at the request of donors. The inter-ministerial
                                                                                               commitee was basically dysfunctional;
                                                                                               quarterly reports were not produced.
-Analyses and proposals for policies and       Continued monitoring of reforms through         Since the Inter-ministerial committee in
reforms.                                       CAPAS, publishing of various economic and charge of reforms did not work, such
                                               trade reports                                   analyses were done by line ministries and/or
                                                                                               agency (such as the pension funds)
                                                                                               concerned under the overall
                                                                                               coordination/agreement with the Ministry of
                                                                                               Finance.
-Elaboration and implementation of a           Carry out communication activities, facilitate  At the end of project implementation, very
communication strategy to create awareness seminars, publications and training.                little was achieved in terms of communication
and understanding of the reform agenda.                                                        and consensus building with key
                                                                                               stakeholders (i.e. pension payees and
                                                                                               beneficiaries, line ministries concerned with
                                                                                               privatization, etc..)
Institutional Reform

-Civil service salaries rationalised.          Continued support with the areas of financial Some progress was made; but the burden of
                                               accountability and goverance (Chamber of        the wage bill is still high and unsustainable.
                                               Public Accounts) and that of budgetary and      The results of recent social dialogue may
                                               treasury management.                            point to future increase in the wage bill.
-Strategy and action plan for civil service    Develop an action plan; support integration of An overall strategy for a comprehensive
reform approved and implemented.               civil servant database.                         reform of the civil service was never
                                                                                               approved, nor implemented. An audit of the
                                                                                               payroll files; and its merger with that of the
                                                                                               personnel files were completed. In that
                                                                                               sense, some progress was achieved.
Public Enterprise Reform

-Public enterprises divested and decision on Audit and evaluation of the four main public      Public enterprises reform and privatization is
major public enterprises taken in line with an enterprises; divestiture and privatization      an area where the least progress was made
approved strategy and action plan.             on-going.                                       as compared to original objectives. No major
                                                                                               entity was priviatized with the help of the
                                                                                               project; however, audits were done for three
                                                                                               public enterprises.
Demobilization

-Demobilisation (this component will be                                                        The demobilization of ex-combatants was a
transfered to the Reintegration Project)                                                       very sensitive area then; and it remains very
                                                                                               much so today. Very little was achieved
                                                                                               under the project (waiver under the Fiscal
                                                                                               Consolidation Credit).




                                                                  - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
SAP Reform Monitoring                                                    2.12                 2.65                  125
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization                               2.05                 1.72                   84
Institutional Reform                                                     1.49                 0.26                   17
Armed Forces Demobilization                                              0.94                 0.73                   78

Total Baseline Cost                                                      6.60                 5.36
 Physical Contingencies                                                  0.73                                      81.7
                            Total Project Costs                          7.33                 5.36
                    Total Financing Required                             7.33                 5.36


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               4.92             0.00              4.92
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (4.92)           (0.00)             (4.92)
2. Goods                                0.29               0.16               0.00             0.00              0.45
                                       (0.29)             (0.16)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.45)
3. Services                             0.00               0.03               1.92             0.00              1.95
                                       (0.00)             (0.03)             (1.23)           (0.00)             (1.26)
   Total                                0.29               0.19               6.84             0.00              7.32
                                       (0.29)             (0.19)             (6.15)           (0.00)             (6.63)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00              2.43             0.00              2.43
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.43)            (0.00)           (2.43)
2. Goods                                0.72               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.72
                                       (0.72)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.72)
3. Services                             0.00               1.18              1.03             0.00              2.21
                                       (0.00)             (1.18)            (1.03)            (0.00)           (2.21)
   Total                                0.72               1.18              3.46             0.00              5.36
                                       (0.72)             (1.18)            (3.46)            (0.00)           (5.36)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                       - 16 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
        Component             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.     IDA       Govt.       CoF.  IDA    Govt.   CoF.
SAP Reform Monitoring     2.12                           2.65                        125.0
Public Enterprise Reform  2.05                           1.72                        83.9
and Privatization
Institutional Reform      1.50                           0.26                        17.3
Armed Forces              0.94                           0.73                        77.7
Demobilization
Total Costs              6604.40                        5397.11                      81.7




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/16/1995                2    TTL (1); Public ent. specialist (1)



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/17/1996                5    TM (1); Operations analyst
                                              (1); Public enterprise
                                              specialist (1), Consultant (2).

 Supervision

               09/27/1997                 5   TTL (1); Financial specialist (1);      S               S
                                              PE reform (1); Economist (2);
               11/19/1998                 3   Team leader (1); Snr. public            U               U
                                              enterpr. sp. (1); Economist (1)
               06/18/1999                 3   TTL (1); Privatization (1);             U               U
                                              Consultant(1)
               02/05/2000                 1   TL (1)                                  U               U
               06/16/2000                 3   TL (1); Operations analyst (1);         U               U
                                              Consultant (1); Economist(1)
               06/27/2001                 2   TM (1); Mission leader                  U               U
               04/07/2002                 2   TM (1); Mission leader (1)              S               S
               10/27/2002                 3   Mission leader (1); Task team           S               S
                                              leader (1); Support (1)


 ICR
               20/04/2004                2     TTL (1); Public                        U               U
                                               management consultant (1)

TM: Task Manager; TTL: Task Team Leader; TL: Team Leader

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                             100,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                   50,000
  Supervision                                                            360,000
  ICR                                                                     25,000
  Total                                                                  535,000




                                               - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Bulletin D'Information Economique, Republique De Djibouti, 2003.

Program Document for a Proposed Credit of SDR 4.6 Million to the Republic of Djibouti, December 18,
1997.

Project Development Credit Agreement, March 27, 1997.

Project Progress Reports (Project File).

Back to Office Reports, including Mission Aide-Memoires.




                                                - 22 -

- 23 -

