Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6996-DJI
TECHNICAL ANNEXES
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO SUPPORT
ECONOMIC REFORM PROJECT
December 18, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of September 30, 1996
Currency Unit               Djibouti Franc (FDJ)
US$1.00             =       177 FDJ
FDJ100              =       US$0.0056
US$1.00             =       SDR1.4362
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DINAS          -     Bureau of Statistics
EC             -     European Community
ENAP           -     Ecole nationale d'administration publique
IA             -     Institutional Assessment
INAP           -     Institut national d'administration publique
MFNE           -     Ministry of Finance and National Economy
MPSAR                Ministry of Public Service and Administrative Reform
OED            -     Operations Evaluation Department
PEMU           -     Public Enterprise Monitoring Unit
SAP            -     Structural Adjustment Program
SAP-ISC        -     Structural Adjustment Program Interministerial Steering
Committee
SMC            -     Structural Adjustment Program Monitoring Cell
TA             -     Technical Assistance
UNDP           -     United Nations Development Program
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:        Callisto Madavo, AFR
Country Director:      Harold Wackman, AFC05
Technical Manager:     Roger Sullivan, AFTII
Task Team Leader       Denyse Morin, AFTII



TABLE OF CONTENT
SECTION  A ...............................................                                                    1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................... 1
Background ............................................... 1
Overall and Institutional Framework ...............................................                  2
Project Objectives ............................................... 5
Project Components ...............................................                                   6
Structural Adjustment Program  (SAP) Monitoring .................................... 6
Institutional Reform ...............................................                       9
Public Enterprise Reform  and Privatization (PE) ..................................... 12
Armed Forces Demobilization ...............................................               15
Conditions of Credit ...............................................                               16
Risks ...............................................                                               17
SECTIONB ...............................................                                                     17
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMLEMENTATION .................................. ............. 17
Project Coordination ...............................................                                17
Project Administration ...............................................                              18
Reporting, Monitoring and Accountability ...............................................             19
Procurement ...............................................                                        20
Disbursements ............................................... 21
Accounts and Audits ............................................... 21
Mid-Term  Review ...............................................                                   22
Development of Local Capacity ...............................................                      22
ANNEXES
Schedule 1           Gantt Chart
Schedule 2           Training Plan
Schedule 3           Detailed Project Costs
Attachment 1  Work Breakdown Structure and Logical Framework Analysis
Attachment 2    List of Public Enterprises
Attachment 3         Organizational Project Chart
Attachment 4   SAP/ISC Members
Attachment 5    Performance Monitoring Indicators






REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO SUPPORT ECONOMIC
REFORM PROJECT
SECTION A
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1.    Djibouti's economy is very vulnerable due to its lack of diversity. As it has no
known natural resources, permanent waterways, nor a significant manufacturing base, and
considering its limited agricultural potential, the economy rests solely on the following
four pillars:
(a)   Strategic location of its port used as: (i) a re-exporting center; (ii) supply
center for transiting freighters; and (iii) a French naval base;
(b)   French military base of approximately 2,300 soldiers;
(c)   French budgetary support including the presence of a large number of
French cooperants throughout the country; and
(d)   Stability of the Djiboutian Franc (FDJ) which enabled the development of
banking activities and regional-type insurance.
2.    These pillars gave birth to large state-owned enterprises (port, airport, railway,
water, electricity and telecommunications); private enterprises related to transit activities
(import and export) and to a large, resident French community; and a public service of
approximately 8,000 positions. The GNP per inhabitant (US$770) puts Djibouti among
the middle-income countries whereas its social indicators place it among the least
developed countries: life expectancy of 50 years, literacy rate of 40 percent, women's
mortality rate of 740 per 100,000 and unemployment estimated between 40 and 70
percent.
3.    Since independence, the combination of these factors and persistent regional
instability fostered a public management framework lacking rigor. As long as the external
environment remained unchanged, serious financial repercussions were subdued. In 1992,
the situation started to deteriorate.



2
Overall and Institutional Framework
4.    In recent years, Djibouti's economic and financial performance has been suffering
from three external shocks:
(a)   The regional political situation greatly improved over the past three years
affecting adversely the port's activities: (i) reduced level of humanitarian
and military assistance to Somalia, Ethiopia and Eritrea; and (ii) the re-
opening of the ports of Assab (Eritrea) and Berbera (Somalia) increasing
the competition for Djibouti (tariffs, services, efficiency, etc.);
(b)   The domestic armed conflict (1991-1994) and an important influx of about
100,000 refugees (to a country with a population of 600,000) from
neighboring countries have required government to boost considerably its
military expenditures. More than 8,500 soldiers and police who remain to
be demobilized represent a wage bill of approximately FDJ 3.2 billion in
1995. With material costs, the total armed forces charge represented 15
percent of total domestic revenues; and
(c)   Reduction in budgetary transfers and French presence: direct budgetary
transfers, particularly from France, at about US$50-60 million per year
since independence, fell to US$43 million in 1993, US$24 million in 1994,
and US$27 million in 1995. In addition, there will be a substantial
reduction in the number of French coop6rants and military personnel by
1997 and this does not exclude possible further reductions by the end of
the decade.
5.    The decrease in revenues from external assistance, and declining port activities
coupled with a major increase in military spending have completely unbalanced the State's
accounts. It has also exposed the weaknesses of Djibouti's public sector management and
engendered perverse economic behavior. The wage bill reached 82 percent of domestic
revenues in 1995 and government's deficit decreased from US$112 million in 1992 to
US$58 million in 1995. By 1995, the deficit was essentially limited by the Government's
capacity to accumulate arrears, as the Government had largely depleted the cash position
of the more liquid public enterprises. With suppliers increasingly demanding payment in
advance, purchases of materials fell and the Government had begun accumulating arrears
on civil servant salaries. In 1992, the government financed the deficit through: arrears to
suppliers (1 percent), domestic borrowing (40 percent) and external financing (59 percent,
of which 88 percent were grants). In 1995 the situation had shifted dramatically: arrears
to suppliers increased to 24 percent, domestic borrowing was at 13 per cent and external
financing reached 65 percent of which 75 percent were grants. The stock of arrears which
accumulated between 1992 and 1995 is estimated at US$44 million. A more recent study
(June 1996) indicates that the total amount due by the State to public enterprises only is
about US$73 million.
6.    In 1995, the fiscal situation continued to be critical and expenditures remained high
owing to the weight of the wage bill. The adverse effects of these factors have been



3
compounded by an inadequate domestic policy response, deep-seated structural
weaknesses and cost rigidities. In the short term, it is essential that public finances be
stabilized. With fiscal receipts already relatively high and domestic borders essentially
uncontrollable, much of the deficit reduction effort must focus on the expenditure side.
7.    Policy discussions with the IMF were held with the understanding that, in the
absence of prompt and forceful adjustment and reform efforts backed by adequate external
financing, Djibouti faced further contraction of economic activity, unsustainable fiscal and
external imbalances, disorderly expenditure compression, and a further accumulation of
domestic and external arrears. The Djiboutian authorities' adjustment program is
predicated on regaining control of the fiscal situation in the short run and implementing
far-reaching, medium-term reforms to address the deeply embedded structural problems of
the economy. The medium-term strategy aims at returning the country to a more stable
macroeconomic environment while creating the conditions for the resumption of sustained
growth and employment, external payments viability, and poverty alleviation. The key
elements of the strategy are: (i) substantial financial policy-tightening with an emphasis on
prompt budgetary adjustment and restructuring; (ii) continued full adherence to the
principle of the present currency board arrangement; (iii) maintenance of a restriction-free
exchange and trade regime and prudent external debt policy; (iv) comprehensive structural
reforms to promote competitiveness and enhance the supply responsiveness of the
economy; (v) adequate concessional external financing to support the adjustment and
reform effort; and (vi) technical assistance to address the weakness of the macroeconomic
database and strengthen administrative and institutional capacity.
8.    The IMF and the Government have agreed on the content of a formal arrangement.
The stand-by agreement will continue for fourteen months starting April 1996 for an
amount of 4.6 million SDR, equivalent to approximately 40 percent of Djibouti's allocation
to the IMF. The agreement stipulates that two reviews are planned: (1) end of November
1996; and (2) end of February 1997. In addition to rationalization of public expenditures,
the program is ambitious and includes the following areas:
(a)   Economic Management Capacity. There is a need to continue reinforcing
fiscal management and the capacity to analyze, formulate, execute, and
monitor macroeconomic policies. To achieve meaningful progress in this
area, the authorities established the Structural Adjustment Program
Monitoring Cell (SMC) to monitor the implementation of the adjustment
policies and to act as the executing agency of the Structural Adjustment
Program Interministerial Steering Committee (SAP-ISC). It commenced
operations in November 1995, albeit with a small staff.
(b)   Public Enterprise (PE) Reform. The PEs are operating within a complex
institutional and legal framework characterized by a lack of coordination
with the parent ministries. The present legal regime includes constraining
and rigid labor laws which make it very difficult for the PEs to operate.
The State interferes with day-to-day operations (tariffs fixed by the State,
staff hiring, determination of salaries, etc.) of the PEs thus disrupting
operating conditions. In addition, owing to the severe financial crisis, the



4
Government of Djibouti does not pay its debts to the concerned PEs; the
State's arrears to the PEs after cross-debt compensation was FDJ 13 billion
as of December 1995. It used PE revenues to finance directly its own
budget and has forced some well-performing enterprises to fund others in
difficulty. The consequences have been: (i) weak technical performance
(poor services, high tariffs, low productivity, and high personnel costs); (ii)
variable financial performances, depending on the enterprise; (iii) a critical
financial structure (balance sheet); and (iv) considerable debts that some
cannot reimburse. Many of these PEs have weak management and are
plagued with some of the following problems: (i) they do not deliver
acceptable levels of service to clients; (ii) they conduct activities that do
not correspond with their original mandate; (iii) their accounts are not up-
to-date (some of them since 1992); (iv) they do not fulfill their income tax
obligations to the fiscal administration; and (v) they invest or borrow
without Government's approval.
(c)   Public Service Reform. The implementation of this reform aims at
ensuring a leaner and more efficient administration over the medium term.
However, little has been documented about the root causes of the public
service's problems. Djiboutian public servants are among the highest paid
in sub-Saharan Africa. In 1995, the wage bill was approximately 82 per
cent of its domestic revenues. The public service, overstaffed, is composed
of similar numbers of older, under-educated public servants and younger
French-university graduates with little practical experience. In addition,
there is a relatively large number of foreign technical assistants, essentially
French. As a result, government employment has been viewed as a
sinecure with Government as the employer of first resort for all university
graduates regardless of their areas of study. They receive no specific
training upon entering the service. In 1995, the Center for Administrative
Training was changed to the Institut national d'administration publique
(INAP), reflecting Government's recognition of the need to modernize and
strengthen its public service. The INAP is attached to the Ministry of
Public Service and Administrative Reform (MPSAR). The director and
trainers are public servants belonging to various ministries and enterprises.
They received training at the Ecole nationale d'administration publique
(ENAP) in Canada as part of a modest twinning arrangement, nearly
completed, and financed by Canada.
(d)   Armed Forces Demobilization Program. The Government assigns a high
priority to this measure which it sees as a means to reduce the overall level
of expenditure, and also to modify its structure by releasing resources that
could be redirected toward the provision of essential social services. The
program has been under discussion with IDA since mid-1995 and is
presently being finalized. It will cover the demobilization of about 8,500
defense and security personnel over an 18-24 month period. To finance
this program, the Djiboutian authorities have requested IDA to help find
the financial support which will determine the pace of the demobilization.



5
However, should donors not provide sufficient assistance, the authorities
have indicated their firm commitment to pursue the program on their own
at a pace which will accord with the rather meager resources available.
(e)   Social Safety Net Provisions. The authorities emphasized the need for a
safety net to mitigate the impact of adjustment on the most vulnerable
segments of the population, particularly given that many social indicators
are already low, and because of the projected effect of the planned
retrenchment of armed forces and security personnel. The French
Cooperation and UNDP have indicated that they will support labor-
intensive and income-generating interventions to assist with rehabilitation
and reconstruction activities. IDA is investigating the provision of
assistance through a social fund-type project.
9.    This adjustment program with the IMF requires that the authorities have the
knowledge and capacity to handle very specialized areas of reform. While there are a few
academically qualified young technicians, they have very little practical experience in
economic management and no experience and limited capacity in piloting and
implementing a program of economic reform. The Government of Djibouti requested
IDA's assistance to implement the structural reforms required by their program with the
IMF. They recognize the challenge and acknowledge that they need support to guide
them through the process. They also indicated that they wish to increase awareness of the
adjustment program, both internally and externally, and hope to enlist support from all
levels of their public society which is already experiencing the consequences of economic
decline. They recognize the need to formalize a communication strategy and action plan
to help create the conditions for the economic reform program to be well understood and
endorsed.
10.   The donors have expressed their interest in IDA coordinating external efforts
related to technical assistance in order to avoid duplication, and ensure a consistent
approach among themselves. France, the European Community and UNDP have been
fully involved in project preparation and the dialogue will be maintained during project
supervision. Close coordination of the efforts of all donors will be crucial to guarantee the
provision of complementary expertise and approaches, and to achieve maximum benefits
of the technical assistance (TA) to the Djiboutian administration. In particular, in light of
the importance of French TA, it will be essential to ensure that all TA is fully integrated by
the Djiboutian authorities in canying out their reform agenda. Joint supervision missions
are envisaged.
Project Objectives
11.   The Government's goal is to implement economic reforms between 1996 and
2000 thus creating a stable macroeconomic environment that will lead to economic growth
and employment, a sound external account and poverty alleviation. The project objective
is to assist the Government implement successfully its economic reform program. More
specifically, the project will support Government's decision-making related to
macroeconomic reforms and its policy framework. This will be done by providing the



6
expertise necessary to assist with policy formulation and related reforms, and supporting
close monitoring of the reform program's implementation.
12.   Given domestic capacity limitation, the project will require a significant level of
expatriate TA. The project is designed to provide immediate implementation support to
the Government of Djibouti to permit effective execution of its adjustment program.
Without this support, the economic reform program will almost certainly fail given the
limited local capacity. However, the project's success is intimately linked to the success of
the overall reform program. The project will facilitate but cannot guarantee successful
implementation of the program. While the project will focus on filling the expertise gaps
needed for successful implementation of the program, it is expected that, over time, it will
lead to improved local capacity.
Project Components
13.   The logical framework analyses for the four project components are included as
Attachment 1. They provide a complete synthesis of the project beginning with the
Government's goal, continuing to the inputs and critical assumptions for each component
to achieve its objective and assist the Government to reach its goal, and spelling out
performance indicators against which to monitor progress.
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Monitoring
14.   Background. The execution of the reform agenda is the responsibility of the SAP
Inter-Ministerial Committee (SAP-ISC) headed by the Minister of Finance and
encompassing thirteen ministries and agencies'. Its role is to formulate, for Cabinet's
approval, recommendations and proposals for economic reform. The SMC is the
executing agency of the SAP-ISC and the interface with the technical ministries and the
Bretton Woods institutions. The SMC, created in November 1995, is located in the
MFNE. A team of young technicians was selected for this group which is led by an
international macroeconomic adviser (from West Africa) and a national counterpart. The
adviser was brought in by the Government of Djibouti to help prepare the reform agenda
because Djibouti has no experience with structural adjustment and did not possess locally
the expertise necessary to formulate and then implement the program. For internal
strategic reasons, the Government chose to nominate the macroeconomic adviser as the
SMC coordinator. It is envisaged that the national counterpart will assume these
responsibilities after understudying the coordinator. Therefore, one of the coordinator's
important responsibilities will be to ensure that the national counterpart acquires the
expertise and skills to assume the position on or about September 1997. In the context of
the project, the coordinator will provide IDA with a training plan and a schedule to
transfer responsibilities gradually to the counterpart. The SMC's responsibilities include
the analysis and monitoring of the following elements: (i) performance criteria and
objectives (revenues, expenditures, money supply, credit, arrears and balance of
payments); (ii) adherence to budget (monitoring of commitments, contracts and
ISee Attachment 4.



7
payments); (iii) effects on the wage bill of the demobilization program and public service
adjustment; (iv) internal and external debt; (v) PE reform and privatization; and (vi)
liberalized labor policies2. The success of the reform agenda will necessitate strong
support from Djiboutians at all levels of society: political, administrative, public and
private enterprises, interest groups and other segments of the population. This will only
be possible if each party understands the nature of the reform, its objectives and the
measures envisaged. Given the urgency and severity of the planned reforms, the SMC is
to propose a communications strategy and an action plan that is intended to enlist the
support of all actors for the changes.
15.   Objectives. This component will support government's decision-making on
macroeconomic reforms by assisting the SMC to monitor economic indicators, analyze
economic progress and the impact of specific reforms, recommend reforms and programs,
and implement a communications plan.
16.   Description and Role of the TA
(a)   Macroeconomic Adviser. The component will provide the services of an
international long-term adviser responsible as the SMC coordinator to: (i)
elaborate a monitoring framework for the SAP and ensure that the SMC
obtains the necessary data on the economy; (ii) ensure that the reforms are
implemented according to the monitoring indicators; (iii) contract short-
term expertise, provided by the project, to undertake specialized studies
and analysis and formulate recommendations to the SAP-ISC; (iv) oversee
the preparation of the communications strategy, its translation into an
action plan and its implementation; (v) oversee the implementation of all
other project's components--PE reform, institutional reform and
demobilization--and proper administration of the project's resources; (vi)
provide secretariat services to the SAP-ISC; and (vii) ensure proper
training--on-the-job, formal--of the national counterpart to ensure a
gradual transfer of responsibilities.
(b)   Communication Specialists. A short-term international communication
specialist will be hired to help prepare the communications strategy. The
first task of the specialist will be to propose Terms of Reference for and to
participate in the recruitment of a long-term local communication adviser.
With the assistance of the short-term specialist, the local communication
adviser will participate in the preparation of the strategy and action plan.
The strategy will aim at mobilizing public opinion; improving the dialogue
among the key actors responsible for the implementation of the SAP;
informing the public society on the details, benefits of the reforms and
actions to protect vulnerable groups; and ensuring regular circulation of
news, information and explanations on the SAP. The national adviser will
be responsible to implement the communication strategy. Some of the
tasks will include to: (i) elaborate an action plan; (ii) prepare periodic,
2 To be supported by French technical assistance.



8
written communications on the SAP; (iii) inform the ministries of progress
made with SAP implementation; and (iv) organize seminars and workshops
for various target groups (within and outside government).
Short-term technical experts. Short-term technical-expert assistance in areas directly
linked to the execution of the reform program would be provided to conduct studies and
provide recommendations related to salary and benefits systems; procurement; public
finance structure; public expenditure control, and areas associated with improved public
management. The consultants will be asked to give short training sessions aimed at
creating awareness of such core economic policy instruments as public expenditure and
investment, and taxation to manage the economic reform. Executives will be trained in
change management; professional staff will be exposed to the utilization of
macroeconomic tools.
17.   TA Delivery Mode. The TA will be of two kinds: (i) long-term; and (ii) short-
term. The use of a long-term macroeconomic adviser is seen as essential because Djibouti
is embarking on its first structural adjustment program with the IMF. This adviser,
already in place, has previous experience of implementing a SAP in Africa. It is important
that the Djiboutian authorities benefit from the day-to-day association with him and he, in
turn, will train firstly a national counterpart but also other staff in the SMC to perform
their tasks. The short-term expertise, either local or international, will be used to
undertake studies and to provide on-the-job training in areas related to the SAP. As it is
impossible to foresee all the needs presently, the following is a list of possible TA that will
need to be adjusted to take into account requirements that will emerge during
implementation.
Breakdown ofpotential TA
International
- SAP macroeconomic                   36 person/months
- Procurement techniques              1.5 person/months
- Communication strategy              1 person/month
- Project management and monitoring   3 person/months
- Budget rationalization              8 person/months
- Collection of statistical data      4 person/months
- Elaboration of balance of payments  4 person/months
- Commercial bank audits              1 person/month
- SAP elaboration, monitoring, coordination 0.5 person/month
Local
- Communication                       36 person/months
- Pay and Benefit Systems             2 person/months
- Procurement for public goods        2 person/months
- Credit policy and development financing   2 person/months
- Public finance structure            2 person/months
- Public finance control              2 person/months



9
18.  Training. Both the SAP Monitoring component and the PE Reform and
Privatization component will initiate professional staff of the SMC and the PEMU to
techniques and tools related to the functions they have to perform. Professional staff
from ministries concerned with the SAP will also benefit from the condensed training
sessions that will be organized in the context of the short-term expertise provided for
studies and analyses. They will take place in Djibouti and will aim at increasing
awareness in areas related to the management of the reform and the improvement of the
utilization of macroeconomic tools. Thus staff will be exposed to seasoned professionals
and their techniques. Whenever a short-term expert is hired to undertake a specific
study, he will be assigned, if appropriate, a local staff member who will benefit from this
close association. The consultants' Terms of Reference will clearly spell out this
responsibility to transfer knowledge and skills. Study tours to other countries of Africa
would be considered on a case-by-case basis provided that clear objectives are spelled out
for the beneficiaries and that they aim at comparing experience with similar environments.
List of possible training sessions and seminars3:
- Change management and seminars for decision makers;
- Structural adjustment program;
- Budget and accounting for Treasury;
- Limited overseas seminars for senior public servants (statistics, revenue and
others).
Institutional Reform
19.   Background. Several actions have been taken by the Djiboutian authorities over
the last few years to improve their institutional framework: i) a new Constitution
instituting multipartism was adopted in 1992; ii) a Supreme Court was established in 1993
and the penal code was revised in 1995; iii) a law on communication and freedom of the
press was adopted in 1993; and iv) a peace accord was signed with the rebel forces in
1994. However, over the medium term, the Government will need to further the
institutional framework reforms if it wishes to achieve a permanent reduction of its wage
bill. The Government hopes to achieve this objective through armed forces demobilization
and a public service reform that will include a review of the wage policy of the public
sector. To effect this permanent reduction in a way that will minimize the social impact,
the Government launched a survey in October 1995 to determine the number of personnel
covered by the budget in order to identify those employees that do not correspond to their
budgetary positions and thence assessed the extent of the cash allowances illegally
granted. This audit will be supplemented by a separate verification to be undertaken by
the Treasury at the time of salary payments, sometime over the next few months. Part of
the reason for the increasing share of the wage bill is the salary costs associated with the
3A World Bank procurement and disbursement seminar will also be held.



10
mobilization effort in 1992. Out of a total wage bill of FDJ 20.6 billion in 1995, some FDJ
3.2 billion consisted of the salary costs of the mobilized soldiers. However, even taking
these extra costs into account, the wage bill still remains exceptionally high. The total
wage bill (including salaries and benefits) in 1995 was FDJ 16 billion, or 20 percent of the
Djiboutian GDP. It is reflective of relatively high salaries rather than an exceptionally
large number of public servants. In 1993, the total number of public servant posts was
approximately 8,000 implying that each received an equivalent of US$11,450 per year.
Given that GDP per capita is US$770, it means that the average public servant received
fourteen times the Djiboutian GDP per capita. This level of salaries reflects both a high
base salary but, equally importantly, a wide array of special benefits. The Djibouti public
servant may receive special indemnities related to his type of work, his status, as well as
for housing and transportation.
20.   The Government's public administration reform will need to address these issues
within a broad redefinition of the role of the state, and a review of present administrative
structures and procedures. Top-priority should be given to reinforcing commitment to the
reform program by enhancing the coordination and participation of all ministries. In this
context, a first step is for the Djiboutian authorities to clarify further their vision of an
institutional reform and the means to attain their objective of reducing the wage bill and
improve efficiency of the public service. In this context, they agreed with IDA to carry
out an Institutional Assessment (IA) to study institutional issues further. This diagnosis is
based on a participatory and consensus-building approach to assist the authorities in
analyzing problems to determine their root causes and effects. This will help them to
pinpoint where best to concentrate reform efforts. The action plan resulting from this
assessment is key to determining well-defined objectives and clear priority actions of
reform. This could serve as a starting point to rationalize the public administration and
reform the public service. Service delivery surveys aimed at collecting the population's
views of government services will be an integral part of the diagnosis. It is hoped that this
participatory process will allow Government to endorse the results of the assessment and
prepare a rational and feasible strategy for the reform. The component would be
implemented in stages with conditions to fulfill prior to moving to the next stage. The first
stage includes: (i) training senior public servants and some members of the civil society in
change management and techniques related to public administration reform; and (ii)
conducting the institutional assessment and formulating an action plan; and (iii) approval
by Government of the action plan. Contingent upon approval of the action plan, a
second stage would be initiated to: i) implement areas of the action plan related more
directly to improving economic management; and ii) assist Government to mobilize
resources for other areas of the institutional reform requiring external support. The
authorities will set up an IA coordinating committee headed by a coordinator who will be
responsible, with IDA's assistance, to carry out this assessment.
21.   Objectives. The main objective of the institutional reform component is to assist
the Government to formulate its strategy to reduce the wage bill and rationalize the public
service. It could pave the way to a more comprehensive reform of the public
administration.



I1
22.   Role of the TA. First stage: The IA's participatory approach helps participants to
understand the relationship between their own environment and economic management,
and to perceive the relationship and dependencies among the various elements of public
administration. During the IA process, TA will be used to train Djiboutians how to
conduct such assessments and to "learn-by-doing" specific tasks and activities. Short-term
experts will conduct service delivery surveys, training Djiboutians in the process. In
addition, short-term experts would be utilized for urgent, immediate tasks such as studying
the salary-and-benefits structure. Second stage: In relation to the action plan, TA could
be used to conduct specific rationalization studies, surveys, workshops, training and,
possibly, study tours. A probable intervention would be the strengthening of the Institut
national d'administration publique (INAP) de Djibouti through a twinning arrangement.
INAP is the only local institution with a mandate to train senior public servants in all areas
of public sector management. It is relatively new and has only benefited from modest
support so far. It is anticipated that short-term expertise would also be needed to study
such areas as: management information requirements, budgetary processes, and others to
be identified by the IA.
23.   TA DeliveryMode. Short-term expertise that will include capacity-building
activities enabling Djiboutians to conduct specific activities will be provided. The IA will
include international and national facilitators and surveyors. Short-term experts will work
closely with the IA coordinating committee to prepare questionnaires and provide
guidance on how to conduct the surveys. They will also identify target groups for the
assessment and participate in the organization and conduct of an initial workshop to
explain the assessment process. They will analyze the information collected and assist the
coordinating committee to prepare for the final workshop, summarize recommendations
and translate them into an action plan for Government approval.
24.   Breakdown of the TA and Training. It is also foreseen that, under this component,
senior government managers and other representatives from the private sector and civil
society (approximately 10) will participate in a reform management training program
(eight-week duration) at ENAP, Canada. The Government had already initiated
discussions with ENAP prior to project preparation and asked for IDA's assistance to
pursue this training in the context of the institutional reform. The selected group of
leaders will benefit from an exposure to change management and reform techniques/tools.
By helping to bestow ownership of the reform process upon senior Djiboutian public
servants and other leaders, it is foreseen that this training will help the reform to advance.
The first training session at ENAP will take place prior to the conduct of the IA; it is
foreseen that this group will be the leaders of the institutional reform. UNDP has agreed
to contribute to the financing (parallel) of this training. National and international trainers
will be contracted to provide training that might be identified by the IA in areas related to
economic management and general administration. As much as possible, the project will
use the INAP of Djibouti for facilitation during the assessment, and for training related to
follow-up activities. The latter could be done with the assistance of international
institutions in areas where INAP has not yet developed local expertise.



12
Breakdown of possible TA
International
- Institutional assessment                     4 person/months
- Review of the public administration structure  8 person/months
- Twinning arrangement with                   24 person/months
an international institution
- Management Information Systems               2 person/months
- Studies for other ministries (Justice, Labor, etc.)    6 person/months
Local
- Institutional assessment                     6 person/months
- Review of the public administration structure  8 person/months
- Twinning arrangement for INAP               36 person/months
- Other training and TA4                       6 person/months
Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization (PE)
25.   Background. The Government of Djibouti decided to implement voluntary reform
centered on more autonomous PEs and state divestiture. The list of PEs is presented in
Attachment 2. The Government's Memorandum of Economic Policies to the IMF in
March 1996 states that such reform:
".. .will contribute to an orderly implementation of the reform plan.
The latter envisages the following actions: (i) all public enterprises
will be subject to normal commercial laws as of May 31, 1996; (ii)
the law on privatization will be revised, to facilitate opening the
capital of public enterprises to the private sector; and (iii) an
inventory of cross-debts between public enterprises and the State
will be completed by the end of April 1996, when settlement by
compensation will take place and an action plan established to
regularize the remaining debts; and (iv) three enterprises are
scheduled for divestiture to be completed by the end of March
1996, and another by the end of November 1996."
26.   The PE reform embraces all sectors of the Djiboutian economy at the
microeconomic level. The MFNE coordinates the overall structural reform, but parent
ministries will also be involved in PE reform. The Government realizes that there is an
urgent need to make the PEs more efficient by restoring their capacity for self-financing
and by allowing private sector participation in their capital. To this end, a PE Monitoring
Unit (PEMU) was created, in the MFNE, to centralize the financial oversight of the PE
sector. In light of Djibouti's limited experience with structural adjustment programs,
including PE reform, it was decided the PEMU would report to the SMC coordinator.
4 Resulting from the assessment and identified by the action plan.



13
27.   Government Strategy for PE Reform. To address the problems of the PE sector,
the Government's policy includes the following objectives and actions:
(a)   Institutional and Legal FrameworkReform. The Government intends to
set up a legal framework and PE statutes making PEs' management more
independent. This will be achieved through law reform and the
implementation of a modern privatization law.
(b)   State and PEfinancial adjustment. Cross-debts will be identified and
settled. The PEs will benefit from improved budgetary procedures such as
the monitoring of Government's consumption of utilities' services. A plan
to reduce the consumption of electricity, water and telephone by the State
will be put in place.
(c)   Portfolio Management. The program seeks to improve policy formulation
and decisions concerning PEs through a reliable information system and
relevant data. The same accounting system will be put in place for all PEs
and an effective management information system will be developed.
(d)   PE Performance Improvement. The Government intends that the PEs will
contribute more to the country's economic development. This will be
achieved through better delivery of services, improved financial results and
by giving more autonomy to the PEs by way, for example, of management
contracts.
(e)   State Divestiture. The Government wishes to withdraw from less
important enterprises and either let the private sector manage them or
liquidate them, when appropriate.
28.   Objectives. This component will support Government's decision-making and effort
on public enterprise reform by providing highly specialized expertise and assistance for
limited, targeted strengthening of the PEMU.
29.   Description and role of the TA. Considering that Djibouti's qualified people are
few in number, two types of TA are envisaged for this component--general for the PEMU
and highly specialized for the PE reform as such. As it appears impossible to find locally
the highly-qualified, experienced people required to lead the PE reform process, the
Government decided to staff the PEMU with younger officers, appropriately skilled
academically, but with little experience. The TA and training for the PEMU staff will
focus on providing them with the savoir-faire and techniques to manage the PE reform
program. It will aim at developing management and monitoring skills in all areas related
to the PE reform process and the management of enterprises. It will target the PEMU,
technical ministries' staff and, whenever appropriate, PE staff. However, the Government
and IDA recognize that the PEMU officers will need a substantial amount of specialized
TA to perform the more technical tasks related to: (i) institutional and legal reform:
identification of reforms and formulation of recommendations for an improved framework;
(ii) financial adjustment of the PE sector: analysis of cross-debts and proposals for
settlements; (iii) improvement in the management of the State's portfolio:



14
recommendations for a reliable management information system based on dependable data
and related to a uniform accounting plan for all the PEs; (iv) improvement of PEs'
performance: financial and accounting audits of all PEs, identification of performance
indicators and the means to achieve them; and (v) State's divestiture: identification of PEs,
analysis and proposals.
30.   TA Delivery Mode. The direct assistance to the PEMU will include the services of
an international expert who will visit Djibouti periodically to provide coaching-and-
guidance services to the PEMU and technical ministries and PEs' staff. The second type
(specialized assistance), will provide highly specialized expertise for studies and tasks
necessary for the Government to make decisions on the reform of enterprises and
divestiture. The "general assistance" TA will be intensive during the first eighteen months,
but will be reduced gradually until the end of the project. The specialized expertise will be
provided selectively, on a case-by-case basis, linked to the Government PE reform
program and with terms of reference tailored to each assignment.
Breakdown of the TA
Capacity Building
- support to PEMU                     7 person/months
- training (PEMU and ministries)      3.5 person/months
Specialized expertise
- institutional and legal reform      4.25 person/months
- financial adjustment                1 person/month
- PE portfolio management             3 person/months
- PE performance improvement          36 person/months
- Divestiture                         4 person/months
31.   Training. It is envisioned that approximately 15 staff (PEMU, technical ministries
and PEs) will be trained for the PE reform component. Short, intensive seminars, to be
delivered in Djibouti, will aim at imparting know-how in areas related to the management
of reform and the improvement of PE performance. The training sessions will be followed
by practical assignments, of approximately two weeks, under the supervision of the
experts recruited for specific assignments.
List ofpossible seminars:
Commercial law; PE-reform methodology including financial analysis and
related computer applications, diagnosis and financial recovery of enterprises;
* Contracting and monitoring;
* Enterprise valuation and privatization, and associated software;
* Accounting Plan (1982); and



15
Study tours, mainly to other African countries: comparing PE reforms in a
similar environment.
Armed Forces Demobilization
32.   Background. The Government has already financed the demobilization of
approximately 4,000 soldiers using its own resources. It needs financial assistance to
demobilize the remaining 8,500. To assist with the development of the armed forces
demobilization program, IDA sent last October, at the Government's request, a
demobilization expert to Djibouti to discuss the elements of this program with the
authorities. Another short-term demobilization expert visited in April 1996 to help with
the development of the program's institutional and administrative arrangements. More
recently, in July, IDA provided a short-term consultant to guide the final drafting of a
document presenting the government's demobilization program. IDA has agreed to
facilitate resource mobilization once the document has been transmitted to potential
financiers. Donors' financial support will only be forthcoming when they are confident
that transparent administrative and financial arrangements are in place. The
demobilization of the armed forces is a critical element of the structural adjustment
program. The Government reiterated its willingness to implement a demobilization
program with donors'assistance. However, it is understood that if the external resources
were not forthcoming it would proceed with its own meager resources; and at a pace
reflecting the available resources. In this case, IDA would still assist with the
administration of the program, including provision of TA and training, provided that the
program is satisfactory.
33.   Objectives. To assist the Government of Djibouti achieve a permanent reduction
in its wage bill by providing the expertise, means and administrative support necessary for
the Government to demobilize about 8,500 soldiers.
34.   Description and Role of the TA. The TA will increase the possibility of the
demobilization being carried out effectively. It will involve short-term expertise for the
elaboration of (i) a predischarge orientation (PDO) program for soldiers; (ii) a
management information system on ex-soldiers; and (iii) financial control procedures.
This component will also provide administrative support to the Demobilization Unit,
located in the President's Office, which is implementing this program under the oversight
of the SMC. In addition, short-term expertise will be required to provide external auditing
services; and an independent evaluation of the program's implementation and impact, one
month after the end of the program.
35.   TA DeliveryMode. Short-term TA will provide the expertise necessary to
facilitate the execution of the demobilization program. Depending on financial support
from donors, the exercise could be completed in approximately 18-24 months. Capacity
building will occur in the process but is not this component's main objective. The
predischarge orientation will be undertaken by specialized staff who will be trained on-the-
job by a competent NGO during the first month of demobilization. It is envisaged that
veterans who have already been demobilized could be hired to provide the PDO. External
audits will be frequent (every two months) to ensure the proper utilization of a fairly large



16
budget (total program cost estimated at $16 million) to be managed by the Demobilization
Unit.
Breakdown of the TA
Short-term expertise
- Design/implementation of the PDO            4 person/months
- Design/implementation of MIS                4 person/months
- Design of financial procedures              2.5 person/months
- External auditing                          11 person/months
- Evaluation                                  2 person/months
36.   Training. Specialized training will be offered locally for a total of 3.5 months. Its
main purpose will be to ensure that local staff are able to implement effectively the
demobilization program. The areas include:
- Program objectives, benefits and implementation;
- Operation of the management information system;
- Provision of counseling, information and referral services;
- Conduct of the predischarge orientation sessions; and
- Financial administration and control.
Conditions of Credit
37.   Board Negotiations. The credit was negotiated upon the Government's approval
of a ministerial decision modifying the organization and composition of the SMC,
appointing civil servant to each position (8 professionals) and filling two administrative
positions to be financed by the credit (an administrator and an accountant). In addition,
the Government confirmed that its contribution to the project has been included in the
budget submission for the 1997 financial year. At negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that the counterpart funds for the first year of the project (equivalent to
$223,000) would available in January 1997.
38.   Conditionsfor Board Presentation. The government submitted an action plan to
report on its external debt and new commitments for 1994-1995.
39.   Other Actions/Areas agreed. The Government agreed to establish at the beginning
of the project a Coordinating Committee to be headed by a national coordinator to
conduct the institutional assessment. It also agreed to the use of a mid-term review after
fifteen months of project implementation.



17
Risks
40.   It must be recognized that the project will be implemented in a high risk
environment. The success of the project is tied directly to the implementation of the
overall reform program. In this regard, the Government of Djibouti is only just embarking
on these reforms and its determination to sustain implementation is not yet clear. The
IME mid-term review (December 1996) will assess progress made in the agreed program.
Any delay or backtracking in the Government's response to the SAP will affect project
implementation and reduce its chances of success. The capacity and willingness of
Djiboutian institutions to adapt to necessary reforms are variables which might also limit
success. An unwillingness of the Government to take difficult decisions is also an
important risk that would have an impact on the overall economic reform program and not
solely on the project. The demobilization of the armed forces is a key element of the
economic reform program. Should the Government be unable to find external financing,
this component would be implemented over a longer period of time with Government's
own limited resources. Regular reviews by the IMF of the implementation of the SAP,
IDA's close supervision of the project, and a continuation of close collaboration between
the two institutions to monitor Government's execution of and adherence to the agreed
reform program and project timetable will be crucial.
41.   In spite of these real risks, IDA support for this project is warranted. IDA has
concluded that without the project there is little chance that the structural adjustment
program can be implemented successfully. The project interventions are designed to
provide the Djiboutian authorities with a structure that is appropriate considering its
capacity shortcomings. This project is seen as the first step in a long-term endeavor to
help the Government improve gradually its capacity to manage the economy.
SECTION B
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
42.   Project support will be channeled through the SMC which is the executing agency
for the SAP Intermninisterial Steering Committee (SAP-ISC). The role of the SAP-ISC is
to make recommendations and provide proposals to the Government related to the
structural reforms. As its executing agency, the Terms of Reference of the SMC are
identical to the SAP-ISC's mandate. In this context, the proposed project identifies itself
with the SMC and will support reforms relevant to other ministries (institutional and
demobilization) and directorates within the MFNE through the SMC structure. The
SMC's organizational chart is presented in Attachment 3.
Project Coordination
43.   The SAP-ISC, composed of thirteen ministries and agencies (see Attachment 4), is
responsible for implementing the SAP; and is headed by the Minister of Finance. It will



18
also constitute the project steering committee. The SAP-ISC will review project
implementation periodically just as it follows implementation of the SAP. The purpose of
these reviews will be to assess project implementation against performance monitoring
indicators5 with a view to reducing TA needs within three years. The SAP-ISC will also
approve the annual work plans prepared by the SMC with its correspondents in the
Ministry of Public Service (Institutional Reform Component) and the President's Office
(Armed Forces Demobilization Component) and the PEs and their parent ministries (PE
Reform and Privatization Component).
Project Administration
44.   The SMC coordinator will control and manage all resources (local communication
adviser, PEMU staff, personnel for the analysis, coordination, administration and
accounting) including the project's inputs. Thus, he will ensure that the SMC executes its
mandate (to produce outputs; meet deadlines, control quality adequately). To ensure
efficient coordination, each member of the SAP-ISC will identify within its organization a
responsible manager who will liaise with the SMC. The Project will enable the SMC to
mobilize specialized expertise when necessary. In addition, the SMC will receive expert
assistance in procurement and program/financial management through TA envisaged at the
initial stage of the project. The SMC will have adequate administrative staff
(administrator and accountant) to handle the administrative aspects of (i) recruitment and
employment of the experts; (ii) procurement of goods and services; (iii) preparation and
presentation of withdrawal applications for the credit proceeds; (iv) periodic reporting to
IDA; and (v) preparation of yearly work plans. The SMC coordinator will liaise with IDA
concerning issues or problems related to project administration.
45.   In addition to annual work plans, the SMC will prepare progress reports for the
SAP- ISC. It will be responsible for the monitoring and financial control of all
components of the project, including financial audits. The SMC will prepare financial and
administrative management systems and procedures conforming to IDA directives and
guidelines. In addition, it will be responsible for all procurement of and contracting for
project goods and services. The SMC will provide administrative support for all project
components.
46.   For an interim period of approximately one year of the project, the SMC
coordinator will be the international macroeconomic adviser. He is seconded by a national
counterpart who will take over the coordinator's responsibilities at the end of the interim
period. Therefore, the two individuals will have the same job description except that the
international macroeconomic adviser will also be charged to ensure the transfer of
knowledge and skills to his national counterpart. However, as accountability cannot be
shared, it is understood that, inasmuch as the international macroeconomic expert is the
SMC coordinator, and as long as the decree has not been modified, the counterpart will
work under the supervision of the SMC coordinator. Once the transfer is effected, the
See Attachment 5.



19
SMC coordinator will be a Djiboutian national and the international expert will assume an
advisory role.
47.   All the component units will be provided with modest office equipment and
supplies, and incremental operating expenses (95%), whilst public servants' salaries,
offices, normal operating expenses and 5 percent of incremental operating expenses will be
part of the Government's contribution to the project.
48.   Project sustainability will be enhanced by a simple project design and the
channeling of all activities through the SMC. Performance monitoring indicators, (see
Attachment 5) established during appraisal and confirmed at negotiations, will enable the
Djiboutian authorities and IDA to identify clearly both achievements, and work remaining
to be done to reach project objectives. They will also enable the Djiboutian authorities
and IDA to maintain their dialogue on the pertinence of the planned interventions, and to
adjust them if necessary to reflect prevailing conditions in Djibouti. Close coordination by
the SMC of the contributions of other donors, under parallel arrangements, will be crucial
to maximize the benefits of the TA to the Djiboutian administration. In addition,
supervision missions will provide the framework to continue the dialogue with the donors
on the status of their TA interventions. The overall project will be subject to a mid-term
review after fifteen months to provide for changes in component objectives, management,
inputs, and performance monitoring indicators, if necessary.
49.   To assist with project management, implementation and administration, the
Government of Djibouti will utilize the Project Implementation Plan6. This document
contains TORs for specialized TA already identified, the project implementation schedule,
budgets and administrative procedures relating to the use of and access to funds as
discussed and agreed with IDA.
Reporting, Monitoring and Accountability
50.   The SMC will submit quarterly reports on project implementation to the SAP-ISC
and IDA, summarizing progress achieved, budget status, difficulties encountered, and
changes and adjustments to be made. The SAP-ISC will meet periodically to review
progress, make decisions and assign responsibilities for any follow-up action which might
be needed. The agenda and minutes of these meetings will be prepared by the SMC
coordinator, and transmitted to IDA to assist with supervision.
6
6First draft was prepared by members of the SMC and of the IDA mission during project appraisal and
completed prior to Board presentation.



20
Procurement
51.   Procurement under the credit as summarized in Schedule 3 would cover the net-of-
tax cost of regular non-civil service and consultant personnel, studies, training, and goods
and vehicles for technical assistance. The logistical and support services, and goods and
vehicles element would facilitate the functioning of the SMC office and other units and
amount to US$0.5 million, of which about US$0.4 million would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures acceptable to IDA. All procurement
packages with an estimated cost of more than $50,000 would be procured using ICB
procedures, and Standard Bidding Documents, according to IDA Guidelines.
International Shopping Procedures would be used for all procurement of goods below this
ICB threshold. Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of $30,000 may be procured using local shopping procedures. Vehicles
and computers required for start-up of operations may be purchased from UNDP Inter-
Agency Procurement Service (IAPSO), with IDA's prior agreement. The regular non-civil
service personnel funded by the credit would be recruited locally. It is expected that local
recruitment will be limited to staff who are not specialists or experts and are readily
available in Djibouti.
52.   The estimated cost of consultant services, studies and training is about US$5.0
million of which about US$4.8 million will be funded by IDA. Terms of reference were
prepared by the SMC for each consultancy contract and will be subject to IDA's prior
review; terms of reference will be required for the recruitment of (i) qualified individuals
against positions (mostly advisory but some line positions); (ii) long- or short-term
consultants (firms or individuals) to prepare studies, action plans and similar products
(including, for example, advising on the performance contracts, legal frameworks,
valuation and divestiture); and (iii) consultants to assist in preparing PEs for privatization
or liquidation and in restructuring PEs retained in state ownership. All recruitment of
individual consultants and consulting firms will be carried out competitively using
advertising, as appropriate. IDA will prior review all budgets, terms of reference, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts. Prior IDA review shall also apply to: (i) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (ii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association,
(iii) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above, or (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above. No
IDA prior review will be required for: (i) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each or (ii) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. A more
detailed breakdown of procurement categories to be financed by IDA, including methods
of procurement, is shown in Table 1 below.



21
Table 1. Amounts and Methods of Procurement (US$'000)
Procurement Category      ICB          NIS          Other     Grand Total
1. Cons./TA/Studies                -            -      3,251.00     3,251.00
-            -    (3,251.00)   (3,251.00)
2. Training                        -            -         1,698        1,698
-            -       (1,548)      (1,548)
3. Equipment & Vehicles       285.50          160             -         445
(285)        (160)            -        (445)
4. Operating Cost                  -           36         1,908        1,944
-         (36)       (1,239)      (1,275)
Total Project Cost       285          196         6,857        7,338
(285)        (196)       (6,038)     (6,519)
IDA Contributions are in brackets
Disbursements
53.   Disbursements under the credit will be made against 100% of expenditures for
consultant services and external (both local and overseas) training, goods, and services
(net of taxes and duties). IDA will finance 95% of incremental operating costs except
incremental local staff costs which IDA will finance 100% (net of taxes and duties. The
Government has provided IDA with documentation indicating that the procurement will
be exempt from duties and taxes. The Government will finance 100% of the cost of in-
house training of staff, and office facilities and support services for the consultants.
Disbursements for training7 and any contract below the equivalent of US$50,000 will be
made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), and provisions for advance
payment of per diem, travel and fees will be made under the credit. In order to facilitate
access to project funds for numerous small payments, a special account equivalent to
US$0.8 million8 will be opened at the Banque Nationale de Djibouti. The expected
completion date of the project is December 31, 1999, and the credit closing date will be
June 30, 2000. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$400,000 had been provided
and all amounts disbursed from this PPF will be become part of the IDA credit when it
becomes effective.
Accounts and Audits
54.   The Ministry of Finance and National Economy (MFNE) will be responsible for
ensuring that accounts for all expenditures funded under the credit, are prepared regularly
and kept up-to-date by the SMC. The project accounts will be maintained in accordance
with sound and internationally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory
to IDA. The MFNE will provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the
7Documentation for travel and training overseas must be submitted to IDA for review.
sOnly US$0.3 will be advanced until an action plan has been submitted and approved by IDA.



22
financial performance and position of the project. It will also appoint an accountant to
ensure that project accounts are properly maintained. The appointment of the accountant
was confirmed during negotiations. Project accounts will be audited annually by
independent external auditors, including an audit of SOEs. The audit reports of such
scope and in such detail as IDA shall reasonably request would be submitted to the
Association no later than six months following the end of the Government's fiscal year.
The auditor's report will include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the
accounting system and internal controls, the reliability of statements of expenditures as a
basis for loan disbursement, and compliance with financial covenants.
Mid-Term Review
55.   Given the lack of experience of the Djiboutian administration to implement an IDA
project, and considering the lessons learned from a previous simnilar credit (1982), a mid-
term review will take place 15 months after implementation commences.
Development of Local Capacity
56.   In the project design, the Government of Djibouti and IDA paid special attention
to elements of capacity building. Considering the scope of the SAP to be implemented,
and its urgency, it is understood that capacity building will only be achieved on a modest
scale. Nevertheless, a high priority has been given to incorporating, whenever possible,
activities that will contribute to enhanced local skills. The SMC, as an institution, will
develop its capacity through the experience of project implementation. It will acquire
basic project management abilities as well as the knowledge and skills required to
implement a SAP. The national counterpart to the SMC coordinator will be targeted for
additional training. Special attention will be paid to ensure that short-term experts'
contracts contain an element of skill-transfer responsibilities in their Terms of Reference.
This will apply to all project components.



Schedule I
Page I of 4
0,
N                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I C
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
F- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -d
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
z~ ~~~~~ 5                                                            -D
0~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E~~~~~~~                                                   E (A
0                                    0  0~~~~~~~~~~~    
U---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00 .-                                   I  -: II.~~~~~~~~~~~0 
d) CLU2                                  (
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Z ~ ~       c I       2 a,aa-a
: c                                                                             to .
CL                                                                        co- - '(  (  C 0Z., 
*2  0  2'(A  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a  a  -  0  -~~~~~~~~~~~:sC
~~ 2  (A                                      a~~-4.4
(A  di di C  -(A~~~~~~~~~~~~L 



DJIBOUTI - PROJET O'AT POUR APPUYER REFORME ECONOMIQUE (PATARE)
10    Task Name                                          Qtr 4       Qtr I      Qtr 2 197Ot198Qr                                                                              Qtr2 1999       3       Qtr 4   I     tr I
36                    1.2.2.1ltableau bord mensuel             I I       I      I    I     I     I     I    I      I    I     I     I    I           I           i     i     I          I           I
73                    1.2.2.2 Synth6se tendanceslimpa                     I          IIIIIIIIIII
86                    12.2.3 rapport annuel
90               1.2.3 6tudes/propositions                                                                                                                     I
91             ~~~~~1.2.3.1 idenlification des besoins
92                    1.2.3.2 realisation des 6tudes          y
93                         1.2.3.2.1 finances publiques
107                        1.2.3.2.2 gestionlsuivi proj.
115                        1.2.3.2.3 autres 6tudes/form.
121              1.2.4 secretariat CPS-PAS                     E                                                   
122              1.2.5 communications
123                   1.2.5.1 plan/strat6gie
124                   1.2.5.2 niveau politiquejII
128                   1.2.5.3 niveau administration                        II                        IIIIII                                                                III
142                   11.2.5.4 niveau soc!6td civileIIIIIII
150                   1.2.5.5 coordination bailleurs fond    i                                                                                                                                           
164              1.2.6 gestion                                                                                   IIt
165                   1.2.6.1 systimeslproc6duresI                                                                                                          II
170                   1.2.6.2 passation march6s                        ***                                 *fl                      l*                                111
190                   1.2.6.3 planification                     3I
~194                    1.2.6.4 suivi et contr8leI                            I           IIIIIIII                                                                                                 II
en
Task                                            Summary                   v          v          Rolled Up ProgressI
Project: DJIBOUTI - PROJET D'AT P                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
Date: 10/23/96                               Progress                                        Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                       Rolled Up Milestone <~



DJIBOUTI - PROJET D'AT POUR APPUYER REFORME ECONOMIQUE (PATARE)
1997                                        1998                                        1999
ID    Task Name                                       Qtr4       Qtr 1      Qtr2       Qtr3       Qtr4       Qtr 1      Qtr2       Qtr3        Qtr4 A     Qtr 1      Qtr2       Qtr3       Qtr4       Qtr 1
208                  1.2.6.5rapportageprogris                 I          I          I          I          I          I                                 I
_i2 22               1.2.6.6 audits annuels           .l
226            ~~~~~1.2.6.7 revue de mi-parcours . 
'                                                                              .V
_227         1.3 Reforme EP. __
228             1.3.1 expertise technique.                   _..                                                                                                
229                  1 3.1 1 cadre jundique/insttut.
1.3.1.2 assainissement fin.
234                       1 3 1 2 4 etude dettes croisces
235                  1.3.1.3 amel. gest. portefeuille
239                       1.3.1.3.4 etude ordre exp co
240                  1.3.1.4 performances des EP__
241                       1.3.1.4.1 analyses financi&re
246                       1.3.1.4.2 diagnostic/plan redr
251       =               1.3.1.4.3 suivi plan redresse
256                       1.3.1.4.4 etudes budgets pre
260                      1.3.1.4.5 audits comptables
264                  1.3.1.5 desengagement Etat       ,                                                      _
277             1.3.2 renforcement suivi reforme
278                  1.3.2.1 Formation de l'USREP                                  *              *
284                  1.3.2.2 formabon comptables EP
285                  1.3.2.3 AT (transfert savoir-faire)  *
et e
Task                                         Summary                                      Rolled Up Progress n
Project: DJIBOUTI - PROJET D'AT P
Date: 10/23/96                            Progress                                     Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                    Rolled Up Milestone 0



DJIBOUTI - PROJET O'AT POUR APPUYER REFORME ECONOMIQUE (PATARE)
_______ I              ~~1997                     ]1998                                           I1999
ID     Task Name                     ____          _       Qtr 4         tr        Qr2           t3        Qtr 4       Qtri I     Qtr 2        Qtr 3       Qtr4        Otri1       Qtr 2   1Otr 3          Qtr 4       Otr 1
2-9 3              1.3.3 communication 
2i94          1.4 Appuli I a demobilisationII
295               1.4.1 mise en oeuvreII
2-96                    1.4.1 1 recrutement personnel
297                    1 4.1.2 formnation gen. personnel
298   ~ ~~      -1-.4.1.3- programme d'orentation
299              ~~~~1 ~41.4 sy~st6me gestion -informatmon
300                   1 .4.1.5 proo6d.financi6resI contr6le
301             ~~~~~1.4.1.6 demobilisationII
302                    1.4.1.7  informiation/conseil                                                                 _____________________
i303        ~      1.4.2 ~suivi de la imise en oeuvreI 
30O4                    1.4.2.1 audits externes                                                   *        *        *******                                                                            **
31 9              1 .4.3 communicationIIIIIII
327         ~~~1.4.4 evaluation irdepenclante
fbe
Task                                             Summary                    v'                    Rolled Up Progress
Project: DJIBOUTI - PROJET O'AT P             PrgesRl
Date: 10/23/96                                PrgesRled Up Task
Milestone                                        Rolled Up Milestone0K



Schedule 2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO SUPPORT ECONOMIC REFORM
TRAINING PLAN
1.    The need for more general management and implementation skills as well as technical
skills is well recognized in Djibouti. The project will help address these shortfalls through the
provision of technical expertise that will be involved in all four project components. The Terms
of Reference for each technical expert will specify the requirement to transfer skills, and to
provide short courses, if appropriate during the course of their assignment. Such skill-transfer
and training should help create awareness, modify perceptions and, hopefully, change behaviors.
The training's main objective will be to initiate professional staff to techniques and tools related
specifically to the functions they have to perform in the context of Djibouti's economic reform
program. Although specific topics for training have been identified in the description of each
project component, general management, finance and accounting, procurement and computing
skills will also be included. It is foreseen that, generally, the training will take place in Djibouti or
on the African continent, except for Bank-, EDI- or IMF-related training which will be provided
to a few, selected individuals.
2.    The training of the national counterpart who will head the SMC in approximately a year
will merit special attention. A specific training plan, to be submitted to IDA prior to credit
effectiveness by the macroeconomic adviser, will include targets for monitoring and assessing
progress towards transferring responsibilities to the national counterpart.
Sources of training
3.    For the SAP Monitoring Component, trainees will come from the thirteen ministries and
agencies composing the SAP-ISC. The SMC coordinator, in collaboration with a liaison officer in
each ministry, will be responsible for identifying potential candidates.
4.    Regarding the Institutional Reform Component, the training is divided in two stages
reflecting the component's activities. For the first stage, two groups of trainees will be identified:
(i) the future leaders of the reform will come mainly from those ministries to be involved heavily
in the future institutional reform but will also include representatives from the private sector and
civil society; they will be mainly senior managers who can advance the reform process. It is
envisaged that they will be selected from the Ministry of Public Service and Institutional Reform,
the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labor, the President's and Prime
Minister's Offices, and, possibly, the INAP, the Chamber of Commerce and civil society; and, (ii)
other public servants, to receive on-the-job training to conduct the surveys required by the IA will
come from the thirteen ministries forming the SAP-ISC. The second stage of the component will
be determined by the outcome of the IA. Therefore, it is difficult to be specific about the training
activities which will emerge. Some elements have been provided in the component's description
but they remain to be confirmed. Trainees will probably come from the main ministries to be
involved in the reform but are likely to also involve the private sector and local leaders. Given



Schedule 2
Page 2 of 3
that the INAP is the only institution with the mandate to train public servants in all areas of public
administration, some training interventions would aim to strengthen it.
5.    Apropos of the PE Reform and Privatization Component, trainees will come firstly
from the PEMU and the technical ministries overseeing the public enterprises. In addition, it is
foreseen that staff from the public enterprises themselves could benefit from the training, e.g., the
accountants to be trained to use the 1982 accounting plan, which is to be standardized for all PEs.
6.    The Armed Forces Demobilization Component will include training of the
administrative staff of the Demobilization Unit. It has not yet been decided from whence the staff
will be selected, although some of the present public servants who are already part of the
Demobilization Technical Unit would benefit from the training. Additional staff, hired locally, will
be trained to manage the demobilization program.
Training Mode
7.    Training will be provided locally and regionally. Depending on the project component
concerned, it could be on-the-job training, or if a greater number of participants is involved, it will
take the form of seminars and workshops. Two other types of interventions are envisaged--study
tours and a twinning arrangement. The study tours in other African countries would be
associated with three of the components: SAP monitoring, PE Reform and Privatization, and
Armed Forces Demobilization. The twinning arrangement would be initiated in the second
phase of the Institutional Reform component, i.e., if an action plan for institutional reform is
approved. It would seek to reinforce the capacity of the INAP as a only local institution
mandated to provide training for the entire Djiboutian administration. INAP was paired with
ENAP (Canada) and this limited twinning arrangement, funded by Canada, appears to have been
successful. The twinning arrangement under the IDA credit would aim to transfer managerial,
financial and technical skills and systems. INAP would continue to benefit from concrete
examples and practical applications of the principles and procedures that it wants to put into
effect in its own operations by being twinned with a relevant international institution.
Responsibilities
8.    The SMC will be responsible for all project implementation, including the training
elements. It is intended that a training needs-assessment will be conducted by a local consultant
or the INAP to confirm areas identified by the authorities during project preparation. Training
will be provided mainly in the context of short-term technical assistance. The experts visiting
Djibouti will be responsible for designing and delivering the training activities related to their
specialties. Whenever possible, the INAP will be used to provide training in areas where it has
already developed some competence.
9.    A more systematic training approach will be followed for the PEMU. An international
expert-trainer will be hired to visit Djibouti periodically and mandated specifically to strengthen
the capacity of the PEMU. He will assure that the PEMU staff acquire management and
monitoring skills in all areas related to PE reform and privatization and the management of
enterprises. Initially he will use the training plan developed during project preparation, then adapt
it to the current situation, visiting Djibouti periodically to provide coaching-and-guidance



Schedule 2
Page 3 of 3
services. The PEMU staff, in collaboration with the expert, will prepare a work plan to
implement between the expert's periodic visits. In subsequent visits the expert will help resolve
any problem faced by the PEMU.
10.   The project's Gantt chart presented in Schedule 1 gives an overview of all the activities
that will require technical assistance and which thus will contain training elements. However,
there is a clear requirement for flexibility and the adaptation of training to changing conditions as
the project progresses.
11.   Considering the scope of the task the Djiboutians have embarked upon with the
implementation of the SAP, and in light of their currently limited capacity, it is fair to have limited
expectations. Nonetheless, it is envisaged that the training opportunities will provide some of the
skills and knowledge needed by Djiboutian public servants to operate in this new environment
such as setting objectives, planning strategically and developing performance measures.
Djiboutian managers will have acquired budgeting and monitoring techniques and other areas of
expertise related to economic reform.



Schedule 3
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT ECONOMIC REFORM PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs (US$ '000)
Description              1996      1997     1998      1999     Total
Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Monitoring Component
Consultants, Technical Assistance & Studies:
Budget Rationalization                           -    50.04    25.02         -    75.05
Collection of Statistical Data                  -    29.73      14.87        -    44.60
Commercial Bank Audits                          -         -   184.91         -   184.91
Communication Strategy/Coms. Spec.              -    27.80     27.80     27.80    83.39
Credit Policy & Dev. Financing                  -    14.18          -        -    14.18
Elaboration of Balance of Payments              -    29.73      14.87        -    44.60
Mid Term Review - CAPAS                         -         -    38.07         -    38.07
Pay & Benefit Systems                           -    14.18          -        -    14.18
Procurement of Public Goods                     -    14.18          -        -    14.18
Procurement Techniques                           -    29.73     14.87        -    44.60
Project Mgt. & Monitoring                        -    21.03     10.51        -    31.54
Public Finance Control                           -    14.18         -        -    14.18
Public Finance Structure                        -    14.18          -        -    14.18
SAP Elaboration, Monitoring & Coord.            -    14.14         -         -    14.14
SAP Macroeconomic Expert                        -   110.40    110.40    55.20   276.00
Training Needs Assessment                       -      7.09         -        -      7.09
Training, Study Tours and Workshops:
Budget & Acctg. for Treasury                    -    11.18    22.35          -    33.53
Change Mgt. & Seminars for Decision Makers      -   127.43      86.45    86.45   300.34
Limited Overseas Seminars                       -      9.04    78.91    166.76   254.71
Seeminars on Structural Adj.                    -    25.42      16.85    15.61    57.88
World Bank Proc. & Disb.                        -      1.24      1.24        -      2.48
Office Equipment & Vehicles                     70.42    85.87      2.47     1.24   160.00
Operating Cost                                  90.40    180.80    180.80    180.80   632.80
Sub-total   160.82   831.57   830.39   533.86  2,356.64
Public Enterprise (PE) Reform & Privatization Program
Consultants, Technical Assistance & Studies:
Divestiture                                     -    60.00         -         -    60.00
Financial Adjustment - BDD                      -    30.00    20.00          -    50.00
Financial Adjustment - CNR                      -    40.00          -        -    40.00
Financial Adjustment - CPS                      -    40.00          -        -    40.00
Financial Adjustment - Djibouti Airport         -    30.00    20.00    20.00    70.00
Financial Adjustment - Electricite de Djibouti  -    40.00    20.00          -    60.00
Financial Adjustment - EPH                      -    20.00    20.00    20.00    60.00
Financial Adjustment - IN                        -    20.00         -        -    20.00
Financial Adjustment - ONAC                     -    20.00         -         -    20.00
Financial Adjustment - ONED                     -    20.00    20.00      20.00    60.00
Financial Adjustment - Pharm. de                -    15.00         -         -    15.00
l'Independance



Schedule 3
Page 2 of 2
Description                1996     1997     1998      1999    Total
Financial Adjustment - Postes et Telecoms      -    40.00    20.00    20.00    80.00
Financial Adjustment - SID                     -    40.00        -         -    40.00
Financial Adjustment - SMI                     -    40.00        -         -    40.00
Financial Adjustment -STID                     -    20.00    20.00    20.00    60.00
Financial Adjustnent TA                        -    30.00        -         -    30.00
Institutional & Legal Reform                   -   110.00    15.00         -   125.00
PE Performance Improvement                     -   297.40   198.80    58.80   555.00
PE Portfolio Mgt.                              -    90.00        -         -    90.00
Training for Institutional Development        20.00    65.00    65.00         -   150.00
Office Equipment                              70.00        -        -         -    70.00
Operating Cost                                76.93   153.86   153.86   153.86   538.50
Sub-total   166.93  1,221.26   572.66   312.66  2,273.50
Support for Institutional Reform
Consultants, Technical Assistance & Studies:
IA and Service Delivery Survey                 -    90.00        -         -    90.00
Mgt. Information Systems                       -    10.00    90.00         -   100.00
Review of Public Adm. Structure                -        -   224.44         -   224.44
Studies for other Ministries (Justice, Labor, etc.)  -    50.63   210.63   -   261.25
Training, Study Tours and Workshops:
Change Mgt. Training                           -       52       156        -   208.00
Other Training & TA                            -         -       18        -    18.00
Review of Public Adm. Structure                -    48.75   101.25         -   150.00
Training & Capacity Bldg.                      -    81.61   313.21   103.36   498.19
Office Equipment                                  -   116.13        -         -   116.13
Sub-total       -   449.11  1,113.53   103.36  1,666.00
Support to the Armed Forces Demobilization Program
Consultants, Technical Assistance & Studies:
Design of Financial Procedures                 -    15.00        -         -    15.00
Design/Impl. of MIS                            -    12.00        -         -    12.00
Design/lmpl. of the PDO                        -    38.00        -         -    38.00
Evaluation                                     -        -        -    24.00    24.00
External Audits                                -    16.80    19.60    19.60    56.00
Training & Capacity Bldg./Demobilization          -    24.90        -         -    24.90
Office Equipment                              10.70    40.36        -         -    51.06
Vehicles                                          -    48.00        -         -    48.00
Operating Cost                                38.96   244.72   244.72   244.72   773.11
Sub-total    49.66   439.78   264.32   288.32  1,042.07
GRAND TOTAL    377.41  2,941.72  2,780.89  1,238.19  7,338.22



Structure globale des travaux du projet
|Cellule d'appui
|au PAS
Reforme du cadre               Secretariat                  Reforme des                    Appui a la demo-
institutionnel                 suivi-Analy    |             entreprises                    bilisation,
| 100               PAS      |200                publiques 300                             400
Diagnostique                  Cadre de suivi               Expertise                       Mise en oeuvre
_ IEA                        - _ et donn6es                techniqu
110                           |210                          310                             410
Plan d'action                 Analyse                      Renforcement                    Suivi de la
- Tendan                      institutionnel                  mise en
120                  Impact  220                           320                    oeuvre  420
Appui r6 formes                Ltudes/ Propo-              Commu nica-                     Communica-
H4oo u130                      sitions    -                tions    33043
1230                                                       F  -
Communica-                    Secretariat
tions  ,                      CPS-PAS e
140                  Liaisons 240
Communica-
-tions
250
Gestion     0                                                                    rt
260                                                                    em
-4 I



PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR APPUYER LA REFORME ECONOMIQUE
Sommaire                      Indicateurs objectivement verifiables   Moyens de verification           Suppositions critiques
Objectif du gouvernement:
Mettre  en   oeuvre   des  reformes  -Taux de croissance reel du PIB de 3%   Rapports du FMI             Volonte du gouvernement de prendre les
economiques au cours de la periode 1996-  I'an A compter de 1997.                                        decisions difficles et de mettre en oeuvre
2000 visant a creer un environnement                                          Rapports de la CAPAS       les reformes requises.
macro-economique stable permettant le  - Le deficit des comptes exterieurs (hors
retour de la croissance economique et de  dons) passe de 17.9% du PIB en 1995 A                          La formation brute de capital fixe passe
1'emploi,  I'quilibre   des   comptes  12.5% en 2000.                                                    de 12% du PIB en 1995 A 16% en 2000
exterieurs ainsi que le soulagement de la                                                                (Reprise des investis-sements des grandes
pauvrete.                              -En l'an 2000, les reserves exterieures de                        entreprises publiques (electricite, eau,
Djibouti correspondent A une couverture                           port, aeroport et telecom.) et reprise des
des besoins equivalant a 5.7 mois (4.8                           investis-sements  prives  en  telecom,
mois en 1995), sans arrieres interieurs ou                        banques et assurances.
exterieurs.
Elimination des arrieres et dettes croisees
- Maintien du taux d'inflation A 3% entre                        fin 1996.
1996-1999.
L'epargne nationale brute passe de 4% du
-Reduction du deficit fiscal (hors dons) de                       PIB en 1995 A 10% en 2000.
13.4% du PIB A 1.1 % en 1999.
Reforme des politiques,  pratiques et
-Maintien de la politique monetaire.                              performance fiscales.
Reforme des entreprises publiques men6e
A terme.
Demobilisation de 9000militaires avant la
mi- 1998.
Reforme de l'administration publique et
reduction de la masse salariale (hors
militaires)
D
et'
o -



PROJET D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR APPUYER LA REFORME ECONOMIQUE
Sommaire                       Indicateurs objectivement verifiables     Moyens de verification             Suppositions critiques
But du projet
Appuyer la prise de decision  par le  -Suivi de performance, analyses d'impact  Rapport de mission du         - Reunions mensuelles (au moins) du
gouvernement en  ce  qui touche  Ics  et de tendances.                            Task manager                Comite de Pilotage du PAS.
reformcs macro-economiques et le cadre  -Analyse et propositions de reformes et de   Rapport du FMI
des politiques et programme qui les sous-  politiques.                            Rapports de la CAPAS        -La CAPAS  est dotee  du  personnel
tendent en faisant un suivi rapproche de  -Conception et mise en oeuvre d'une  (suivi de reformes et de la    minimum identifie a l'organigramme de la
I'evolution des reformes et en mobilisant  strategie  de  communications  et  de  demobilisation)             cellule dans le plan de gestion du projet
Ics ressources et l'expertise necessaires  sensibilisation pour faciliter les reformes.                       d'appui sous financement de la Banque
pour aider a formuler des politiques et                                                                       Mondiale.
reformes appropriees.
-Peu ou pas de rotation du personnel de la
Extrants                                                                                                      CAPAS au cours de ia periode 1996-
-Plan d'action                                                       1999.
Plan  d'action  et strategie de reforme   -Etudes    et      plans     d'actions
institutionnelle (ST-100)                complementaires                                                      -Recrutement   d'cxpertise   ponctuelle
nationale et internationale de qualite.
-Secretariat du comite de pilotag-Tableau
Suivi, analyse et propositions de reformes  de bord et propositions de politiques.                            -Coordonnateur de la CAPAS exerce un
et de politiques economiques (ST-200)                                                                         r6le de direction au sein de la cellule et
assure que les ressources de la cellule ont
Propositions de reformes des entreprises  -Audits                                                             un programme de travail et le realise.
publiques (ST-300)                       -Plan de redressement
-Modific.du cadre 1egal/institutionnel                              -Collaboration    efficace   avec   les
Appui a la demobilisation (ST-400)       -Support logistique et administratif                                 differentes organisations susceptibles de
fournir l'information.
Intrants                                                                                                     -Au besoin, saisie et resolution de tout
problemes de collaboration avec ces
organisation par le CPS-PAS.
Ressources humaines, equipement et
financires                                Voir budget                                                         -Capacite  a trouver et mobiliser de
1'expertise qualifiee et disponible en
temps voulu.                                     t
Co 
_ m



Composante Appui i la reforme institutionnelle
Description                      Impact (Indicateurs              Moyens de verification            Hypotheses critiques (risques)
objectivement verifiables)
But du Gouvernement:             -Une reduction du deficit de 1.8 %   -Criteres de performance du FMI.  -Volonte du gouvemement de
A moyen-terme, atteindre une     du PIB en 1998.                  -Rapports de mission du FMI.      prendre des decisions difficiles
reduction permanente de la masse  -Controle du personnel complete   -Rapports de mission de suivi de   afin de mettre en oeuvre le plan
salariale en menant une r6forme    avant octobre 1996 et stabilisation  la Banque mondiale.         d'action decoulant du DEI.
de la fonction publique afin d'en    A 10,032 personnes (excluant les   -Rapports du comite de pilotage    -Efforts d'ajustement structurel
arriver A une fonction publique  anciens combattants).            du PAS.                           continuent.
proportionnee aux besoins, motive  -Plan d'action approuve avant le   -Rapport d'enquete sur
et efficcace.                    30 aout 1997 pour une r6forme    1'enumeration des fonctionnaires.
administrative.                  -Plan d'action endosse
officiellement par le GDD.
Objectifs du projet:
Aider le gouvemement a identifier  -Propositions de "rationalisation"   -Rapport de l'atelier final du DCI.  -Receptivite des autorites au
sa strategie pour reduire le cout de  des salaires et benefices   -Rapport de la Commission         processus et aux resultats.
la masse salariale dans les      completee pendant le ler trimestre  nationale au Comite de pilotage.   -Volonte de changement.
depenses publiques ainsi que pour  apres la mise en vigueur du projet  -Rapport de propositions faites au  -Ouverture A la critique.
rationaliser l'organisation et le  (janv.-mars 1997).             gouvernement concemant les
fonctionnement de                -Plan d'action formule par la    salaires et benefices.
I'administration publique en     Commission nationale de la
fonction de priorites A definir et de  reforme finalise en juin 1997.
contraintes a preciser.          -Moyennant l'approbation du plan
d'action, mise en oeuvre de
certaines recommandations A
_partir de septembre 1997.
Resultats:
-Diagnostic du cadre institutionnel -Atelier sur les resultats du DEI en  -Enquete sur tous les benefices  -Volonte des autorites de mener le
(DCI) (incluant les enquetes de  mai 1997.                        re,us par tout le personnel couvert DCI.
prestations de services et de    -Stage a 1'ENAP complete avec    par le budget.                    -Participation active des
gouvemance).                     succes, i.e., les hauts-         -Rapports d'etudes diverses       ministeres et de la societe civile.
-Hauts-fonctionnaires formes pour  fonctionnairesjouent un r6le   menees par des conseillers.       -Bonne coordination assuree par    s
mener la reforme institutionnelle.   actifs dans cette composante du                                la CAPAS.
-Revue de la politique salariale de  projet complete le 30 juin 1997.



Description                        Impact (Indicateurs                 Moyens de verification              Hypotheses critiques (risques)
objectivement verifiables)
la fonction publique.              -Comite de coordination et
-Etude sur les benefices des       commission nationale formes et
fonctionnaires.                    operationnels dticijanvier 1997.
-Autres etudes et formation reliees  -Contenu des enquetes planifie
au plan d'action d6fini lors du    pour le debut de 1997.
DCI.
-Renforcement de l'INAP
possible.
Intrants':                         Voir budget                                                             -Recrutement de conseillers
-Accord de projet signe.           competents.
-Expertise ponctuelle (inclut                                          -Contrats de conseillers signes.    -personnel identifie pour
communication)                                                         -Passation des marches.             participer a l'exercice.
-Formation                                                             -Rapports annuels d'audit.         -bonne strategie de
-Equipement                                                            -Rapports trimestriels              communication.
-Fonctionnement                                                        d'avancement du projet.
x5 rt
~r-t
Inclut le DEI, formation A Quebec et une somme non allouee qui sera disponible seulement si le plan d'action est approuve par le GDD (voir budget provisoire de la  oC
composante)                                                                                                                                .t



4.2.1 Cadre logique ST-200: Secretariat, Suivi et Analyse du PAS (CAPAS)
Sommaire                                     Indicateurs Objective-ment              Moyens de                             Suppositions critiques
Vefifiables                    verification
Objectif du gouvernement:
Mettre  en   oeuvre  des  reformes  -Taux de croissance reel du PIB de 3%   Rapports du FMI             Volonte du gouvernement de prendre tes decisions difticles et de
economiques au cours de la periode  I'an a compter de 1997.                                             mettre en oeuvre les reformes requises
1996-2000   visant   a   creer   un                                             Rapports du CAPAS
environnement macro-economique stable  - Le deficit des comptes exterieurs (hors                        La formation brute de capital fixe passe de 102% du PIB en 1995
permettant le retour de la croissance   dons) passe de 17.9% du PIB en 1995 a                           a 16%  en 2000 (Reprise des investis-sements des -randes
economique et de 1'emploi, 1'equilibre des   12.5% en 2000.                                             entreprises publiques (electricite, eau. port, aeroport et telecom )
comptes  exterieurs  ainsi  que  le                                                                     et reprise des investis-sements prives en telecom. banques et
soulagement de la pauvrete             -En I'an 2000, les reserves exterieures de                       assurances.
Djibouti correspondent a une couverture
des besoins equivalant a 5.7 mois (4 8                          Elimination des arrieres ct dettes croisees fin 1996.
n,ots en 1995), sans arrieres interieUis OLI
exterieurs.                                                     L'eparone nationale brute passe de 4% do i'lB eni 1995 a 100o eii
2000
- Maintien du taux d'inflation a 3 .U entre
1996-1999.                                                      Reforme des politiques, pratiques et performance fiscales.
-Reduction du deficit fiscal (hors dons)                        Reforme des entreprises publiques menee a terme
dc 13 4%,'o du PI3 a I 1% en 1999
Demobilisation de 9000militaires avant la mi-199S
-Maintien de la politique monetaire.
Reforme de lIadinifistration publique ct reduction de la Imease
salariale (hors miliiaires)
_rt
0 



Sonimaire                                      Indicateurs Objective-menit                Moyens de                              Suppositions critiques
Velifiables                      verification
But du projet
Appuver la prise de dceision par le  -Tableau de bord (indicateurs de suivi  CopiC des documenits   - Reunions mensuelles (au moins) do Comite de Pilotage du PAS.
gouvernement en  ce qui touche  les  rapproche l'evolution de l'economie et  produits    par    la
reformes macro-cconomiques et le cadre   des  rformies)  mensuel  fourni  aux   CAPAS                         -L-a CAPAS  est dotee du personnel minimum  identitie a
des politiques et programme qui les sous-   memilbres do CPS-PAS  et aux aLitiCs                              'organigeamme de la cellule dans le plan de gestion du projer
tendent en faisant on soivi rapproche de  intervenants.                             Rapports  paiodiqUes   d'appui sous financement de la B[anque Mondiale.
I'evolution des refonnes et en mobilisan:  -Analyse       trimestrielle       (et  de  soivi  du  "Task
les ressources et 1'expertise necessaires   recommandations le cas echeant) de   manager" de la Banqoc   -Peu ou pas de rotation du personnel de la CAI'AS aL cours de la
pour aider a toninuler des politiques et  I'evolution de l'cconomie et des retormes   Mondiale.               periodc 1996-1999.
reforines approprices.                    par rapport aux objectifs de la politique a
moven    terme    ( I 996-2000)    do   Rapport  trimilestriels  -Recruterment d'expertise ponctuelle nationale et internatnonale de
goovernement fourni aux membrbes do   d'avancement           des   qualite.
CPS-PAS et aux autres intervenants.       travaux de la C'AI'AS
-Analyses ponctoelles sur l'impact de   soumis a la Banque   -Coordonnateur de la CAPAS exerce un role de direction an scin
refonmes specifiques et propositions de   Mondiale    par   lc  de la cellule et assure que les ressources de la cellule orit un
decisions.                                coordonateur  de  la  programme de travail et le realise.
- Propositions de reformes de politiques   CAPAS.
et programmes ainsi que de decisions
specifiques a prendre dans ce cadre
foumies aux membres du CPS-PAS (e.g.
reformes entreprises. clainie recettes et
depenses etc).
-Mise  en   eouvre   d'un   plan   de
communications et sensibilisation pour
faciliter 'identification,  'adoption et la
mise e*n ocuvre des chan-enents.
Extranits:
- Modeles proposes (contenu, format ct
Cadre de suivi et collecte des donnees   periodicitc: mensuelle. trimestrielle et  Rapports  pcriodiques   Approbation du cadre de suivi par le CPS-PAS.                          p>
(ST-210)                                  annuelle)   par  la   CAI'AS   poor  de la CAPAS.
approbation par le comite de pilotage finn
Conceptioti  du  cadre  de  soivi des   octobre 1996.                                                                                                                             ocX
reformnes (S 1-21 11 )



Sommaire                                     Indicateurs Objective-ment                Moyens de                             Suppositions critiques
Wfifiables                      verification
Collecte et traitement des indicateurs de  -Identification, collecte  et traitement  Rapport de mission du   -Statisticien ou economiste mis a la disposition de la CAPAS ou
suivi (ST-212)                          statistique et informatique des donnees  "Task manager" de la   recrute par cetne derniere.
conformement  au  cadre  de  suivi  Banque Mondiale.
developpe en ST-21 1.                                            -Collaboration  efficace  avec  les differentes  organisations
susceptibles de foiurniir l'infornnlation.
-Au besoin, saisie et resolution de tout problemes de collaboration
avec ces organisation par le CPS-PAS.
Analyse/synthese (ST-220)
Tableau de bord mensuel (ST-221)        -Tableau de bord mensuel de l'economie,  Rapports de la           -Disponibilite des donnees requises (ST-212)
produit le 20 du mois et couvrant le mois  CAPAS
precedent.
Note synthese (ST-222)                  - Note produite 45 jours apresla fin du
trimestre (voir ST-21 1).
Rapport annuel (ST-223)                 - Rapport sur l'evolution des reformes
produit 60 joursapres la fin de l'ann6e
fiscale (voir ST-21 1).
Etudes et recomandations (ST-230)
Compte-rendudes
Identification des besoins d'etudes et  -Propositions formulees au CPS-PAS par  reunions du CPS-PAS   -Propositions acceptees par le CAPAS
d'analyse complementairesen fonction de  la CAPAS ou directement par le CPS-
1'evolution des differentes reforrnes et des  PAS.
recommandations decoulant de l'analyse
de  l'environnement institutionnel(ST-  -Preparation des termesde reference par
231)                                    la CAPAS ou en collaborationavec elle.  -Documentations et
-Approbation des TDR par le president  dossiers internes du
Realisation des etudes et analyses (ST-  du CPS-PAS et, le cas echeant, la Banque  CAPAS                                                                                      >
232)                                    Mondiale selon les proceduresen vigueur.
-Approbation par le president du CPS-PAS                            n
-Non objection de la Banque Mondiale



Sommaire                                     Indicateurs Objective-ment               Moyens de                            Suppositions critiques
Vefiflables                    verification
-Mobilisation  de  lexpertise  par  la  -Contrats               -Capacite a trouver et mobiliser de lexpertise qualifiee et
CAPAS.                                                          disponible en temps voulu.
-Realisation du/des mandat(s) par le ou
les experts(s).
-Suivi et reception de l'etudc par la
CAPAS en collaboration avec les autres
organismes impliques le cas echeant.
Exploitation de etudes et analyses (ST-   -Le cas echeant, dissemination de l'etude                     -Volonte des membres du CPS-PAS de disseminer
233)                                    par la CAPAS aux intervenants clefs.                            l'infon-nation.
-Preparation (ou coordination de la
preparation) des recommandations et de                          -Cooperation des autres intervenants
decision  de mise ne oeuvre par la
CAPAS pour le CPS-PAS.
Le cas echeant, appui a la mise en
oeuvre des recommandations. Le suivi
par la CAPAS de la mise en oeuvre est
inclu dans l'extrant de niveau ST-220.
Secretariat du CPS-PAS (ST-240)         -Convocations et ordres du jour des  Rapports de la
reunions dont un des items permanents  CAPAS                    -Volonte des membres du CPS-PAS a se reunir
sera        le      suivi        des
decisions/recommandations anterieures  Rapport de suivi du
du comite.                              "Task manager` de la
-Fourniture de la documentation requise   Banque Mondiale
aux membres du comite.
-Compte-rendus des reunions du comite
prepares et achemnines aux membres et                                                                                             >
Ort
autres intervenants interesses                                                                                                 DQ r
or
..- -



Sommaire                                     Indicateurs Objective-ment               Moyens de                             Suppositions critiques
Vefifiables                    verification
Communications/liaisons (ST-250)
Strat6gie/plan de communuication (ST-    -Preparation  par la CAPAS  (assit&c   Rapports pcriodiques    -Adoption de la strategie par le CPS-PAS
251)                                    d'expertise ponctuelle internationale) et  de la CAPAS
adoption par le CPS-PAS d'une strategie
et d'un plan de communication pour
faciliter l'identificationet la mise en
oeuvre des reformes avant la fin dec.
1996.
Communications aux "politiques" (ST-   -Seminaires, publications, presentations,                         -Possibilite de recruter un conseiller local competent
252)                                    formations aux membres du cabinet, de                           -Maintien de la volonte politique d'ouverture et de transparence
I'assemblee nationale ou du cabinet
presidentiel pour faciliter l'identification
de resistances aux changements et la
diminution de ces resistances.
-Seminaires, publications, presentations.                       Idem
Communications au sein du MFEN          formations au personnel de la CAPAS.
(ST-253)                                des autres services du MFEN  pour
faciliter l'identification de resistances
aux changements et la diminution de ces
resistances.
Seminaires, publications, presentations,                        Idem
Communications avec les autres          formations au  personnel des autres
ministeres (ST-254)                     ministeres pour faciliter lidentification
de resistances aux changetnents et la
diminution de ces resistances.
Ort
o00
'5
o0



Sommaire                                    Indicateurs Objective-ment             Moyens de                            Suppositions critiques
Vefifiables                   verification
Communications avec les intervenants   -Seminaires, publications, presentations,                     Idem
de la societe civile (ST-255)          formations aux diverses composantes de
la  societe  civile  (secteur  prive,
entreprises publiques, groupes constitues,
population   etc)  pour      faciliter
l'identification    de  resistances  aux
changements et la diminution de ces
Liaison/coordination avec les          resistances.
bailleursde fonds (ST-256)                                                                           Idem
-Dissemination des tableaux de bord
mensuels,  analyse  trimestrielle  de
conjoncture et rapport annuel.
Idem
-Coordination   avec  les  differents
bailleurs de fonds pour assurer qu'il n'y a
pas de dedoublement des efforts quant
aux etudes et analyses envisagees
(discussion des TDR).
-Perception des bailleurs de fonds quant
A l'evolution des reformes.
Intrants:
Rapports annuels
Personnel:                                                                    d'audit
Expertise ponctuelle:                                                         Mission de
Equipement:                                                                   supervision de la
Fonctionnement:                              .                                Banque Mondiale
Divers:                                   Voir budget                         Accord de credit
Total:
(voir le budget pour details)
Plan de mise en oeuvre du projet CAPAS, Djibouti, ebauche no 2, 30 juin 1996               Page 35
Hrt



Appui au suivi de la reforme des entreprises publiques
Impact (Indicateurs de succes)          Moyens de verification              Hypothese critiques (risques)
But du Gouvernement:                   -Les dettes croisees accumulees entre le  -Budget de l'Etat.                 -Opposition politique aux changements
Rationaliser le secteur parapublic et   gouve-nement et les entreprisesjusqu'au  -Decrets d'application.            de la loi 91.
ameliorer la contribution des EP au     3 1/12/95 auront ete apurees d'ici le   -Contrat-plans signes.             -Opposition des dirigeants des EP au
developpement economique par des        31/12/98.                               -Decrets politiques.                changement de statu juridique.
reformes qui leur permettront de realiser  -Aucune nouvelle dette croisee (de plus   -Bilans financiers des entreprises    -Impossibilite pour le gouvernement de
des performances techniques et          de 3 mois) ne sera permise entre le     publiques.                          regler ses dettes envers les entreprises
financieres satisfaisantes et desengager   gouvemement et les entreprise        -Decrets de reorganisation.         publiques et celle-ci entre elles.
I'Etat d'activites qui seront mieux gerees  publiques et entre les entreprises  -Decrets promulgues                 Manque de ressources financieres pour
par le secteur prive.                   publiques a partir de 1/1/99.           -Rapports annuels de contr6le.     regler ce problme.
-Le cadre institutionnel etjuridique des   -Contrats de privatisation ou de  -non-approbation des
entreprises publiques aura ete modifie    liquidation signes.               recommandations des rapports
selon les decisions prises par le      -Loi modifiee promulguee.            d'experts.
gouvernement, base sur les              -Statuts des entreprises publiques.   -Manque de volonte politique pour
recommandations d'un expert             -Liste reclassifiant les entreprises    effectuer les changements
-Les decisions sur le changement de     publiques.                         instituitionnels.
statut des entreprises publiques seront
prises au 31/3/97, base sur les audits et
les etudes juridiques.
-Approbation et choix de strategie de
redressement et de gestions de
entreprises publiques
-Une serie d'indicateurs de performance
adoptees par le gouvernement et chaque
entreprise publique conformrment aux
diagnostics et plans de developpement.
Objectifs du projet:                                                            -Rapports d'experts.                -Comite de pilotage joue le r6le
Supporter la prise de decision du       -Qualite et "timeliness" des            -Seminaires de sensibilisation.     critique de diriger la CAPAS.
gouvernement en ce qui a trait A la    recommandations fournies au Comite de  -Preparation de recommandations    -Pas de changement des membres de
reforme des entreprises publiques par la  pilotage.                             par la CAPAS pour le Comite de      l'USREP pour la duree du projet.
fourniture d'expertise technique, appui A  -Sensibilisation des divers parties  pilotage.                           -Les rapports des experts sont d'une
la communication et un appui restreint   impliquees dans la prise de decision:  -Rapports d'avancement du projet.   qualite permettant au gouvernement
au renforcement des capacites de l'Unite  autorites gouvernementales, le        -Aide-memoire des missions de       d'avoir confiance de prendre ses        G 
de suivi de la r6forme (USREP).         personnel des entreprises publiques, le   supervision de la Banque.         decisions.
secteur prive et les consommateurs.     -Rapport de revue de mi-parcours   _
0 :



Impact (Indicateurs de succes)         Moyens de verification            Hypothese critiques (risques)
(mid-term review).
Resultats:                                                                   -Rapports techniques et d'audits   -La CAPAS ne suit pas d'assez pres la
Expertise technique:                                                         compltes.                          reforme des entreprises publiques.
Reforme cadre juridique des EP        -Proposition de reformes de la loi 91  -Rapports de la CAPAS au comite   -L'assistance technique specialis6e
-Identification et formulation de     completees et transmise au comite de   de pilotage.                       n'est pas fournie dans les delais prevus.
reforme du cadre juridique et          pilotage par le CAPAS avant le 31     -Proces-verbaux des reunions du    -mauvaise selection de l'assistance
institutionnel.                       decembre 1996.                         comite de pilotage.                technique.
Dettes croisees                       -Proposition pour la reforme des statuts  -Rapports mensuels d'activites de    -manque de coordination USREP et
--Analyse des dettes croisees/plan de  des EP completee et transmise au      I'USREP.                           ministeres techniques.
reglement.                            comite de pilotage par la CAPAS avant   -Rapports annuels des resultats   -opposition des dirigeants ou du
Amelioration de la gestion du         la fin de mars 1997.                   (quantifies) de la reforme.        personnel des EP aux plans de
portefeuille                          -Recommandations par la CAPAS sur le                                      redressement et aux objectifs de
-Systeme d'information fiable a jour  rapport des dettes croisees transmises au                                 performance.
grace a une base de donnees fiables sur   comite de pilotage avant le 31/07/96.
les EP alimentee par des donnees      -Recommandations de la CAPAS au
presentees avec I'application d'un plan    comite de pilotage concemant
comptable uniformise (1982).           I'application generalisee du plan
Amdlioration des performances des EP    comptable de 1982 d'ici dec. 1997.
-Audits financiers et comptables de   -Suivi de la presentation des etats
chaque entreprise publique et         comptables dans les delais 1egaux par
identification d'objectifs de performance  notification du non-respect d'ici dec.
et mesures pour les atteindre.         1997.
Desengagement de l'Etat               -Recommandations au comite de
-Identification et appui au programme    pilotage concernant la normalisation des
de desengagement.                     procedures budgetaires dans les EP et
instauration de contr6le de gestion d'ici
dec. 1997.
-Quatre cadres ayant requ une formation
de courte duree au droit des societes,
-Developpement des capacites de       methodologie de la reforme des
lI'USREP:                             entreprises publiques, contr6le de
-Formations specialisees pour les cadres  gestion et base de donnees, contrats-                                                                            >
de l'Unite et des ministeres et        plans des EP, techniques d'evaluation et
entreprises publiques.                 privatisation.                                                                                                   - a.
-Voyage d'etude.                       -Comptables des EP formes au plan     w__ 
0
r-.



Impact (Indicateurs de succes)        Moyens de verification            Hypothese critiques (risques)
-Appui general A lUnite               comptable de 1982,
-Cadres ayant re,u de l'assistance                                      -L'Unite conservera 4 cadres qualifies
technique d'appoint (preparation de                                     pendant toute la duree du projet.
TDR des etudes, controle des                                           -L'expertise technique aura aussi une
consultants extemes, exploitation des                                   expertise pedagogique.
rapports, etc (Juil.96-Mai 97).      -Rapports d'evaluation de la
-Instances gouvemementales mieux      formation re,ue.
informees et pretes A collaborer A la  -Rapports des cadres sur le voyage
reforme.                              d'etudes en Afrique.
-Public infornm  du programme de     -Rapports de l'expert relativement a
reforrnes du gouvemement.             ses missions d'appui general.
-Rapports periodiques de l'USREP.
-Brochures. Seminaires. Bulletins
Communication:                                                              periodiques d'information.
-Publications sur la reforme des                                            Couverture mediatique et annonce
entreprises publiques.                                                      de desengagement ou changements
-Communications intra-                                                      importants dans le secteur des
gouvernementales et extra-                                                  entreprises publiques
gouvemementales.
Intrants:                                                                                                     -L'USREP sera equipee de moyens
-Consultants                                                                -Contrats de consultants.         materiels pour fonctionner
-Formation (USREP et autres                                                 -Rapports de formation.           efficacement et ils lui seront
beneficiaires)                        Voir budget detaille du projet        -Publications et seminaires       exclusivement alloues.
-Equipement                                                                 -Bons de commande et autres
preuves d'achat.
Po    rt
ro 
o  !



Demobilisation des anciens combattants
Description                     Impact (Indicateurs              Moyens de verification           Hypotheses critiques (risques)
objectivement verifiables)
But du Gouvernement: Reduire  -Une reduction du deficit de 1.8 %  -Crit&res de performance du FMI.  -Financement disponibles des
en permanence la masse salariale   du PIB en 1998.               -Rapports de mission du FMI.     bailleurs de fonds.
et de ce fait degager des       -Demobilisation de 9086 soldats   -Audits du Programme de         -Sans assistance des bailleurs de
ressources A affecter aux secteur   pour la fin de 1998.         demobilisation.                  fonds, le Gouvernement allouera
sociaux prioritaires.                                            -Rapports de mission de suivi de   les fonds necessaires du budget
la Banque mondiale.             pour effectuer lui-meme a un
-Rapports periodiques du PDAC A  rythme plus lent la
la CAPAS.                       demobilisation.
Les moyens mis a la disposition
du bureau du PDAC sont utilises
pour demobiliser les 9086 soldats.
Objectif du Projet: Foumir les   -Bureau de la demobilisation    -Audits a tous les deux mois des   -Programme de demobilisation
outils et I'appui administratif  etabli avec des procedures      fonds d6penses par le programme.  des anciens combattants (PDAC)
necessaire pour que le          financieres bien detaill6es.     -Rapports de mission de suivi de   decrit en detail dans un document
Gouvernement demobilise les     -Programme d'orientation des     I'IDA.                           et acceptable a l'IDA. Entre
forces armees avec ou sans l'aide   anciens combattants mis en   -Rapports periodiques du PDAC a  autres, ce document decrira les
des bailleurs de fonds.         oeuvre.                         la CAPAS.                         objectifs et les cibles du
-Systeme de gestion de          -Rapport de levaluation          programme ainsi que les moyens
l'information permettant de tracer  independante.                d'y parvenir et confirmera le
les mouvements des anciens                                       nombre de soldats A d6mobiliser
combattants demobilises.                                         ainsi que leur prime de depart.
-Procedures detaillees dans le
PDAC seront transparentes et
efficaces et gen6reront la
participation des bailleurs de
fonds.
-Le Gouvemement est engage A
mettre en oeuvre le PDAC de
fa,on efficace et transparente avec
ou sans aide exterieure.         t
PQ rr
o .



Impact (Indicateurs de succes)        Moyens de verification            Hypothese critiques (risques)
-Appui general A l'Unite              comptable de 1982,
-Cadres ayant recu de l'assistance                                      -L'Unite conservera 4 cadres qualifies
technique d'appoint (preparation de                                     pendant toute la duree du projet.
TDR des etudes, contr6le des                                           -L'expertise technique aura aussi une
consultants extemes, exploitation des                                   expertise pedagogique.
rapports, etc (Juil.96-Mai 97).      -Rapports d'evaluation de la
-Instances gouvernementales mieux     formation recue.
informees et pretes A collaborer A la  -Rapports des cadres sur le voyage
reforme.                              d'etudes en Afrique.
-Public informe du programme de      -Rapports de l'expert relativement A
reformes du gouvernement.             ses missions d'appui general.
-Rapports periodiques de l'USREP.
-Brochures. Seminaires. Bulletins
Communication:                                                              periodiques d'information.
-Publications sur la reforme des                                            Couverture mediatique et annonce
entreprises publiques.                                                      de desengagement ou changements
-Communications intra-                                                      importants dans le secteur des
gouvemementales et extra-                                                   entreprises publiques
gouvemementales.
Intrants:                                                                                                     -L'USREP sera equipee de moyens
-Consultants                                                                -Contrats de consultants.         materiels pour fonctionner
-Formation (USREP et autres                                                 -Rapports de formation.           efficacement et ils lui seront
beneficiaires)                        Voir budget detaille du projet        -Publications et seminaires       exclusivement alloues.
-Equipement                                                                 -Bons de commande et autres
preuves d'achat.
>
0 O
o u
H_ r



Demobilisation des anciens combattants
Description                    Impact (Indicateurs             Moyens de verification          Hypotheses critiques (risques)
objectivement v6rifiables)
But du Gouvernement: Reduire  -Une reduction du deficit de 1.8 %  -Criteres de performance du FMI.  -Financement disponibles des
en permanence la masse salariale  du PIB en 1998.              -Rapports de mission du FMI.    bailleurs de fonds.
et de ce fait degager des      -Demobilisation de 9086 soldats   -Audits du Programme de       -Sans assistance des bailleurs de
ressources a affecter aux secteur   pour la fin de 1998.       demobilisation.                 fonds, le Gouvemement allouera
sociaux prioritaires.                                          -Rapports de mission de suivi de   les fonds necessaires du budget
la Banque mondiale.            pour effectuer lui-meme a un
-Rapports periodiques du PDAC A  rythme plus lent la
la CAPAS.                       demobilisation.
Les moyens mis A la disposition
du bureau du PDAC sont utilises
pour demobiliser les 9086 soldats.
Objectif du Projet: Fournir les   -Bureau de la d6mobilisation  -Audits A tous les deux mois des   -Programme de demobilisation
outils et l'appui administratif  etabli avec des procedures    fonds depenses par le programme.  des anciens combattants (PDAC)
necessaire pour que le         financieres bien detaillees.    -Rapports de mission de suivi de   decrit en detail dans un document
Gouvemement demobilise les     -Programme d'orientation des    l'IDA.                          et acceptable A l'IDA. Entre
forces armees avec ou sans l'aide   anciens combattants mis en  -Rapports periodiques du PDAC A  autres, ce document decrira les
des bailleurs de fonds.        oeuvre.                         la CAPAS.                       objectifs et les cibles du
-Systeme de gestion de         -Rapport de l'evaluation        programme ainsi que les moyens
l'information permettant de tracer  independante.              d'y parvenir et confirmera le
les mouvements des anciens                                     nombre de soldats a demobiliser
combattants demobilises.                                       ainsi que leur prime de depart.
-Procedures detaillees dans le
PDAC seront transparentes et
efficaces et genereront la
participation des bailleurs de
fonds.
-Le Gouvemement est engage A
mettre en oeuvre le PDAC de
fa,on efficace et transparente avec
ou sans aide exterieure.
eQ rr
m~ r



Description                   Impact (Indicateurs             Moyens de verification         Hypotheses critiques (risques)
objectivement verifiables)
Activites:                     -Personnel du PDAC formes d'ici  -Rapports de fin de mission des    -L'auditeur independant aura
-Mise en oeuvre du programme de  fevrier 1997.                consultants.                   acces a toute l'information
demobilisation des anciens     -Programme d'orientation avant   -Manuels de formation.       necessaire pour completer ses
combattants (PDAC).            demobilisation (POAD) concu et  -Manuel de procedures         audits a tous les deux mois.
-Suivi du PDAC                 formation completee d'ici fevrier  financieres.               -Les operations du bureau du
-Evaluation independante du    1997.                          -Rapports de mission de suivi de   PDAC seront bien etablies et
PDAC.                          -Systeme de gestion de         la Banque mondiale.            fonctionneront de facon
l'information (SGI) conqu et   -Rapports d'audits a tous les deux  transparente et sans interference.
formation completee d'ici fevrier   mois.                     -Le personnel suivra a la lettre les
1997.                         -Rapports periodiques du bureau   procedures financieres a la lettre.
-Procedures de contr6le financier  du PDAC a la CAPAS.        -Le POAD sera mis en oeuvre
conSues d'ici fevrier 1997.    -Rapport d'evaluation de la    conformement a la conception qui
-Audits externes demarrent a   composante.                    en a et faite.
partir d'avril 1997 a tous les deux
mois pour la duree du PDAC.
-Suivi periodique des missions de
l'IDA.
-Evaluation completee en janvier
1999 ou un mois apres la fin du
PDAC.
Intrants:                      Voir budget
-Assistance technique de courte                               -Contrats signes pour les      -Disponibilite de l'expertise
duree.                                                        consultants d'ici la fin decembre   technique requise.
-Formation.                                                   1996.                          -Le Gouvernement alloue les
-Materiel de bureau et vehicules.                             -Contrat signe pour les services    fonds necessaires pour la
-Cofits de fonctionnement                                     d'audit independants avant le ler   demobilisation et egalement
supplementaires.                                              mars 1997.                     foumit tel que prevu sa
-Communication                                                -Equipement achete d'ici la fin de  contribution au projet.
-Contribution du Gouvemement.                                 decembre 1996.                 -Personnel (fonctionnaires et non-
-Personnel du PDAC embauche    fonctionnaires) identifie ou
d'ici la fin de decembre 1996.  embauche pour la mise en oeuvre     n
M0 t



Description                     Impact (Indicateurs            Moyens de verification          Hypotheses critiques (risques)
objectivement verifiables)
-Publications et articles publies    du programme.
sur le PDAC.                   -Le Gouvemement fait part de sa
strategie de mise en oeuvre:
-avec participation des bailleurs
de fonds; et
-sans participation des bailleurs de
fonds.
t:



Attachment 2
Page 1 of I
Liste des Entreprises Publiques a Djibouti
EPPA (Etablissements Publics Productifs Autonomes)
AID: aeroport international de Djibouti
CDE: chemin de fer Djibouto-Ethiopien
EDD: electricite de Djibouti
OPT: office des postes et telecommunications
ONED: office national des eaux de Djibouti
PAID: port autonome international de Djibouti
SE (Societes d'Etat)
LDJ: laiterie de Djibouti
PI: pharmacie de l'independance
SEET: societe d'exploitation des eaux de Tadjourah
SAB: societe des aliments du betail
SHED: socidte hoteliere de Djibouti
EPAC (Etablissements Publics Administratifs et Culturels)
CMR: caisse militaire de retraite
CPS: caisse de prestations sociales
EPH: dtablissement public des hydrocarbures
IN: imprimerie nationale
ISERT: centre de recherches
ONAC: office national d'approvisionnement et de commercialisation
ONARC:
ONTA: office du tourisme
P.P: palais du peuple
SMI: service medical inter entreprises
S.N: stade national
Etablissements Financiers
BDD: banque de developpement de Djibouti
SID: societe inunobiliere de Djibouti



Attachment 3
Page 1 of 2
Cellule d'appui a I'ajustement structurel
(juin 1996-aouit 1997)
Coordinateur*
Homologue
Secretaire                     Conseiller*
|Local Communiation
| Secretaire                  Aur pesne de
l        l            | ~~~~~~soutien (si necessaire)|
Suivi/Analyse           |Rforme des EP                  Administration*
PAS
Macroeconomiste              Conseiller en                 Comptable*
Statisticien                 gestion
Secteur Sociaux              Conseiller en
gestion
Conseiller en
gestion
* Personnel finance par le projet



Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
Cellule d'appui a I'ajustement structurel
(Sept. 1997 - dec. 1999)
Coordinateur*
Homologue
Secretaire                     Conseiller*
PAS
Secretaire                     Conseiller*
l        l            | ~~~~~Local communication|
Suivi/Analyse               Reforme des EP              Administration*
PAS
Macro6conomiste               Conseiller en                Comptable*
Statisticien                 gestion
Secteur Sociaux              Conseiller en
gestion
Conseiller en
gestion
* Personnel financ6 par le projet



Attachment 4
Page 1 of 1
Compositon du Comite de pilotage du programme d'ajustement structurel
Ministre des finances et de 1'economie nationale
Ministre de l'industrie
Ministre de la defense
Ministre des transports
Ministre du commerce
Ministre des affaires etrangeres
Ministre de la justice
Ministre de la fonction publique
Ministrre du travail
Ministre de l'interieur
Gouverneur de la Banque de Djibouti
Secretaire general du gouvemement
Representant de la Presidence (Chef et Directeur du Cabinet)



Attachment 5
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR ECONOMIC REFORM PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SUMMARY
Principal activities         Results          Performance indicators       Deadline
Institutional reform: To  Participants' consensus   Action plan formulated by   June 1997
perform an institutional   on an action plan for the  the National Committee for
assessment (IA).        civil service reform   the Reform and transmitted
to the SAP -Steering
Committee
Institutional reform: To  Prioritized interventions  Action plan approved by  August 1997
translate the action plan   for IDA and other   the SAP -Steering
into a specific course of   stakeholders according    Committee
actions with responsible   to the agreed-upon
ministries and resources   Action Plan
identified
Structural adjustment   Performance reports     Data collected and        Monthly
program monitoring:    (monitoring indicators    processed (statistics and
To design a reform      for economic progress    data processing) in
framework and to collect  and reform) provided to  accordance with the
data                    the SAP -Steering       developed monitoring
Committee              framework
Structural adjustment   Improved analysis of    * Performance report      Monthly
program monitoring:    economic progress and     produced on the 20th of
reform in relation to   each month for the
To analyze data and     long-term political      preceding month.
synthesize data related to  objectives (1996-2000)   * Summary note on    45 days after the
the structural adjustment                        economic progress        end of each
program                                                                   quarter
. Report on reform        Monthly
progress
Structural adjustment   National counterpart    SMC managed by the        September 1997
program monitoring: To  gradually assumes       national counterpart with
train the national      management of SMC       the international expert as
counterpart                                     advisor
Structural adjustment   Better understanding of  . Approved strategy and  March 1997
program monitoring: To  SAP and economic         communication plan.
carry out communication  reform generally within   * Seminars, publications,    Periodically after
activities              the government and civil  presentations and training  strategy's
society                 (political, administrative,  approval
institutional and civil  (quarterly) or as
society stakeholders)   needed
Demobilization: To carry  About 8,500           . Orientation program     February 1997
out demobilization      demobilized military     designed, and training
program                 staff at the end of the  completed
program                . Management information   February 1997
system and financial



Attachment 5
Page 2 of 2
Principal activities         Results          Performance indicators       Deadline
management procedures
in place
Positive external audit  Every two
carried out             months
PE Reform:              Institutional and legal    Status of PEs revised  January 1997
to reform the PE's legal   framework approved
framework
PE Reform:              Cross-debts settled     Recommendations on the    January 1997
To prepare payment plan                         cross-debt report are
for cross-debts                                 analyzed and transmitted to
the SAP -Steering
Committee for decision
PE Reform:              * Reliable and up-to-   * Recommendations on the   December 1997
To manage better the PE   date information       enforcement of the chart
portfolio                 system through a       of accounts for 1982 for
database on PEs        all PEs
* Standardized chart of   * Monitoring the       December 1997
accounts (1982)        submission of financial
statements within the
legal deadlines by
notification of
delinquency
PE Reform:              Action plan proposals    Financial and accounting    December 1997
To improve the          presented to the Steering  audit of every public
performance of the PEs    Committee             enterprise,
recommendations for
performance goals and
prescribed measures to
obtain them
PE Reform:              State-owned enterprises   * Liquidation or evaluation   December 1997
To sell off or liquidate    sold or liquidated   studies completed
some PEs                                        * Proposals to the Steering
Committee on the
companies to be
privatized or liquidated



.BRD 23069R
R-                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~30'                                            O3P0O                                        REPUBLIC    I
11 T,                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF  -
ER TihA  '-            0         RPIICYEMEN   ('  -.
-~~        $             OF                                                                                                                                                                                to>O-
0    YEMEN                                                                                                                                      -
0<                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~ERITREA                                                               Bt lMea
ETY CP.A                 t,         Aa              o'                                                                                                              '
SOMsoALIA                                                                                                            "'
'h, W,,- 1, k-                                              /           O0-, '                                 oCKa
Th.e Woo d B. Gk
Jr  Ito 'roor.ao   oorot,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R      
tnr,,oror,o  toooorOF
Too We rrl foo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Goose  I                                             *;                                                                             F'~~~~~~~~~.k.,   AE
oroeotoooe of o0ro  Edoleh      o.      '<            t>\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
/1RFADJ OF                                                                          -D1OUTI0
2                  BItt                      PLAINLAl
OF 
H-ANJLE                                                                                                                                                      tgd> 
reDIKHlL
0>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
GBAND                SaRA                                                                               D IO                     T
AYE  ~   ~        ~~ PLATEAU            -
ABBE               NO                     '*~~                                                            d ~ \\                /SOMALIA                                            -     Iatp-od E.rth Roads
OSieeptAdCrtot)0                                                                           Ottt, Tr-k,      '-go
-  .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f' ~~~~~~~~G-etes thae  ,000                                                                                                      ----j   galrod
ETHIOPIA                               S0-.00                                               ootd Vilblges 000 To-'  'r... tittot-oa A,rEoo
4001  6 00
Dit-ict Capro.ls
>,trrt'r  rr  to  rr       or                                         ~~~~~~                                            ~~~~~~~~~200 - 400alCarr.S-  ...oa Ieers-  Wools1
o0rr I  r'        o'.                00                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 - 200                                                                 Salt Flat
- --    .mwi-oel B-jdares--             
00Cr ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,28 r SpatE ..o.Laos in Met-t                                                                                                       Dersrhg Wate
DECEMBER1996









[ MAClt4
P e p - r t N .-! : -r      DJ I
Typpe 



