Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2934 DJI
                         Development Credit Agreement
               (Technical Assistance for Economic Reform Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated March 27, 1997
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2934 DJI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 27, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
Page  2
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations.".
     (c)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
          "Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the
          right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
          Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
          amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty
          days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after
          consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the
          Association will not be required to finance the Project's
          cost to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or
          (c) at any time the Association determines, with respect
          to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
          Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged
          in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary
          of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of
          such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely
          and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to
          remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of
          expenditures in respect of such contract which would
          otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
          proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association
          determines that the procurement of any contract to be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent
          with the procedures set forth or referred to in the
          Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of
          expenditures in respect of such contract which would
          otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
          proceeds of the Credit or (e) after the Closing Date, an
          amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the
          Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the
          Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make
          withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving
          of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be
          canceled.".
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MFNE" means the Borrower's Ministre des Finances et de l'
Economie Nationale;
     (c)  "SAP-ISC" means the Borrower's Comit de Pilotage et de Suivi
du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel, established within MFNE pursuant
to Dcret of October 4, 1995;
     (d)  "SMC" means the Borrower's Cellule d'Appui au Programme d'
Ajustement Structurel within MFNE;
     (e)  "MPSAR" means the Borrower's Ministre de la Fonction Publique
et de la Rforme Administrative;
     (f)  "INAP" means Institut National d'Administration Publique,
the Borrower's national public administration training center;
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated March 12, 1996 and March 27, 1996, between
the Borrower and the Association; and
Page  3
     (h)  "Project Year" means the twelve-month period beginning from
the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First
Project Year), and any twelve-month period beginning at the end of
the First Project Year, or the end of subsequent Project Years.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on  May 15 and November 15 each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
Page  4
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing May 15, 2007 and ending November 15, 2036. Each install-
ment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2016
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
for three consecutive years the level established annually by the
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the
first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above
falling six (6) months or more after the date on which the Associa-
tion notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace
period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, managerial, and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Page  5
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                          Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than four months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety days (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
Page  6
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          B.P. 13
          Djibouti
          Republic of Djibouti
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
               By /s/ Robleh Olhaye
                                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  7
(1)  Equipment                  280,000         100% of foreign
     and vehicles                               expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost) and
                                                95% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items procured
                                                locally
(2)  Consultants'              1,820,000        100%
     services
(3)  Training                    950,000        100%
(4)  Operating costs
     (a) Local contractual       400,000        100%
         staff salaries
     (b) Other Operating costs   380,000        95%
(5)  Refunding of Project        280,000        Amount due pursuant
     Preparation                                to Section 2.02 (c) of
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 490,000
                               _________
     TOTAL                     4,600,000
                               =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating
costs incurred by the Borrower under the Project on account of: (i)
travel costs and allowances, (ii) operation and maintenance of
vehicles and equipment, (iii) office rent, furniture, supplies and
utilities; and (iv) salaries of local contractual staff.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and for
services: (i) for firms under contracts not exceeding $50,000, and
(ii) for individuals under contracts not exceeding $25,000 equivalent,
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to strengthen the capacity of the
Borrower to design, and monitor the implementation of programs of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjust-
ment of its economy (the Program).
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:   Program Monitoring
     Strengthening the capacity of SAP-ISC to: (i) prepare, coordinate
and monitor the execution of the Program, (ii) collect, process and
disseminate Program-related information and data, and (iii) design
and implement communication activities aimed at facilitating the
execution of the Program, through provision of technical advisory
services and training, and acquisition of equipment.
Part B:   Institutional Reforms
     Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to prepare and monitor
the implementation of an action plan designed to reduce its wage bill
and to rationalize the operations of its public administration through
provision of training and technical advisory services.
Part C:   Public Enterprise
     Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to: (i) review the
legal and institutional framework governing its public enterprises,
and (ii) prepare and monitor the implementation of a reform program
designed to improve the management of its public enterprises,
including a divestiture program, through provision of technical
advisory services, and acquisition of equipment.
Part D:   Demobilization
     Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to prepare and monitor the
implementation of a program designed to demobilize part of its
military personnel, through provision of technical advisory services
and equipment required for: (i) the establishment of transparent
financial procedures for the demobilization process; (ii) the pre-
paration of a pre-discharge orientation program for soldiers slated
for demobilization; and (iii) the establishment of an information
management system to monitor the living conditions of demobilized
soldiers.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January 1996 and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Page  9
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement from UN Agencies
     Vehicles and computers may be procured from IAPSO in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
     Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association,
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have
been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms accept-
able to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
Page  10
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consult-
ing firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $25,000
equivalent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                           Implementation Program
1.   SMC shall be responsible for the implementation of the Project,
under the overall supervision of the SAP-ISC. The Borrower shall
cause SAP-ISC to meet at least once a month during the implementation
of the Project to review the progress achieved in carrying out the
Project.
2.   Not later than January 1, 1997, the Borrower shall establish a
committee, with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, to prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, an assessment  of the Borrower's institutional framework
of the Borrower's public administration.
3.   The Borrower shall, at all times during the implementation of
the Project, maintain SAP-ISC with composition and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  not later than October 31 of each year, commencing on
October 31, 1997 undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a
joint annual review on all matters relating to the progress of the
Project and in particular: (i) the progress achieved by the Borrower
during the current fiscal year, having regard to the monitoring
indicators referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and (ii)
the work program for the forthcoming fiscal year;
     (c)  not later than one month prior to each annual review,
furnish to the Association, for its comments: (i) a report in such
detail as  the Association shall reasonably request on the progress
of the Project, and (ii) a proposed annual work program, including
a proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal
year;
     (d)  following each annual review, act promptly and diligently
in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy
any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or
to implement such measures as may have been agreed upon between the
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project;
     (e)  prepare under terms of reference, satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about December
31, 1997, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof during the period following such date; and
     (f)  review with the Association, by March 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on
Page  11
the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR2,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association shall,
               on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be
               withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
               under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
               respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
               justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
Page  12
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  13
