Document of
The World Bank                   FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3037-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION IV)
April 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                 0 l26
¢ 1.00                  US$0.008
¢ 1,000                 US$7.94
¢ l,OOO,OOO             US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
IDB    -  Inter-American Development Bank
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -  United States Agency for International Development
UNICEF -  United Nations Interim Children's Emergency Fund
UNFPA  -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Square meter (sqm)                                10.76 square feet
l kilometer (km)                                     0.62 miles
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
February 20 - December 1



PARAGUAY              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION IV)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Government of Paraguay
Loan Amount:         US$17 million equivalent
Loan Terms:          Seventeen years, including four years of grace,
at 9.6 % per annum.
Project              The project would:  (a) establish a school nuclearization
Description:   system for improving education activities in 43 rural
areas and building and/or equipping about 500 schools;
extend the use of multigrade teaching techniques; and
establish non-formal education and training programs for
adults in about 15 central schools which would be provided
with appropriate physical facilities and equipment;
(b) establish a new unit responsible for planning and
implementing in-service teacher training programs;
(c) train and upgrade about 1,800 currently employed
teachers, and introduce incentives for retaining competent
teachers in rural areas; replace an inadequate teacher
training school; complete the evaluation and revision of
curricula and syllabi for primary and lower secondary
education and teacher training; and print and distribute
basic textbooks and teachers' guides; and (d) provide
technical assistance for improving the national education
evaluation and tracer systems; and provide five additional
computer terminals for the Ministry of Education's depart-
ments of planning and personnel.
Project Benefits    The project is expected to make a significant contribution
and Risks:     to the proper development of primary education.  The
educational nuclei would serve some 80,000 rural students
by 1985 (about 25% of total enrollments in rural areas).
The beneficiaries would be (a) 35,000 children in communi-
ties that currently possess no schools or have substandard
schools, and (b) about 45,000 students in schools that
would receive instructional equipment. Furthermore, some
15,000 adults and out-of-school youths would be provided
with education and training facilities and courses adapted
to the productive needs of the local communities. In
addition to new school buildings and equipment, students
would benefit from improved teacher quality through the
training of 1,800 teachers (many of whom can be expected
to serve in project schools), school directors and super-
visors, and through revision of curricula and syllabi.
An improved system of evaluation of student performance
would provide insights regarding the individual and
combined impact of the educational inputs on student
achievement.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Identifiable risks are: (a) the potential underutilization
or shortage of some project facilities if the colonization
and rural development programs are not executed as cur-
rently planned.  This risk can be avoided by constant
monitoring by the Project Implementation Unit of develop-
ment and adjusting of project school size in accordance
with the most recent data; and (b) the possible overloading
of nuclei directors with a number of community functions,
which might reduce their performance regarding super-
vision of teachers in the nuclei schools. Close monitoring
of the pressures on, and performance of, nuclei directors
directors should reveal during project implementation
whether any modification of their assigned functions would
be necessary.
USS (millions)
Estimated Costs:                                        Local   Foreign   Total
1.  Rural School Nuclei          10.51       4.23      14.74
2.  Teacher Training              1.43       0.53       1.96
3.  Curriculum Development        0.11       0.03      0.14
4.  Textbook Production           0.26       0.28       0.54
5. Improvement of Education
Planning, Statistics         0.33      0.37       0.70
6.  Project Management            1.10       0.31       1.41
Base Cost             13.74       5.75      19.49
Contingencies          7.92       2.82      10.74
Physical               1.36       0.54       1.90
Price                  6.56       2.28       8.84
Total Project Cost   21.66 _/   8.57 1/  30.23 1/
(19.81)2/  (8.57)2/ (28.38)2/
Financing Plan:   The project cost of US$28.4 million would be financed as
follows: (a) the proposed Bank loan of US$17.0 million (60%
of total project cost) would meet 100% of foreign exchange
costs and about 42% of local costs; and (b) the Government
would finance the remaining cost of US$11.4 million (40% of
total project cost).
Estimated                           FY  1982      1983        1984    1985    1986
Disbursements:                        --(US$ million)-------------
Annual              0.2       1.5        8.5       5.1     1.7
Cumulative           -        1.7       10.2     15.3    17.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 3302b-PA, dated April 20, 1981
1/   Including local taxes and duties.
2/   Net of taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPTJBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
RURAL PRIMARY EDIUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION IV)
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$17.0 million to assist
in financing the Rural Primary Education Project. The Loan would have a
term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 9.6 %.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in November 1980 and the up-
dating economic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, will be
distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The following discussion
is based on the findings of this mission. The last economic report "Economic
Memorandum on Paraguay" (2461-PA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
in May 1979.
Economic Performance
3.        ParaRuay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport network. For many decades, per
capita income and employment grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet
for unemployed and underemployed manpower. More recently, however, the
economy has been growing rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to
neighboring countries have returned, responding to the expanded employment
opportunities associated with the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore,
the expansion of the agricultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of
farmers from abroad. Nevertheless, the country's population density remains
very low in relation to agricultural land (2.8 ha of cultivable land per capita).
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully realized
during the 1970's. With the rapid expansion of land under cultivation, and
the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil and Argentina,
Paraguay's economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation. A rise in
external demand and favorable prices were instrumental in accelerating agri-
cultural growth, while exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has
1/   This part is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the Livestock Development Project (No. P-3018-PA,
dated April 7, l181).



- 2 -
been made possible by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two
binational authorities for the construction and operation of two hydroelectric
plants, with a third in the planning stage, aggregating at least 17,000 MW.
Construction of the Itaipu dam with Brazil, the largest ever built, is on
schedule, and the Yacyreta dam with Argentina, supported by Bank financing,
is about to begin. In the agricultural sector after an exceptional performance
in 1977, a drought in 1978 affected production of soybeans, and in 1979 flood-
ings led to low cotton yields. Preliminary data for 1980 indicate a recovery
with an expected sector growth rate close to 9%. Paraguay's share of expendi-
tures related to the construction of the Itaipu hydroelectric project averaged
US$200 million, or 30% of domestic investment, during the last three years
(1977-79) and in turn stimulated the construction and services sectors, which
grew at average annual rates of 31% and 12%, respectively, over the period.
As a result the Paraguayan economy has maintained a growth rate of over 10%
per year during the last three years.
5.        The effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture has been
assisted by improvements in transport and implementation of a set of programs
designed to increase and diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural
growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the real incomes of
the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A
significant share of production of cotton, and soybeans, which account for
most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers, many of whom have
received land under Government and privately sponsored colonization programs.
Moreover, rural wages have recently increased sharply in many areas where
demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of
agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. Per capita income grew
at 5.3% per annum during 1972-79 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the
previous 30 years. Growth in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other
improvements in the standard of living, as life expectancy and literacy have
increased, and child mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable
to those found in countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in
recent years, the Government has started to carry out a series of programs
aimed at extending social and other back-up services, financial support, and
technical assistance to existing and new land settlements. These programs
should help in spreading the benefits of growth even more effectively among
the poorer segments of the population.
6.        The high level of aggregate demand has affected the relative price
stability that long characterized the economy. The rapid increase in the money
supply generated by the large capital inflows associated with construction of
the Itaipu dam and the buoyant domestic demand had resulted in the average
inflation rate increasing moderately from 5% in 1976 to 10.6% in 1978. In
1979, however, inflation accelerated to 28.2%. Contributing to this result
were the increases in oil prices, delayed readjustments in some prices such as
urban transport tariffs, unfavorable weather that affected food crops, increases
in beef prices (which weigh heavily in the price index) and the inflationary
situation in neighboring Brazil and Argentina. The acceleration of inflation
has occurred in spite of contractionary fiscal policies, whose impact was
limited by the relatively small role of the Government in the economy. In
view of these developments, in late 1979 and early 1980, the authorities
adopted several measures to strengthen and improve the functioning of the



- 3 -
financial system. Interest rate ceilings on both loans and deposits were
raised, reserve requirements for non-banking financial intermediaries were
established, minimum capital requirements for banks and other financial inter-
mediaries were raised, and other measures to restrict credit expansion were
imposed. Inflationary pressures receded considerably in 1980 when the
average rate was 22.4% (the CPI index measured from December to December went
from 35.7% in 1979 to 8.9% in 1980). Main contributing factors to this
slowdown appear to bave been the cautious monetary policy, stabilization of
food prices related to favorable climatic conditions, reduced beef exports and
a reduced sale of construction services, and lower prices on goods imported
from neighboring countries.
7.        Fiscal policy has been characterized by a strict control of expendi-
tures and revenue increases in line with GDP growth through 1979, resulting
in an improvement of the savings position of the Central Government (the
current account surplus increased from 2.8% of GDP in 1977 to 3.4% in 1979).
Capital expenditures, which in 1977-79 averaged only about 2.7% of GDP
reflecting the limited execution capacity of the agencies that have been
unable to fully utilize budgetary appropriations, have permitted the Central
Government to maintain an overall surplus, which increased from 0.2% of GDP
in 1977 to 0.6% in 1979. However, growing demand for services stemming from
increases in current and capital expenditures, coupled with revenues which
have not grown in real terms, has reversed this trend resulting in a deficit
equivalent to 0.9% of GDP in 1980.
8.        High rates of economic growth in Paraguay resulted in registered
imports in current prices increasing at an average annual rate of 33% between
1976 and 1979. Thus, despite exports growing at an average annual rate of
18.8% during 1976-79, the current account deficit has tended to widen.
Although trading partner data suggest that these registered figures may be
underestimated on the average by as much as 50%, increased public and private
capital inflows, mainly associated with the construction of the hydroelectric
projects, have more than offset the current account deficit. Foreign exchange
reserves thus increased from US$160 million at the end of 1976 to USS773
million by December 1980.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
Program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization
schemes and the establishment of additional ones. Through foreign private



- 4 -
investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage the concurrent
development of industries, Darticularly those with high value-added based on
domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the continued expansion of priv-te
investment and high rates of GDP growth will call for greater public investment
in supporting infrastructure as well as increased expenditures for education,
health, rural development and other development-related services. The needed
acceleration of public capital formation may require new tax measures, pending
substantial transfers to the Central Government from compensation payments
from the hydroelectric projects to ensure the generation of the necessary
additional internal resources.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects. Although
improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent years, there
is a need for further expanding and upgrading the Government's capacity for
project identification and preparation, and for improving the administrative
capacity of public sector institutions. A broader investment effort will
require streamlining and decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover,
salaries of scarce professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete
effectively with the increased demands of the private sector and the binational
power companies for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and
the urgent need for greater public investment to support higher levels of
private economic activity, substantial external technical assistance will be
needed to bolster the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 9% during 1981-85. This projected rate is lower
than the average 10% of 1977-80 as a consequence of the expected decline of
construction activity on Itaipu after 1981, restrictive policies to avoid both
the acceleration of inflation and a deterioration in the trade balance. Because
of agricultural growth and favorable international prospects for cotton and
soybeans, real exports are projected to grow at about 13% a year during this
period. Imports are projected to grow at a slower rate than in the past. The
strong export performance is thus expected to reduce the resource gap from about
12% of GDP in 1979 to 5% in 1985. The current account deficit is expected to
remain in the range of US$450-550 million until the late 1980's, when compensa-
tion payments for electricity will begin to accrue. Gross capital requirements
to finance the current account deficit as well as to maintain an appropriate
level of reserves are projected to total about USS3 billion during the period
1981-85. About US$1.2 billion of this is expected to consist of Itaipu and
Yacyreta financing. Another US$1 billion may be expected in the form of
private sector borrowing. Thus, only about USS0.9 billion may be needed on
the public account of which IJS$384 million for amortization. Given the
proj^cted export performance, Paraguay is expected to maintain its current
low debt service ratio and its creditworthiness for the amounts of external
capital required to achieve the projected output growth rates.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$279.1 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$229.3 million has been in
the form of 18 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As of
December 31, 1980, the Bank and IDA held US$266.6 million, including US$142.3
million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of December 31,
1979, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of
about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD; this share is not expected to increase. The
service on this debt amounted to 12.6% of total debt service in 1978 or about
1.2% of exports of goods and non-factor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank
and IDA assistance to Paraguay has been 38% for transportation, 34% for
agriculture, 8% for education, 15% for industry, 2% for water supply, and
3% for preinvestment studies in various sectors. Execution of these projects
has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had two operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a wood
processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with FINAP,
S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of US$1.0 mil-
lion, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of US$0.4 million.
The project has experienced critical financial and managerial problems, and
efforts to restructure it have not succeeded. IFC is in the process of divest-
ing itself from FINAP. Legal proceedings have been initiated against FINAP by
the National Development Bank. In 1980, IFC financed a US$1.2 million hotel
operation in the city of Encarnacion. Annex II contains a summary of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as of December 31, 1980, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY80 consisted of the US$5.0 mil-
lion loan for a Second Preinvestment Studies Project and the US$31.0 million
loan for an Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project. Preparation
work is underway on projects in: ports and inland waterways, rural develop-
ment, area development (including watershed protection and rural development),
and highways. A livestock development project and a rural water supply
project are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors shortly.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector to increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.
18.       Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural
water supply is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve
the living standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale.



Similarly, Bank Group lending for industry, agricultural development and
livestock is aimed at increasing value added and exports of agricultural
products, and at expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers.
Lastly, loans in the transport sector are designed to help improve institu-
tional structures and policies of the sector, which play a vital role in
supporting the production activities of the agricultural and industrial
sectors.
19.       As agriculture constitutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy,
these operations are designed to support either directly or indirectly the
development of that sector, by underpinning in particular the Government's
efforts aimed at extending social and other backup services, financial support
and technical assistance to existing and new agricultural settlements.
Furthermore, in view of the increasing development potential of the eastern
region (as a result of the expanding agricultural frontier and the impact of
the construction of the large hydroelectric projects)--and the need to assure
maximum possible results, the Bank lending program for Paraguay is to place
increased emphasis on projects in that region. Preinvestment projects are
aimed at supporting programs that help overcome institutional constraints,
in particular in planning, economic management, and project preparation and
execution. The proposed project will help reduce the imbalance between rural
and urban educational opportunities and increase the productivity of the rural
population, by supporting educational investments in rural development areas.
PART III - THE PRIMARY EDUCATION SYSTEM
Educational Implications of the Country's Development Strategy
20.       Paraguay is predominantly a rural society with 60% of its close to
3 million population living in rural areas. This distribution of the popula-
tion together with the expansion of the agricultural frontier and production
referred to above puts a heavy burden on the education system in rural areas
to keep pace with the demand for agricultural workers. The number of primary
school graduates entering the agricultural sector will have to increase from
about 15% to 40% per year. The rural education system is presently not in a
position to satisfy such requirements. The majority of the rural schools
(about 60%) offer fewer than six grades of primary education, and only 21% of
the children enrolled in first grade complete primary education, as compared
with more than 45% in urban areas.
21.       Although there is a relatively large number of rural schools
(about 2,700), few provide adequate opportunities for a complete education.
The lack of textbooks and teaching materials, and the fact that curricula
are often irrelevant, contribute to this situation, resulting in high dropout
and repetition rates. The development of the country's vast hydroelectric
resources in cooperation with the neighboring countries of Argentina and
Brazil and the construction of new roads such as those from Coronel Oviedo to
San Estanislao and completing the connection from Presidente Stroessner to
Encarnacion are beginning to affect the migration patterns in Paraguay with
increased concentration of population in those provinces where development
projects are underway. This places a heavy burden on the Government to



- 7 -
develop the educational resources in those areas. The Government recognizes
this situation and has given high priority to the strengthening of rural
education. Its programs in this field aim at, first, equalizing educational
opportunities between cities and rural areas; and second, at orienting the
education system more directly towards the objective of more efficient agricul-
tural production methods.
Overview of Primary Education System
22.       Primary education in Paraguay is of six grades (with entry at age
7), free and compulsory by law for children 7-14. About 500,000 students are
enrolled making for a gross enrollment ratio of 89%. About 60% of total
enrollments are in rural areas, and 15% in private schools, almost all of the
latter in urban areas.
23.       Total enrollments in the past decade increased less rapidly than the
related 7-14 population group, probably as the result of rapid colonization of
rural areas where no schools exist yet; these areas have the lowest proportion
of enrolled students. (Asuncion also has a low rate but for a different
reason: due to more timely entry and higher retention rates the system
operates more efficiently there and does not inflate student numbers with
over-age students.)
24.       About 12,000 teachers fill about 18,000 primary teaching positions,
with about half of them working two shifts. The average teacher/student
ratio (1:28) conceals both oversized classes in the bigger cities and teacher
underutilization in small rural communities. Pre-service teacher training
is provided in 15 post-secondary schools (2-year courses). However, many
teachers are still unqualified, especially in rural areas. In-service
training is occasionally offered in the teacher training schools, during
summer periods. About 3,300 school buildings house approximately 4,500
administratively distinct primary schools. About 2,700 buildings are located
in rural areas, with multigrade teaching programs offered in about 2,200 of
them.
25.       A new curriculum, emphasizing practical orientation and adaptation
to local cultural and economic conditions, has been introduced experimentally
in about 10% of primary schools since 1973. Following possible modifications,
this curriculum will be introduced to all schools in Paraguay. Spanish and
Guarani are both national languages in Paraguay. While Spanish is the official
language, about 90% of the population speak Guarani, and for half of this
group it is their sole language. About 74% of the population in rural areas
speak only Guarani. Rural teachers use Guarani to facilitate the learning of
Spanish as a second language.
26.       Textbooks are produced and distributed by the Ministry of Education's
Department of Textbooks, a well-staffed unit. Still, a large number of students,
especially in rural areas, lack textbooks, the overall shortfall being esti-
mated at about two thirds of the total required number of copies. Probable
causes for this are that textbooks are not free of charge (they are priced at
cost), that the distribution system is deficient, and that funds for printing
and reprinting are not provided at adequate levels.



- 8 -
27.       The literacy rate is estimated at 84%, up from 80% in 1970.
Literacy in urban areas is estimated at 93% and in rural areas at 78%. The
improvement in the literacy rate is principally attributed to the literacy
courses offered by both civilian and military authorities. About 16,000
persons attended these courses in 1979 and 800 teachers taught classes.
These teachers are not specialists in adult literacy courses although about
85% of them have had some training in this field.
28.       Administration of primary education is on the basis of four
hierarchical levels: The Office of the Minister, the Department of Primary
Education (located in Asuncion), Supervisory Offices (located in each
geographical department), and Educational Nuclei (limited to rural areas).
Most decision making and much of execution are centralized in Asuncion, but
efforts are underway to give the two lower levels more authority over local
problems as well as the corresponding necessary resources. Educational
nuclei have been established in 6 of the country's departments, and each
nucleus comprises an average of 10-15 schools. The principal objectives of
the nuclearization system (which, according to current plans, will eventually
cover all rural areas) are to provide facilities for common use in central
and sub-central schools, and to improve teacher supervision, provision of
necessary investments and materials, and school-community relations by
assigning these functions to the nucleus director on a full-time basis.
29.       Primary teacher salaries are low (US$80-120 per month, based on one
shift) and expenditures for materials, maintenance and other operating costs
are minimal. The Government is progressively applying the new salary scale
which provides for additional payments for experience, attendance at training
courses, work in rural areas, work with multigrade classes, and extra teaching
hours.
Issues in Primary Education
30.       Access and Efficiency.  Although Paraguay has achieved a relatively
high gross enrollment ratio of 89%, important regional disparities persist,
with rural areas of recent colonization that receive large inflows of
immigrants offering the least opportunities of access to primary education.
In addition, enrollments are concentrated in the early years of primary
education. For each 100 places in rural schools, 31 are occupied by
first-graders and only 6 by sixth-graders. Of the 85,000 students enrolled
in the first grade in 1973, the corresponding figure for the sixth grade in
1978 was 17,500, or only 21%. High dropout and failure rates, which account
for these figures, are caused by parents' use of their children's time at
home and at the work place, difficulties of Guarani-speaking children in
classes taught in Spanish, long distances between school and home, unavail-
ability of schools, dissatisfaction with the irrelevance of traditional
curricula, poor condition of school buildings and lack of instructional
materials. As a result, two thirds of rural children do not finish primary
school, with serious consequences for future economic and social advancement,
as well as for their productivity as farmers and/or their adaptability as
members of the increasing non-agricultural labor force.



31.       Quality.  About one third of rural teachers have received no pedago-
gical training as compared with 5% for their urban counterparts, the curriculum
taught in about 90% of the schools is the traditional one that places low
emphasis on practical courses and responsiveness to local cultural and economic
conditions, instructional materials are in great shortage, and printed curri-
cula and syllabi are lacking. The consequences of low achievement in rural
primary schools are limited chances for upward social and economic mobility.
32.       Administration.  The highly centralized fashion in which primary
education is administered constitutes a problem exacerbated by ill trained
personnel at headquarters, low salaries that force public servants to become
part-time employees, inadequate physical facilities and office equipment,
and organizational structures unresponsive to the need for coordination
among departments. As a result of this complex problem, quality control
of teachers is lacking, particularly in rural areas, processing of statistical
material is slow, important decisions are made without the guide of reliable
information, part-time personnel cannot produce high-quality work, and lack
of coordinated action hampers productivity. Because of its complexity, the
problem may be best faced by an approach where the most critical deficiencies
are met first.
33.       Education Development Plan and Strategy.  In order to overcome
the constraints mentioned in the preceding paragraphs and to guide the devel-
opment of education, the authorities have formulated the 1969-80 Education
Development Plan and the 1977-81 National Economic and Social Development
Plan. During 1969-75 emphasis was placed on secondary education in order
to prepare persons for middle-level positions and post-secondary studies.
Since 1975 the Plans have called for more attention to the poorer segments
of the population and have thus emphasized formal and non-formal primary
education. The objectives are to improve access, efficiency and quality of
primary education. Special attention is beng given to rural and frontier
zones, where access and efficiency are lowest. The quality objective is to
be achieved by completing the evaluation of the new curriculum and applying
it gradually to all schools; achieving community, teacher and student partici-
pation in the education process; expanding the area of coverage of the nucleari-
zation system; establishing a permanent in-service teacher training program;
providing textbooks; and expanding and reinforcing instruction of health and
nutrition subjects.
The Bank's Role in Education
34.       The basic  objective of Bank Group lending to the education sector
in Paraguay has been to increase the supply of trained manpower required by
the economy, to expand the availability of general education in underserved
areas and to improve the quality of education. The first Bank Group
education project (Credit 347-PA, US$5.1 million, signed in December 1972)
supported the establishment of the first diversified secondary schools in
the country as well as the improvement of technical education. The project
was completed by the original closing date. The Borrower and the Bank
completion mission ranked the project as highly successful both in achieving



- 10 -
project objectives and in implementation. 1/ Since the project has only been
completed recently, an OED report is not yet available. The second Bank
project (Loan 1252-T-PA, US$4.0 million, signed in May 1976) has supported
the expansion and improvement of the vocational training capabilities of the
National Vocational Training Service in order to respond to the urgent needs
of the economy for skilled and managerial workers. It has been implemented
satisfactorily and completed at the end of 1980, as originally scheduled.
A third Bank Group education project (Loan 1346/Credit 667-PA, US$12.0 million,
signed in December 1976) is assisting the Ministry of Education in expanding
and improving educational opportunities for children and adults in rural areas.
It includes construction of rural primary schools, and diversified secondary
schools, textbooks, teacher training, and technical assistance for the improve-
ment of administration. The implementation of this project is also on schedule
and the project is expected to be completed by the original closing date of
June 30, 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.        A report entitled "Paraguay - Staff Appraisal Report on a Rural
Primary Education Project" (No. 3302b-PA, dated April 20, 1981) is being
distributed separately. The project was prepared in 1980 with assistance
from the Bank's Cooperative Program with UNESCO, and was appraised in
September 1980. A post-appraisal mission visited Paraguay in February 1981.
Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and
a description of the special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations
for the proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C., April 13 and 14, 1981.
The Paraguayan delegation was led by Dr. Raul Pena, Minister of Education.
Objectives and Description
36.        The proposed Rural Primary Education Project would assist the
government in serving the education and training needs of the poorer segments
of the population, especially in rural areas, by focusing on the primary
education level. In particular, it would support the Government's efforts
to improve and extend educational opportunities in rural areas thereby comple-
menting its investment efforts in the countryside, especially for rural devel-
opment. It would also help the Government to obtain the necessary technical
inputs to develop and carry out teacher training programs, curricula improve-
ment, textbook production and distribution, development of new design standards
and improvements in central education administration.
1/   Experience  gained from the completed project indicates that:  (a) train-
ing and upgrading of teachers and administrators contributed to successful
implementation of the education reform; (b) contracting technical assis-
tance specialists within the region was more cost-effective than recruit-
ing experts from outside; (c) the stability of project unit staff and
delegation of authority by management to the project director contributed
to successful project implementation; and (d) continuity of Bank staff in
project supervision contributes to satisfactory project implementation.



- 11 -
37.       Nuclearization and Construction of Rural Schools.  This component
would assist the Government in creating 43 rural primary education nuclei.
Nuclei were selected on the basis of equity and the educational requirements
of regions where rural development projects are being or will be carried out.
Departments with the greatest need for school facilities would benefit the
most. The project would provide construction, equipment and furniture for
about 500 classrooms, as well as teaching equipment for an additional 675
classrooms. Additional facilities in central schools would include an open
multi-purpose area, a multi-purpose workshop and an office/library/storage
room. All project central schools would be especially equipped for proper
implementation of health and nutrition programs. In addition, in order to
attract teachers to rural areas, economical teacher housing would be provided
in about 110 smaller communities where accommodations for teachers are either
unsatisfactory or nonexistent. New school buildings would have a standard two
classroom and a small office/storage space. Existing schools in very poor
condition have been selected for replacement. Project schools would offer
the full six grades of primary education, or only the first four grades when
another school in the vicinity offers grades five and six. Directors of
nuclei would be provided with government-owned and maintained motorcycles
to enable them to undertake their responsibilities as technical and admin-
istrative supervisors of the 10-15 schools in each nucleus. The project would
provide basic equipment and, for the first two years of the school's operation,
disposable teaching materials for practical experience on a small farm or in a
workshop, laboratory or school library. The project schools would be built
according to designs prepared from a study conducted by the Project Implementa-
tion Staff of Loan 1346-PA/Credit 667-PA in cooperation with a consulting
firm. The design features a simplified traditional method of construction
making maximum use of local building materials and the employment of non/or/
semi-skilled labor from the local community. In an effort to survey the
prospects of extending the coverage of future investments in rural schools
at minimum costs, at the start of project implementation, the Project Imple-
mentation Unit would contract six man/months of services of a specialist on
low cost construction techniques for the development of an alternative design
to the standards described above, investigating the use of non-traditional
construction methods and materials suitable to local conditions, conforming to
Ministry of Education requirements, and feasible for nationwide adaptation in
construction of schools or other rural facilities. The study would be carried
out under conditions and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(e)
of draft Loan Agreement).
38.       Non-formal Education and Training Programs.  About 15 central
schools would provide literacy courses for adults in specially built and
equipped classrooms. The project would also finance further training of
about 40 teachers in adult education techniques. This program would include
non-formal training courses which would be designed to improve workers'
skills and agricultural productivity. Instructors for these non-formal
courses would be volunteers selected from the most capable local workers,
specially trained teachers and agricultural extension agents. Under an
agreement already reached between the Ministries of Education and Labor,
the National Vocational Training Service would use project school facilities
while providing mobile workshops and instructors for training in several
rural-oriented specialties. The Ministry of Health and Nutrition would use
school facilities as a base for carrying out its rural service programs.



- 12 -
39.       Teacher Training.  The project would finance (a) the establishment
and operation of a new in-service teacher training unit and (b) the execu-
tion of an in-service teacher training program. The in-service training
program for certification as qualified teachers of "bachilleres" who are
at present teaching in rural schools would last two years (about 1,400 hours).
study in their own localities during the school year, using printed materials
prepared by the training unit staff and li-tening to lectures broadcast by
public and private radio stations. Nuclei central schools would be used for
seminars, discussions and evaluation of trainees. Nuclei directors, together
with teacher training coordinators and central unit staff, would supervise
practice teaching and assist trainees in the field. The program would be
administered by a unit to be established under the Department of Teacher
Training.
40.       The upgrading of about 400 in-service teachers would consist in
two summer courses of eight weeks each. Trainees would be teachers, nuclei
directors and supervisors assigned to project schools, who would study
organization and administration of rural nuclei, multigrade teaching
techniques, health, nutrition and population education, use of textbooks,
and rural community development. This sub-component would also include the
construction and equipment of facilities for a regional school supervision
office and workshop for training teachers in the development of simple
teaching materials for rural primary education. These facilities would be
located at Pilar to serve the southern departments.
41.       Furthermore, the teacher training school at San Pedro with a
capacity for 200 students would be replaced and equipment would be provided
for three more existing teacher training schools. The facilities at San
Pedro would include classrooms, a science laboratory, a workshop for prepara-
tion of teaching materials for primary schools, a library and administrative
offices, and would give a two-year post-secondary course. The curriculum is
being revised to include teaching techniques; health, nutrition and population
education; and community development in order to make training relevant to the
rural environment in which the majority of the graduates would teach. The
annual output of the project teacher training school, in full operation, would
be about 100 qualified teachers. In summer, school facilities would also be
used for carrying out in-service teacher training courses. Assurances have
been received that: (a) the revision of the teacher training curriculum would
be completed by December 31, 1981, and put into effect no later than March 1,
1993 (Section 3.03 of draft Loan Agreement). Of the eight teacher training
schools under the direct administration and supervision of the Department of
Teacher Training, three lack basic training equipment, including professional
reference books. The project would finance equipment for these three teacher
training schools (Cordillera, Misiones and Paraguari), in order to raise the
standard of teacher training.
42.       Curriculum Development.   The project would finance the completion
of the evaluation and revision of the 1973 "Educational Innovation" curricula
and syllabi for grades 4-6 and 7-9. Revision of curricula for grades 1-3 is
being financed under Loan 1346/Credit/667-PA. The basic technical and
administrative structure for curriculum evaluation has already been established,
with the assistance of USAID specialists. In addition, UNICEF and UNFPA are



- 13 -
assisting the Government in updating health, nutrition and population programs
included in the primary education curricula. The Curriculum Department of the
Ministry of Education would be responsible for implementing this project item.
The cost of this component includes contracts for additional technical staff,
field trips, office equipment and materials, computerization of data and
printing of reports. Assurances have been obtained that the Government will
carry out the revised "Educational Innovation" curriculum in all project
schools (section 3.04 of draft Loan Agreement).
43.       Textbooks and Teaching Materials.  This component would provide
to the Department of Textbook Production of the Ministry of Education the
materials for printing about: (a) 230,000 textbooks for grades 1-4 of rural
primary schools; (b) 10,000 teachers' guides; (c) 57,000 copies of the
revised primary ectcavion curricula, including syllabi, by grade and pedagogically
developed lessons; and (d) 16,500 copies of lower secondary education curricula
and syllabi by subject matter. In addition, the project would cover the cost
of preparing manuscripts for lower secondary education textbooks. The Depart-
ment, which is well staffed to carry out this component, would revise the
content of the books to ensure that it conforms to the new curriculum. The
project would finance the reprinting of readers for grades 1-4 and mathematics
texts for grade 1, because their stock is almost exhausted and their use is
mandatory in primary schools. Distribution would be in the proportion of one
book to two rural students.
44.       Present Government policy is to sell textbooks to rural students at
10% below printing cost, and to provide each school library with five to ten
sets free. However, a large number of primary school students are currently
without basic textbooks. A study would be undertaken which would include an
evaluation of the distribution system, and the possible impact of pricing
policies on this problem. In addition, such a study would include an evalua-
tion of current proposals to expand the revolving fund (established by the
Ministry of Education to finance textbook production) with the proceeds of
new textbook sales, with the expectation that in the future textbook production
could become a self-financing venture. Assurances have been provided that the
Government would undertake and complete by June 30, 1982, a comprehensive
study of textbook production processes, pricing and distribution systems with
recommendations for adopting measures that would improve availability of
textbooks to students, especially in rural areas, and thereafter discuss its
findings with the Bank (Section 3.05 of draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Education Finance, Evaluation Statistics and Tracer System.  Under
the project, the Planning Department of the Ministry of Education would
receive technical assistance in preparing annual and long term educational
development plans, and establish criteria supporting its proposals for resource
allocations among educational levels and services. Also, the Ministry needs
technical assistance to improve the statistical information system and for the
establishment and initial operation of a tracer system mainly for students
leaving technical and teacher training schools. Assurances have been provided
that the Government would use the results of the evaluation system study to
prepare a plan to improve student achievement tests at the primary level
(Section 3.01 (b) of draft Loan Agreement).



- 14-
46.        The project would cover the cost of five terminals to link up with
the existing computer in the Ministry of Education in order to modernize
personnel administration and analysis of educational statistics. This would
permit the implementation of recommendations given by the specialist in
personnel administration financed under Loan 1346/Credit 667-PA, and the
proper use of the already trained staff in carrying out a study of the compen-
sation required to attract qualified teachers to rural schools. This study
would be completed under conditions and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.01(e) of draft Loan Agreement).
47.        Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 72 man-months
of fellowships and 60 man-months of specialist services. The fellowships
program would give 20 nuclei directors the opportunity to observe other
Latin American countries' nuclearization systems. The specialists would
support the following project components: nuclearization and multigrade
teaching, in-service teacher training, evaluation and tracer systems,
education financing and physical planning. Assurances have been received
that the Government would contract specialists and select fellowship
candidates on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and that it would
provide suitable counterpart staff for the specialists and make appropriate
arrangements for the placement of fellowship recipients (Section 3.01(d) and
3.02 of draft Loan Agreement). Costs are estimated at an average of about
US$2,000 per man/month for fellowships and US$5,000 per man/month for
specialist services.
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
48.        The total project cost is estimated at about US$28.4 million, net
of taxes, including physical contingencies of about US$1.9 million and price
contingencies of US$8.8 million. Fellowships are estimated at US$2,000 per
man-month and specialist services at US$5,000 per man-month. The proposed
Bank loan of US$17.0 million, equivalent to 60% of total project costs, net of
taxes, would meet 100% of foreign exchange costs and about 42% of local costs.
The balance of project costs would be borne by the Government. In earlier
education projects, the Bank Group has financed 70% of the total cost and
about half of the local cost. Since in projects such as the present which
help improve directly the welfare of the poor, there is a large use of local
materials and labor, the foreign exchange component is normally low (in
the present case it is 28%). A significant level of Bank financing, includ-
ing a portion of local cost is justified because of the major institutional
and policy changes underway. However, the level of Bank financing has been
reduced to 60% of total cost (about the level of average foreign exchange cost
of the public investment program), thereby helping mobilize additional re-
sources from the Government for the rural education sector.
49.        The proposed project would cause an estimated US$1.4 million in
additional recurrent costs per year (at December 1980 prices). These costs
would amount to about 3% of the Ministry of Education allocations for total
current expenditures in 1980, and would not create any substantial burden
on Government finances.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
50.       The Project Implementation Unit which has been responsible for
Credit 347-PA and Loan 1346/Credit 667-PA would be responsible for this
project. The Unit would retain its present administrative structure composed
of a project director, architect, engineer, educator, procurement officer,
accountant and a bilingual secretary. Additional support staff would be
recruited for efficient supervision of the project items which are widely
dispersed. In carrying out its functions, the Unit would be assisted by the
related Departments under the Ministry of Education, particularly the
Departments of Education Planning, Primary Education, Teacher Training and
Textbook Production.
51.       The project is expected to be completed within four years.  A
detailed implementation schedule was discussed with Ministry of Education
officials during appraisal, and will be used as a project implementation and
monitoring tool.
52.       The professional (design/engineering) services required for school
construction comprise only technical services in connection with site surveys,
design of site and building utilities and full-time construction supervision.
The Ministry would assume legal responsibility for faults in construction
attributable to deficiencies in the building designs (as in the case of school
building projects designed and executed by the Department of Construction of
the Ministry).
53.       The following activities have been completed by the Project
Implementation Unit: (a) site acquisition of about 50 project school sites
(the remainder would be acquired at the start of each succeeding construction
phase); (b) final architectural designs for the San Pedro Teacher Training
School and the regional supervision office at Pilar; (c) detailed furniture/
equipment specifications and tender documents; (d) terms of reference of
consultants and contractual personnel; and (e) terms of reference for the four
studies to be carried out under the project. Training programs are under
preparation and the first batch of trainees would be identified and undergo
training by the end of 1981.
Procurement
54.       Construction.  School construction contracts would be grouped
into economical packages to facilitate bidding and supervision. Since the
dispersed location and the small sizes of the schools envisioned under this
project, the bid packages are not expected to attract foreign firms. Small
local contracting firms would be encouraged, to the maximum extent possible,
to participate in tendering. Construction contracts up to the equivalent of
US$1.0 million would be awarded using local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Bid and contract documents used in Loan
1346/Credit 667-PA would be adapted for this project. Civil works contractors
would be prequalified and interested foreign bidders would not be precluded
from participation in the bids.
55.       Furniture and Equipment.   Contracts for furniture and equipment
would be awarded on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped in packages of at least
US$100,000 would be procured using local competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable to the Bank. In the case of ICB, domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a preferential margin in bid evaluation equal to the prevailing
tariff, or 15% of the CIF cost of imported goods, whichever is lower. Items



- 16 -
not exceeding US$10,000 per contract, unsuitable for procurement through
competitive bidding would be procured through local shopping up to an aggregate
total of US$500,000.
56.       Textbooks.  Paper for textbooks would be procured through ICB.
Printing contracts would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
among local prequalified printers.
Disbursements
57.       Disbursements would be made against withdrawal applications prepared
by the Project Implementation Unit accompanied by standard documentation
covering procurement of civil works under contract, equipment, furniture,
textbooks, major study contracts, and professional and specialist services.
For furniture, equipment and materials withdrawal applications for payments of
items acquired through local competitive bidding procedure and off-the-shelf
purchase in amounts not exceeding US$10,000 would be supported by purchase
orders which would not need prior Bank approval.
Audit, Monitoring and Evaluation
58.       Yearly educational and physical auditing would be made by the Ministry
of Education technical departments involved in project implementation.
Financial auditing of the Project Implementation Unit's accounts and the
management of the loan account would be made by the Ministry of Finance. The
yearly audit reports by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance
would be sent to the Bank for information.
59.       The Project Implementation Unit  would be responsible for preparing
periodic progress reports, providing information on the quantitative and
qualitative aspects of the project, giving particular attention to: (a)
proper delivery of textbooks/teaching guides to students/teachers; (b) per-
formance by nuclei directors of their supervisory and coordination responsibil-
ities; (c) proper scheduling of training programs; and (d) placement of
trainees completing these programs. Project evaluation would be made periodi-
cally by the Project Implementation Unit in cooperation with the evaluation
unit within the Ministry of Education (which was strengthened through technical
assistance and training programs financed under Loan 1346/Credit 667-PA) and
the director of Primary Education. The main points to be evaluated would
be: (i) comparability between educational map data and actual field experience
during project implementation; (ii) effectiveness of the textbook distribution
system; (iii) supervisory coverage and effectiveness in assisting teachers in
the classrooms; (iv) changes in progression, repeater, dropout and completion
rates; (v) student achievement in project schools; and (vi) participation
rate of adults/youth in nonformal training courses offered in project schools
and achievements in literacy programs/courses.
Benefits and Risks
60.       The project is expected to make a significant contribution to the
proper development of primary education in selected rural areas of nine
departments in Paraguay. The 43 project educational nuclei, comprising about
500 schools, would serve some 80,000 regular students by 1985 (about 25% of



- 17 -
total enrollments in rural areas). Within this broad context, the beneficia-
ries would be (a) 35,000 children in communities that currently possess no
schools or have substandards schools, and (b) about 45,000 students in schools
which-would receive instructional equipment. Furthermore, some 15,000 adults
and out-of-school youths would be provided with education and training facili-
ties and courses adapted to the productive needs of the local communities
(agricultural practices, home economics, carpentry, masonry, etc.). Access to
both regular primary schools and nonformal education and training programs
would be equal for males and females. In addition to new school buildings and
equipment, it is expected that students in the project area would benefit from
improved teacher quality through the proposed training of 1,800 teachers (many
of whom can be expected to serve in project schools), school directors and
supervisors, and through revision of course curricula and syllabi. The
proposed system of evaluation of student performance is expected to provide
insights regarding the individual and combined impact of the proposed improve-
ments in educational inputs on student achievement.
61.       Identifiable risks are:  (a) the potential underutilization or
shortage of some project facilities if the colonization and rural develop-
ment programs are not executed as currently planned, since information concern-
ing them was used to determine the location and size of project schools. This
risk can be avoided by constant monitoring by the Project Implementation Unit
of developments and adjusting of project school size in accordance with the
most recent data; and (b) the possible overloading of nuclei directors with a
number of community functions, which might reduce their performance regarding
supervision of teachers in the nuclei schools. Close monitoring of the
pressures on, and performance of, nuclei directors should reveal during
project implementation whether any modification of their assigned functions
would be necessary.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRIMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and
the Bank, and the Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are being listed in Section III
of Annex III. There are no special conditions of effectiveness.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.        I recoimnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 20, 1981



- 19 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
PARACUAt - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIEr?
PARACUAT                      trEERRECE (ROurS (WPIalTED AVEXCES
LAND AREA MTh0USAND So. KM.)                                                       - MoST RECENT ESTI?rATE£
TOTAL            406.8
AGRICULTURAL     162.2                                NOST RECENT             MIDDLE IPConE           MIDDLE INConp
1960  jb    1970 t  ESTIMATE       LATIN AMERICA A CARIBBEAN          tRPHE
NP PER CAPItA (US$)                  250.0        390.0    1060.0               1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KIWGAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        87.0       140.0     200.0                1055.9                   1641.4
rOPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLI0SS)      1.8         2.3       2.9
USRAS POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 35. 6       37.1      39.8                  63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPU.ATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       5.0
SUTIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS IEACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER S4. KM.                        4.0         6.0       7.0                  28.1                     77.2
PEt SQ. O4. AClICULTURAL LAND     12.0        15.0      18.0                  8l.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14  ES.                         46.0        46.1      44.7                  41.4 A0.6
15-64 YES.                         51.0        50.7      31.9                  S4.7                     61.1
65 nYs. AND ArOVE                   3.0         3.2       3.4                   3.9                      8 2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCET)
TOTAL                              2. 6Lc      2. 6/c    2.8                   2.7                      1. 6
URJ                                2. 9        3.0       3.5                   4. 1                     3.3
CRUD I 811Th RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0        41.0      39.0                  36.8                     22.8
CRUDI DEATN RATE (PEER DUSAJD)      13.0         9.0        9.0                  8.9                      8.9
CROSS URODUCTION RATE                ..         3.2        2.8                  2.5              .       1.5
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNVAL (TOUSANDS)        ..          ..      26.0
03ERS (PERCENT OF KALRIED WO0Z1)    ..          ..      15.5
FOOD AND NTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
FA CAPITA (1909-71-100)           94.0       103.0    102.0                  106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
RutREiENTs)                    109.0       121.0     122.0                 107.4                    125.3
EOTEDIs (GURMS PER DAY)           71.0        77.0      80.0                  65.6                     91.8
Ol vUICE ANIMAL AD PULSE        40.0 o       2.0      46.0                  33.7                     39.6
CunLD (ACES 1-4) ?MRTALITY RATE     16. 0       1o.0       8.0                   8.4                      6. 3
REAL?!
LIFE EUPECTANCY AT BIRTr (YEARS)    56.0        61.0      63.0                  63.1                     67.8
IrAXT ORTALITY RLATE (PER
TODUSAI.)                                       64.0        ..                  66.5                     55. 
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PECENYT Of
POPUATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0      13.0                  65.9
ORRAN                                         22.0      25.0                  80..
RURAL                               .          5.0       5.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO ErCETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0      10.0                  62.3
viA                                 . .       16.0      28.0                  79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  29.6
POrULATION PR£  PHYSICIAN         2300.0      2340.Od  2156.0                1869.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NLRSINC PERSON         ..      2310.0    2258.0                1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER POSPITAL NED
TOTAL                            430.0       620.0    695.0                  480.3                    2r9.7
URA                                 ..       240.0     282.0
ULAL                                ..      5830.0   6260.0
ADMISSIONS PEg  UOSPITAL  ED          ..          ..        ..                    ..                     17.0
AVERtAE SltZ  Of NOISENOLD
TOTAL                              5. 5/       5.4.       .                     .                        .
CtSAM                              5.3L        S.         ..
RUAL                               5.7?J       5.        ..
AVERAGE 91!AER of PERSONS PER ROO
TOTAL                              2.6k        2.4j       .
VRAIa                              2. 6.j      1.7.L     .
RURAL                               ..         5.1        ...
ACCESS TO ELCTRCITY (PERCERT
or UJILLIJCS)
TOTAL                               So         17.13       ..
UIMIA                             3 3. T2j    41.53 
RURAL                              1. 2-        1. 2.      ..



- 20 -                                                           ANNNEX I
Page 2
PA.RAGCAY - SOC'AL INDICATOPS DATA SHEET
PALA4L'AY                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIHIATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTLMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CAPIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATIOII
ADJUSIED ENROLUMENT RATIOS
PRIIMAY:     TOTAL                 98.0        109.0     102.0                  99.7                     105.9
MALE                 105.0       115.0      106.0                 101.0                    109.3
FEIALE               90.0        104.0       98.0                  99.4                    103.0
SECONIARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         17.0      25.0                  34.4                      64.0
MALE                  11.0        17.0       26.0                  33.5                     71.1
FEIALE                11.0        17.0       25.0                  34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (: OF SECOfDARY)   7.0           6. 0      5.0                   38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRITARY                            28.0         32.0      28.0                  30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                           8.0          9.0      10.0                  14.5                      26.1
ADLLT LITERACY RATE (PERCE.NT)       75.0/o       80.0      81.0                   76.3
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2. 0         7.0       7.0                  43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         82.0         74.0      66.0                 245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUL'ATIO                           ..         15.0      20.0                  84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPLLATION                    ..         44.0      37.0                  63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDASCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..                    ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       577.2        729.1     933.6
FE.ALE (PERCENT)                   21.7        21.4       23.0                  22.2                      30.4
ACRICULTtRE (PERCENT)              56.0         53.0      50.0                  37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         19.0      19.0                  23.5                      29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5         31.7      31.9                   31.5                     40.9
MALE                                 51.7         50.0      49.6                   48.9                     55.9
FIIALE                               13.9         13.5      14.3                  14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.6       1.5                    1. 4                     1. 0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT CF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSE"OLDS      ..           ..        ..
8IGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCEN. OF HOUSENOLDS    ._            ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA                                 ..           ..        .
U'RAL                                ..           ..        ..                 190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     260.0                 474.0
RULAL                                ..           ..     260.0                 332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPDLATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEV_L (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      19.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0
.    ot available
Not applicable.
NOTES
js   The group averages for each indicator are population-wighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on ava±laoility of data and is not uniform.
Unless othervise noted, data fcr 196O refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Xost Recent £st:jte. between 1974 and 1978.
Due to emigration of Paraguv4ans to neighborLng tcountries (Argentina and Brazil). population growth
rate is lover than rate of natural Increase;  /d Coverage unknown;  l  1962;  Lf 1972.
Most recent estinat. of GNP per capita is !or 1979. all other data are as of April. 1980.
October. 1980



~~~~o43 3330149                                                300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.:.-  I3  -334. R1o--.4... q.o. 1...  .   a,p
3343433  300443(34 933 03430, 33 333                                     34*l'044   003*43033033(9333034£1334
033443  *33 0 T*3303 pa I                                                       0  .3a.          33044    .3,.o   434o33o.o.
P    3234   333 ~              9,'I!    30,*)  ;3   334-34
RI33  *0333330z(344               3349  3933T3 . . . . .                                                                                             .ot.  ..3343  ...0.44 3303a004.0 
P*3    34   ;.o6W34'Voo,3'640)10340.3   .~0*0
*0340S    3 70 93348ITT3         3    I3004    -b     .)t(    I349                                        4- 4(T-3 3    '301.1.44*4044.13.13  43*10--.4
43000 4 4i'"         o33103    0   203loSo3A3                       39          3(33(343   3
433934  *3)'40  444 133433433434  3  (330  *003  04"I 0  330000431111.    '334.193'330430  43)3)44    034401
p0333   Si 73333S0  ..-(91  333 .*T od   4ov M3401   34!A333303 3                                                                                           . 31
Oor.44u3£ 3d4~                   339  43  93  334   34333(RI33439) 903490"3334
s..T M.   .4l J-                          -P23.  3144.49   .o  4o31 Ad~    T4.3  )  34   3  333      - 0 R    -4 43a3*
4303 93 34 9   43 )3  ~333334.4  3 3333 . 3331 P 0 016143  '096140    '.3   4133   11-3334'    3                0333333)3  30346    *300343TS
40 14430 P- 01A3433.-0.....3.
332039433341303~fl4               .      4   *1*   43  93 T64*06 a                             3  9           '03  45  3-;44  09134-3.43  04 t3o
'3)3  941933(                      333(  0   01043S4£  34(                 3     330  433 43;  611303303
!:4 :v 03440  3313  3331   3   39343433 3   A3 433 - ))4-4 -3    331   332(93   33  0449   3   4334   9413 39tzd 4(443  10
33343439333  30(0343340 '3133  013443  4341   (33443) 443993  30433  3470403343 03404.433   a3  3333) 33301  70444333443   40
F-0  439336   06   303414  30   3.33433   941                                                                  00  116.  931PA16( '(A106!   4         PT413
p3   0334 W  43394'34333344...'    (0444  39r.)03A                                  333  0  3  43   1  3304.......33047  3)34334p43   3
P30 301 *963 134314.34  33 0   333~~n0~930f   33-dQ     P.. 4          .4333)'o30                R.03   0 ...   I  -3 " *01331 9- 3 P )939P3333
_j.p    ORIWIM  -...A .013  3033                              .043  4.  43303  1  )-3333Pi-( 9  90)  3043  333400P£331
ql    P.."   m l ."  IT6.3 -43309434                                     34143    4  4343)33309  34(043344R0
*34       " 333       P-     9  (6  943--5-   '034'31   - 1304330   30114 43344   3433331
.33 %433314  33  309    (010003  43343  3)  4364033  0334.3                                                                                                     0' 
~         3~1~'39001  343433   3334  33433I43.33.'34 -3. -A                                                                                33 P3330 933413* 43* DD
3310    -IT_44  4.433441 -T(333334 r 433004 _34  34430  4                       33033T3313444d4   1  (03 I-,                      0  03399'434 
.., .-I....       '33( 934374.TM    0P- 41   3400               303   0  33044-(83   343  43. 34444443.'-  3430333 j                    4. 3
303  331  0330.40 34, 23  43 13£3f14t       0  0434 I4,39  34TA  33              04   33337403  333330   30803499  34334430-144
~  39~~ 903313433034 0333       I43 933  3334033  3034323         ..          -43-4333J 4303943 43TT 334 T_        j- (404444)  331    -411430 T-l3440314 
-4439)6339330 11413(344 30  3*3334 43.433443  334333 30  40313341               '441 93 *O13 '--6--A -T3*P--03434 -334403..£43333-30344....
R33   0333333   3 Q 4   37 (01300  9344  40   43340  33A.3   1104.0303.4   33344*-1 3904433303443(3.0   3
34439  243034* 33 434 44033.33 3309339 3040433  33..3   363 00)4394333333A
3 U39316  903 '613 '0964 1-13134340
33 9343413  300900  3003  - 4.334003  933  0- T3 I 034p31 4341"33q- J                          4)01 I323-(43             (400   33-  404. .....3t4(f
-w31III-T 3 4- A43*l4*p - (3471330 3  3P-431 0034443039034343                                                                                      *333
~~~P.T ..... d. Q.1                               *93433                   30   34)43443  33349  13- 3343 -. 3 g) 3              33 I4343   '3 '_    8
33434433330304343334 3333313434031  43 '334343IT 13333  3394444               33 (33*039 I    3 4...33  313303AR  P434   -r- 13474340-TT3-T- 3
41903  "14403   3343 d     333  3433433                                            A-43443 - 434443                     -R 4.1393433  '934401  301  13M 3013
I..3343434(3  1   43340433A3336                     3333               34.-4 4a in   39313434 -9463   3  00400   13003303
0330434004 93 ;3      . £3   43233000   303349  433443  334  334010 '=3
33    033331334   43I03T03333  3   301T                    3  3433                -T" -43.033    13423-3        m 33013  34310  90 t      30   .43'
43'*3 9333 93194434        .. 34303 .1431  13043334.434 T-30443 .4.34         10333   4   03333033'9130434  4334303   333
ARA  33 333333p 13A. 0 I 3A3I   4333      . 9002333 - 33 43 0334433333333.40  43.33334'4333933A3,4.33a
34I3 p,     33  '3330) 33040.T-  II- 331   733 3433d. 4044-  31)33, A. 34           3313340   04   33   31933430030  03343143
3303330*3304  9)3990 3433443  333  42413.  43334(0  34343  3  343    1330 3 040
0 -T-; P- -1- -Tl                            3  330933334134993 333933   44-433  3334441   4
30)   )330   3  11   00444£333333      00393   .3440
'4*34333   031409433433  '343'(10  3                          '.34344413(34          `3     I=4 43343   3
33333343034440  33.430£303004  33  3014334*333343           03343  3  30303T3  3*T.             IT"4 P000  3,16        ..... 33  4)34  43
- 434344 933 13419 '(6340- )333;((339  3 3334133) 44)4140334 4)  33409  '34330433434 3330438 433*3; 303  300 33434 33404P33...4.3103 £2134333
'34134 9314044001        33 1-2 R 3343.0303   44434  3*90 03)3 PdA.433440439- 43  -1-03
"3  33300333 3033334.33 33     :I 33033430.4  '£4343316   '333433                .a434                                   T_. (t3 33(4412£0340 AR1T 335 IT,'-,3£3
3*3333403904340(-          I T3-  '34  443 Il3  .11 zo         9T  4          3341333    4 _400   33  43304444 333
T339  134 p    044  4 '334    33          04   .   33343   33-3344                   393  343404- 3314  33_q- 333433  33034 01404.P101' 133 `4313343   13143
0.*o44o4 40444333333434 933313003 3'40  '30134 £34440133  A44403010  43d4 I- 33 4- 3 -03  £9 044440044  343
33  39333  3  00  43 4  43 4434443934  0  3333  33  441393  033  3 933  03  30443T.4  333 A443  -3433I  (4)44 4334II. 33, 343301l
P" 439 ...    4334   4   43403 334434.433333   90339  9                                -It4)4-)44 3103T44
"401   .3...I334 (93301443333)30310   3  33344                                                                         39  3433'14'03   34100
_T-  3-1 Pld-   T.... F-   IT. ,T  -I                1. .443q           __,9 _94.lI 4333,43,      30239  £03 ..34  01)4 "33   'I-,3333  333433
J-  P..                                                                                T~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.33330   3333  3433   6333-(134  301 31444  333443  3344
'3934 33 4330)3 04) 44 9391439 343434334 1343                                                                    *3333~-M  ;  T"_     -.  .. 3-     -7-. 
'_14339  33410 i   -044  5 4 -)3 PT3343  -43 .   ......23  33)                                                                -V33 03334 933333109313
*  9334  939001303042  33)3.3   333  434  (3)  '91393  33               46  90 444  344  3449  34  33343(  300333.4M,3    (43,1
'333033333 3303903 3 44 304) 134113444 3 £4 93)3303 4(300333.034 140 3433130  -4333 433.3343433"ll 90P   4334.... '.. 4944 333 7-1   4349030I '3933-04134i'.330334"pa
93)33)3     .  P 4433331  T.0"  p3430  3 .. 343434161'43301 3L632444*61'133(4A933'44-
.34933333443  93336434 T.pa  P 3033  -444         pa  T303   034(00              '3443196-43   *3 4   33433I33 034103 391340430 0II    £4 9343403
333404  9043332£3  39004  300(444143433.-)413143                               333*3   04(4443   3064  434904441433 3                      303'84    T103-4440434
'323  400303 1I344343303   3R   9-343033343                                                33)4.933'T30.33  33   0444.4P-4 00393300 L-( I0
33 433433341333341 0.. 393304393433349933 30-v 3323  334430  (..430    330 .34034   40443,-    093403343033.. 03400344193   0   033   3
3339.39 .'94   3303342434310331    33)340333303333433   444331  4334IPA3    )3141343  VJ3310234-0103
133003333333  4334  )   39  3934  3  6349  43404                      4(3904   44   34    4,03   3   *89   343                        443   43040303303
-34   1030033340303333373'300  4334 3004  4T-390                                                   T 4   3   443330)3   300 33330£21'33330()33493301348
'344330400434344494(3T33433               -4)340          AT3 '3940343394  '3033P          43340330393   333'3
-00   33.09T.0; A                    03)(03'  343040838(   433"3400494   3110(0  00432333  33   4   43349(4409   4(313
.   T--I 6   30...4.. 33..0.    0   33  30331'33)8   43  404333 1303  00 9390)"443333  330333 303  3334943623   I3 4390.33 I                              :30343
-"d ftT.1IW.d 1. A---  A. w.1.10440140-  13d44 40  '13130)43
£   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Id~~,    - -7      ..- R
I X3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4)ITI.N.V- R-1-'1RPT  SP



- 22 -
ICOttH(IC IHDtCATO7S                                                                     ANllf  I
Vopiul tiont  2.9 million (1979)                                                                                                                                            Pag 
Cup Per Capita:  E51.060  (1979)
Aeo.at                        Averae Annual Increase (1)                    Share of CDP at Harket Prlc.   )
Indicator                                               (e510n USS curret)                       (at constant 197' prt  .1                           (at clrrent fricp,)
17                            97197905                 ?-O                 19e5       170375               1S
National Accoonts
Cree  omstic prodtct                                         3.415                              4.          6.2        10.4                100.0      100.0    100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                                1.073                              1.6         6.1         7.2                 36.7       32.1      36.9       30.9
lduostry                                                     756                              6.0        6.5         15.3                 18.1       1 .6      19.6       22.7
Services                                                   1,58f                              6.1         6.2        10.6                45.2        48.3      43.5       46.4
Con.ptipon                                                   2.858                              4.1         3.7        tO.2                 86.1       85.7      76.7       78.0
Gross Inv..bent                                                976                              6.0        15.8        20.0                 15.1       14.7      24.1       28.8
fxports of goods and 7NS                                       616                              3.8        12.1        12.2                 16.1       16.0      16.8       21.2
Imports of goods and N75                                     1.035                              3.9         5.8        19.8                 17.2       16.4      17.6       27.9
Gross doetscic savings                                          557                              5.3       25.0        11.4                 13.9       14.3      23.3        22.0
Aomt                          Average Annual Increase (1)                   Composition of Merchandiae Tred  (I)
fulfloa USS current)                  (at onnst,t 1977 Pricts)                            (at cgrrent frtres)
1979                         1965-70   1970-73      1975-80                19'i 1970             975       1980
Merchandise Trade
Mercheodlee exports                                          520                              3.6        16.4         9.6
Merchandise imports                                          t63                              5.3        6.0         19.9               100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0
tood                                                        20                             -1.7      -10.7        19.4                 10.9         8.2       3.3        2.0
Petroleom                                                   s                              11.0        1.9         7.5                  8.5        8.1      14.4        11.8
Kechinery   d equlpent                                     146                             -0.5       14.0        13.8                 26.7       24.2       22.2       16.5
Other                                                      609                              3.0       19.0        20.1                 53.9       59.5      60.1        69.7
1975           1976           1977            1978           1979
Prices and Terns of Trade
GDP deflator  (1977-100)                                                     87.2           91.6          100.0            110.4           133.1
Ecbshnge rate (4/"Us)                                                      126.0           126.0          126.0            126.0          126.0
Export price index                                                           72.3           75.5          100.0             95.4           104.9
Import price index                                                          98.3            92.4          100.0            110.3           130.6
ater  of trade Index                                                         73.6           81.7          100.0             86.5            80.3
As % of GDP
(at current pricas)
Pblic flarce (Central Adinistration)                                1969    1970    1975        1979
turrent revenue                                                   10.4    11.7       9.4      10.1
Current expendlture                                                8.4    10.2       7.6       6.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          1.9      1.5     1.8       3.4
Capital expenditure                                                 1.7     1.9      2.3       2.6
?inaaming (net)                                                   *0.2       0.4      0.5     -0.6
1962-70         1970-75          1975-80         1980-85
Other Indicators
GNP Brovth rate C)                                               4.4              7.0           10.5              9.3
GNY P p   capita growth rate  )                                  1.7              4.1             7.6             6.4
lCd7                                                             2.9              2.4            2.4              3.0
Marginal earinSg rate                                           27.3             53.0           24.5             23.4
Import elasticity                                                1.1              1.0            1.9              0.9
March 31. 1981



- 23 -
BAlANC. OF PAYMEN7S  EXTE9NAL CAPITAL A'1D DFBT                                                  ANPFX I
(sillion  us  at current prices.                                                         Page S
P.platifon: 2.9 sillios (1979)
GNP Per Capital US$1,060 (1979)
Actoi                        Ial                                 Pro ected
1976       1977       1978       1979        19ig                 1981       108?       1983        1984       1985
BAiAICE OF PAYIENTS
g1cc exports of goods and services                             -136.6    -190.8    -343.6    -434.4    -549                      -465       -500        -566       -558       -557
Exports of goods and services                                 273.0      409.2      503.3      661.1       693                1,009      1,237      1.519       1,891      2,320
Iasport of goods and servicee                                409.6       600.0      846.9   1,095.5   1.242                   1,4?4      1,737      2.085      2,449       2,877
get transfers                                                     4.2        1.2         5.8        7.3       11                   16         17          19         21         '3
C.rrent account balance                                        -132.4    -189.6    -337.8    -427.2    -534                     ._40        -483        .547       -537       -534
Direct private i-vsst,sent                                       11.4       17.0       21.9        51.9       57                   63         69          76         84         92
PAL? loans n-t                                                   64.0      121.9       134.9      111.0      242                   54        158         250        366        448
Official                                                       S0.0       47.6       89.6       38.9       115                   44         68          76         75         80
Private                                                        14.0       74.3       45.3       72.1      127                    10         90        173         292        368
Other capital                                                   107.1      159.6      349.7      432.8       403                  371        300         280        148         65
Change in reserves (-   tocer-sel                               -50.1    -108.9    -168.7    -168.5    -167                       -39        -44         -58        -61        -71
Itternational roserves                                          161.5      269.4      438.1      606.6       774                  812        857        915         976      1.047
Lesarven as .  nlthss of isports                                  4.7        5.4        6.2        6.6         7.5                  6.6        6.0         5.3        4.8        4.4
EXTeR.AL CAPITAL A1ND DEBT
Grass disb.rsetents                                              74.0      139.2      147.0      157.2
Concessional lons                                            30.7        26.9       38.3       21.1
DAc                                                         10.4        4.6        28.4        5.8
IDA                                                          2.6         5.2        5.3        3.6
Other                                                       17.7        17.1        4.6       11.7
Non-concessie. al Loans                                       43.3       112.2      108.7      136.1
Official export credits                                      9.5        8.1        10.1       29.2
18RO                                                         4.6        6.9         1.8       16.4
Other n.slrilateral                                           -           -         9.6        4.3
Private                                                     29.2       97.3       81.2        86.2
Ite.-sl Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                               280.6       395.2      520.6      628.7
Official                                                   180.7      219.9       297.4      329.7
Private                                                     99.9      175.3      223.1      299.1
Undisb.r.ed debt                                             228.6       211.3      307.7      3I5.0
Debt servie
Totel service pay.entt                                         31.3      42.6        .9.9       81.5
Interesr                                                     9.6       12.7       18.0        30.0
Paynts as 7. eaporcs                                          11.5       10.4         9.9       12.3
Aierage interest rate on ev Inass (7,,
Official                                                       5.6         6.6        6.6        6.5
Private                                                        8.4        7.3        10.3        8.4
Average natarity of se loans (years)
Official                                                      23.7        20.2       23.3       21.1
Prieate                                                        7.0         7.2        8.4       10.7
As . of Debt 0tsta.ndi.g
at End of Host Re.ent
Year (1979)
Haturity structure of debt out-t-.ding
Hat.rities due vithin 5 years                                                                                  54.6
Olat.rities dae vithin 10 years                                                                               96.1
Interest tructure of debt outstanding
Interest doe sithin first ye r                                                                                 5.1                                               March 31, 1981
La  Estismte.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (December 31, 1980)
-------(US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose                 Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and seven credits fully disbursed                   35.8   45.8 1/
1059           1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                   14.5       -        1.1
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies            -    4.0         2.8
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education                8.0       -       4.2
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II          22.0       -       18.0
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit             10.0       -        2.7
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply             6.0       -        3.6
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                   33.0        -      20.4
1674           1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0       -       14.5
1736           1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                   39.0       -      39.0
1780           1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0       -        5.0
1866 2/        1980    Paraguay   Industrial Credit and
Regional Development   31.0         -       31.0
Total (net of cancellations)                   229.3   49.8       142.3
of which has been repaid                      10.1    1.5
Total now outstanding                          219.2   48.3
Amount sold                         1.3
of which has been repaid          0.4          0.9
Total now held by Bank/IDA                     218.3   48.3
Total undisbursed                                                 142.3
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Not effective



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - December 31, 1980
Type of              (Amount in US$ million)
Year       Obligor                      Business             Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                  Wood Processing          4.4       1.0       5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)                                 0.9       0.3       1.2
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               5.3        1.3      6.6
Total undisbursed                                       -         -        _



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978; the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) was
completed in July 1980. The closing date of June 30, 1980 was extended until
June 30, 1981 to allow for the use of the uncommitted balance of loan funds
(US$1.1 million) for the purchase of spare parts for rehabilitation of mainte-
nance equipment. The consulting firm engaged for assisting in highway mainte-
nance and for preparing a study on maintenance needs has completed its task.
The latter study was the basis for the subsequent highway loan (Fifth Highway
Project - Loan 1529-PA).
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
The entire amount of the credit is now committed. Substantial
progress on the institution building side has been accomplished on the basis
of experience gained under this project, which has led to the preparation of
a second operation, recently approved. The Closing Date was extended from
December 31, 1980 to December 31, 1981 to permit making final payments to
study consultants and finance additional technical assistance requirements.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA  million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised implementation
schedule the project is expected to be completed by the present closing date
of June 30, 1981. About 25 associated rural primary schools, 27 community
learning centers, and 2 secondary schools are completed. Construction of
54 new rural primary schools as well as of five secondary schools are being
completed by December 31, 1980. Satisfactory progress has been made in
contracting technical assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook
production and in-service teacher training programs. Total project cost
is expected to be about 3% lower than originally estimated, due mainly to
reduction of rural school construction specifications.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being takehi to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the unders anding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
In spite of initial delays, this project is now being implemented
satisfactorily. Most contracts for major roads, community centers, health
posts and centers have been awarded; the remaining works should be tendered
for and contracts awarded before June 30, 1981. Completion of land titles,
at 2,777 by December 31, 1980, is about 95% of appraisal estimates. Crop
production in the Project area is impressive, particularly the stands of
soybean and maize. Seasonal loans, however, are down slightly from last year's
level. This is attributed to farmers' experience of relatively unattractive
crop prices last season, to the increase in the effective interest rates from
12 to 18% charged by BNF for seasonal and medium-term loans, and to a shortage
of administrative field staff to process all loan applications in good time.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, for the first time since 1972. This was achieved in
part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a
capital contribution of 0 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan.
BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been sufficiently effective
in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the institutional improve-
ments, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical assistance program has
been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural programming, portfolio
management and electronic data processing systems. Regarding the financing of
industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 46 sub-
projects with small-scale enterprises accounting for most of them. Disburse-
ments, however, were running somewhat behind schedule. Since BNF has already
met the conditions for releasing the pending amounts under the Loan's second
tranche (US$6.0 million), an additional US$4.0 million has been made available
to finance subprojects.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
Project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. A six
month delay which had resulted from a late effectiveness may be reduced.
Up to date 45 projects for the same number of community (91% of total) have
been approved. Forty-four communities have currently signed contract with
SENASA for the implementation of these projects. The second annual purchase
program (1980) has been satisfactory carried out. As of December 31, 1980
loan disbursements amounted to US$2.60 million or 43% of the total loan
amount. A new project has been appraised covering new areas with both water
supply and sanitary facilities; special emphasis is being placed on the south-
eastern part of the country.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route 1 (Paraguari-Encarnacion, 303 km),
on the basis of a revised pavement design, are expected to be completed by
September/October 1981. Construction and supervision contracts for the Coronel
Oviedo-San Estanislao road have been signed and work is well underway.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
There is considerable variation in project implementation among the
various components. As of December 31, 1980, FG had committed about 88% of
the credit funds with highest percentage of disbursements among medium and
small producers. Credit demand remains high and a new project is being
proposed. The rural development component is only beginning. The major
problems are lack of an adequate number of technicians in BNF and SEAG (the
extension agency), failure to initiate the road building component, lack of
vehicles for field technicians and failure of BNF to implement needed admin-
istrative and organizational changes at the branch office level. The whole-
sale market component is progressing well, the long term marketing advisor
is now on the job, bids have been received and contracts awarded for the
construction of the market as well as for supervision of the work. Prepara-
tion for the agricultural census component is being carried out slowly. The
Bank is disbursing for the purchase of 10 vehicles needed to begin field work
for the census.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Government has received proposals from consultants to assist the
establishment of Feeder Roads Unit, but the Bank has not yet received the
recommendations for awarding of the contract. The Government's Feeder Roads
Coordinating Committee has been established by Decree. Procedures for contract-
ing the design of feeder roads are under way. Contracts have been awarded for
the construction of the two sections of Route 6; works are scheduled to start
during the second quarter of 1981.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
The technical assistance component, financed by UNDP with the
Bank as executing agency is progressing well: advisors have been appointed
to the Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Agriculture. The Financial
Programming Division in the Ministry of Finance has initiated its activities
and is actively involved in assessing the public sector's investment and
financing needs for the medium-term. A pipeline of preinvestment studies has
been prepared which is pending review by the National Preinvestment Council;
of these studies, the study on cement prouction, Stage II, has been granted
priority. The National Projects Office has also reviewed some of the financial
issues involved in the granting of subloans by the Preinvestment Fund and made
recommendations to the Central Bank.
Loan 1866-PA   Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, June 26, 1980; (Closing Date: December 31,
1984).
This loan has not become effective yet.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetible of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:   12 months
(b) Preparation by: Government (PIU) Bank/UNESCO assistance
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: January 1980
(d) First Bank Mission: February 1980
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: September 1980
(f) Post Appraisal Mission: February 1981
(g) Negotiations: April 1981
(h) Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
The Borrower would:
(a) carry out a study of low cost school construction techniques
under conditions and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 37);
(b) complete the revision of the teacher training curriculum by
December 31, 1981 (para. 41);
(c) implement the revised curriculum "Educational Innovation" for
primary education in all project schools (para. 42);
(d) complete by June 30, 1982 a comprehensive study of the Government's
textbooks program for discussion with the Bank (para. 44);
(e) prepare a plan by December 31, 1982 for improving student
achievement tests at the primary education level (para. 45);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) carry out a study of employment data and the compensation
requirements to attract qualified teachers to rural areas
(para. 46); and
(g) contract specialists and select fellowship candidates on
terms and conditions that are acceptable to the Bank, provide
suitable counterpart staff for the specialists and make
appropriate arrangements for the placement of fellowship
recipients (para. 47).






I B R-1536
t ___~~~~~~~~~~
____ 1  --  -;w
\  <   z. £ . ql  2   0   0                        u5E §    S 2 2 A         S  S uw¼'X z
:'"BA /   ': Z')VA         au'U:       }     ,wSSg                                  }           ; b
t:;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ,1  y                               o p-/ w      
<k/  -  / E41      a g
| -II                                                      4 o  cl  /t   g   fl LU                        j o  b
I7>' \_ _|.                                         n af                       t                       r
0  0gu: :=1  / ' zt o<  eo l  g<  I



