LOAN NUMBER 1992 PA
Loan Agreement
(Rural Primary Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1992 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               1981, between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (her afterWcalled the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ministry of Education" means Ministerio de Educaci6n
y Culto, the Ministry of Education and Worship of the Borrower;
(b) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement No 667 PA
(Third Education Project) between the Borrower and the Intern-
ational Development Association, dated December 22, 1976;
(c) "In-Service Teacher Training Unit" means the unit to be
established by the Borrower under Part B.1 of the Project; and
(d) "Project Schools" means the primary schools to be
constructed, replaced, improved, equipped, furnished or otherwise
assisted under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-2-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through Ministry of Education, with. due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly


﻿-3-
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) not later than June 30, 1982,
carry out the study included under Part D.1 of the Project; (ii)
based on the recommendations of such study, prepare, not later
than December 31, 1982, a plan for improving student achievement
tests at the primary education level; (iii) afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to comment on such study and plan; and (iv)
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, carry out such
plan according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) Not later than January 31, 1982, the Borrower shall,
under terms satisfactory to the Bank, establish and staff, and
thereafter operate, the In-Service Teacher Training Unit;
(d) The Borrower shall: (i) as part of the execution of the
training and upgrading of teachers included under Part B.2 of the
Project, carry out a fellowship program satisfactory to the Bank,
aimed at providing about 20 selected nuclei directors the oppor-
tunity to observe the School Nuclearization System in other Latin
American countries; (ii) select the beneficiaries of such fellow-
ships on the basis of criteria, and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) make arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank for the placement of such fellowship beneficiaries;
and
(e) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the studies included
under Parts D.2, D.4 and D.5 of the Project under terms of refer-
ence and according to timetables, satisfactory to the Bank; and
(ii) promptly upon their completion, furnish to the Bank, for
comment, copies of the recommendations of such studies.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) employ consultants and
specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and (b)
employ a sufficient number of such qualified counterpart personnel
as, in the opinion of the Bank, shall be necessary to assist such
consultants and specialists in the carrying out of their respec-
tive duties.
Section 3.03. (a) Not later than December 31, 1981, the
Borrower shall, in terms satisfactory to the Bank, complete the
revision of its present primary teacher training curriculum.


﻿-4-
(b) Not later than March 1, 1983, put into effect such
revised teacher training curriculum.
Section 3.04. After the completion of Part B.4 of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall put into effect, in terms satisfactory to
the Bank, the revised curricula and syllabi provided for therein
in all Project Schools.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) Not later than June 30, 1982, carry out, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, the study included under Part
D.3 of the Project; such study to include a comprehensive review
of the current textbook production processes, pricing and finan-
cial policies and distribution systems; and
(b) promptly upon its completion, furnish to the Bank a copy
of such study and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment on the recommendations of such study.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall operate, until the comple-
tion of the Project, the Project Unit with functions and respon-
sibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, all funds, facilities and other resources required for
the efficient operation of such unit.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goodso
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
(b) Upon award by the Borrower of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nation-
ality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in


﻿-6-
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of fcreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) operate the educational
institutions constructed, replaced, improved, equipped, furnished


﻿-7-
or otherwise assisted under the Project in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, technical and educational practices and
with due regard to economy, so as to promote the educational
objectives of the Borrower; (b) cause the buildings, furniture and
equipment of such institutions to be adequately maintained; (c)
cause all necessary renewals and repairs to be made thereto; and
(d) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date            /5       , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Educaci6n y Culto of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Educaci6n y Culto
Chile 849
Asuncion
Paraguay
Cable address:
MINEDUCACION
Asuncion
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By/4
6Authorf ed Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By        6    2   Rei      a
Regional Vice President
Latin merica and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  9,500,000         56%
(2) Furniture, Equipment         2,700,000         100% of for-
and Materials                                 eign expendi-
tures and
85% of local
expenditures
(3) Technical assistance           500,000         100%
and fellowships
(4) Professional                 2,200,000         100%
services and text-
book production
(5) Unallocated                  2,100,000
TOTAL        17,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 10 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Expansion and improvement of primary education for
children and adults in rural areas by means of:
1.   Establishing a school nuclearization system in 43
rural areas in order to improve education admin-
istration and extend the use of multi-grade teaching
techniques, and building, furnishing and equipping
about 200 schools in communities lacking educational
services or with facilities in immediate need of
replacement or expansion and equipping about 300
schools, within such areas;
2.   Establishing non-formal education and training programs
for adults, and providing the corresponding physical
facilities and equipment in 15 of the central schools of
the 43 rural areas included in the Project;
Part B:   Improvement of pedagogical resources at the national
level by means of:
1.   Establishment of a unit in the Ministry of Education in
charge of planning and executing in-service teacher
training programs; and
2.   Training and upgrading about 1,800 currently employed
teachers, and introducing incentives for retaining
competent teachers in rural areas (teacher housing,
supplementary salary-for multigrade teaching, full
compensation for additional teaching time);
3.   Replacing the inadequate facilities of the teacher
training college at San Pedro and reequipping three
additional colleges, and constructing buildings and
providing equipment for teacher training and supervision
at Pilar.
4.   Evaluating, revising, printing and distributing of the
curricula and syllabi for primary education and lower
(bas!c).secondary education and for primary teacher
training;


﻿- 12 -
5.   Printing and distributing about 230,000 textbooks
for grades 1 to 4 of rural primary schools, about
10,000 corresponding teaching guides to primary school
teachers, about 57,000 copies of the revised primary
education curricula and about 16,500 copies of lower
(basic) secondary education curricula and syllabi by
subject matter, and preparing manuscripts for lower
secondary (basic) education textbooks;
Part C:   Improvement of central education administration by means
of:
1.   Acquisition and utilization of five computer terminals
for the Departments of Planning and Personnel of the
Ministry of Education for better processing of personnel
data and statistical information;
2.   Establishing and operating a tracer system for students,
mainly those graduating from teacher training and
technical schools;
3.   Strengthening of the Project Unit.
Part D:   Studies
1.   A study of the national education evaluation system
for primary school students;
2.   A study on the compensation levels and other incentives
required for attracting qualified primary teachers to
rural areas;
3.   A study on the measures required to be adopted in order
to improve the availability of text books for primary
students, especially in the rural areas.
4.   A study on alternative designs and the utilization of
non-traditional construction methods and materials for
primary schools;
5.   A study on current educat'ional needs and future educa-
tion projects to be carried out by the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1985
through   November 1, 1997                  655,000
On May 1, 1998                                   625,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.70%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          3.40%
more than six years
before maturity
6.20%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         8.50%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                                9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Goods shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices. Whenever possible, each bid package for furniture and
equipment shall be for not less than the equivalent of $100,000.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant. to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 16 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Paraguay may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Paraguay if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Paraguay equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 17 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or less, shall be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised and in accordance with local procedures
satisfactory to the Bank; provided, however, that bidders shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for printing estimated to cost less than $100,000
and for goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$10,000 but which cannot be grouped in lots estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $100,000 shall be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding locally advertised and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped in lots
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, may be
procured through regular commercial channels, provided, however,
that the total cost of the items so procured shall not exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of $500,000.
4.   Printing contractors shall be prequalified in accordance with
criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 18 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make 'such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 19 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  11.,    day of4, 198L.
FOR SECRETARY


