r--)L, -;Z (CR
Report No. 1157-TH                                                                 FILE  COP
Appraisal of the                                                                                 COPY
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
August 10, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
Agricultural Credit and DFC Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             -     Bt. 20.0
Baht 1                 US$0.05
Bt. 1 million   -      US$509,00
Bt. 1 billion   -      US$50 million
IFCT's FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AD        -    Administration Department, IFCT
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
BAAC      -    Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Co-operatives
BOI       -    Board of Investments
BOT       -    Bank of Thailand
EXIM      -    Export-Import Bank of Japan
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GSB       -    Government Savings Bank
IFC       -    International Finance Corporation
IFCT      -    Industrial Fiinance Corporation of Thailand
IMF       -    International Monetary Fund
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KTB       -    Krung Thai Bank
NESDB     -    National Economic and Social Development Board
OD        -    Operations Department, IFCT
PD        -    Projects Department, IFCT
RPD       -    Research and Planning Department, IFCT
SET       -    Securities Excihange of Thailand
SIFO      -    Small Industries Finance Office
SMI       -    Small and Medium Industries



FOR OFFICL41 USE ONLY
THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......... ..                ...........    i-v
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...................1.................. 
II.    THE THAI ECONOMY  ...............           ..1................ 
III.    THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS  ....                   .........       2
A.    The  Industrial  Sector  .......................                     2
Economic  Role and Growth  .....              ...............        2
Industrial Employment and Small Industry
Development  ...............................                      3
Industrialization Strategy  .....                .............       3
Industrial  Protection  and Promotion  ....             .....        4
Investment  in Manufacturing  .....               ............       5
B.    The Financial  Sector  ........................                      5
Overview  ........           ............................            5
Financial  Sector Development  .....               ...........       6
Policy Measures  .............................                       6
Interest  Rates  ..............................                      7
IV.    IFCT - INSTITUTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS  ....                  .........       8
Charter  and  Ownership  ......             .................        8
Board  of Directors  ......             ....................         8
Management  .........           .........................            9
Organization  ........            ........................           9
Staffing  ..........          ..........................            10
Advisors  ..........          ..........................            10
Training  and  Staff  Development  .....             .........      11
Branch  Offices  ........            ......................         11
Policies and  Procedures  .....              ................       11
Project  Appraisal  .......             ....................        12
Project  Follow-Up  .......             ....................        13
Project  Screening and Monitoring  ....               ........      13
Procurement  and Disbursement  .....               ...........      13
This report was prepared by Messrs. P.S. Mistry, K. Siraj, A. Soulard and
S. Ogtira following their visit to Thailand in February 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
V.   IFCT - OPERATIONS, FINANCES AND PORTFOLIO QUALITY.               14
Lending Operations ............. .............            14
Equity Investments and Guarantees ...........             15
Financial Position and Performance ..........             15
Foreign Exchange Risk ..     ....................         16
Portfolio Quality ............ ..        .............    17
Audit ........       ...............................      17
VI.    IFCT's DEVELOPMENTAL IMPACT AND ROLE ....          .........    17
Overall Impact ......        ........................     17
Efficiency of Investment ...           .................  18
Resource Allocation .....        ....................     19
Long-Term Resource Mobilization ..........       ...      19
Capital Market Development ...............       ...      20
Promotional Efforts .....        ....................     20
IFCT's Development Strategy ..............       ...      21
VII.    IFCT's RESOURCE POSITION AND PROSPECTS ....          .......    22
Resource Position ............ ..        .............    22
Operational Projections and Prospects .......             23
Financial Projections and Prospects .........             23
VIII.    JUSTIFICATION FOR THE LOAN AND ITS MAIN FEATURES .              24
Justification ......        .........................     24
Rates of Return on Projects Financed ........             25
Main Features of the Loan ................       ...      25
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS ....            ...........   27



-3-
LIST OF ANNEXES AND CHARTS
Annex No.
1    The Economy
2    Industry and Manufacturing in Thailand (with Tables)
3    The Financial Sector
4    List of Shareholders of ICFT as of December 31, 1975
5    IFCT - Board of Directors as of December 31, 1975
6    IFCT - Policy Statement
7    IFCT - Operations  (with Tables)
8    IFCT - Financial Position and Performance (with Tables)
9    IFCT - Quality of Portfolio (with Tables)
10    IFCT - Details of Long-Term Resources as of December 31, 1975
(with Tables)
11    IFCT - Projected 'Operations, Resource Requirements and
Financial Situation (with Tables)
12    IFCT - Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
Chart No. 15863      IFCT Organization as of February 29, 1976






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
i.        The Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT) has requested
a third loan from the Bank. This report recommends a Bank loan of US$25 mil-
lion to IFCT with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand on the terms and
conditions usual for loans to development finance companies (DFCs). The loan
would help IFCT cover part of its untied foreign exchange resource needs
between FY76-78.
ii.       The Thai economy responded well to stimulative government policies
and began to show signs of recovery in 1975. The growth rate rose to 6.4%
in 1975 following a dip to 3.2% in the depressed economic climate of 1974.
Inflation was curbed sharply (from 24% in 1974 to 4% in 1975), labor unrest
subsided and increased energy costs were gradually absorbed. Nevertheless,
investment levels continued to decline as did the inflow of foreign capital.
The balance of payments was in overall deficit for the first time since 1971
and international reserves dropped by about US$100 million.
iii.      With the rapid exhaustion of new land available for cultivation,
Thailand will need to rely, more heavily than it has in the past, on further
industrialization to achieve its growth and employment objectives over the
next decade. The industrial sector, in which manufacturing predominates, is
already the second largest in the economy accounting for 26% of GDP, about
25% of the total investment and employing 7% of the total labor force. The
pattern of industrialization through the 1960's, when manufacturing's share
of GDP grew from 11.6% of GDP to 18.5%, was almost entirely import substitu-
tion oriented. Since 1970 an increasing export orientation in manufacturing
output resulted in manufactured exports increasing from US$34 million in 1969
to US$367 million in 1974. Thai manufacturing is, at present, fairly capital
intensive and has not yet made a major contribution to employment creation.
However, open unemployment and underemployment have not been of significance
in Thailand until very recently. With the emerging need to absorb a rapidly
growing labor force Thailand will need to expand and broaden manufacturing
activity, particularly of a labor-intensive nature; this implies the need,
among othier things, for the development of a larger number of small and
medium-sized industrial enterprises. In this connection, IFCT has been
instrumental in initiating a study aimed at determining the magnitude of
the small industry assistance problem and at exploring alternatives for cost
effective delivery of financial and technical assistance to SMI. Reforms are
needed in present tariff and incentive policies to promote efficient indus-
trialization; mechanisms for coordinating and implementing these policies
also need to be improved. On the investment side, despite present 1ncertain-
ties, private sector investment (i.e., disbursements) in man!fzicturing alone
is expected to be around Bt. 20 billion in the two-year period 1976 and 1977;
with investment activity being expected to pick up in late !q76 commitments
are expected to be between Bt. 25-28 billion in the two-year period 1977-78.
The proposed loan would account for roughly 2% of this aroouu1t.



- ii -
iv.       The Thai financial system is still in the early stages of its
development. There is a lack of diversity in both institutions and
financial instruments to meet the various preferences of savers, especially
small savers, in terms of risk, yield and liquidity combinations. There
is also a need for developing more effective vehicles for long-term inter-
mediation especially in the agricultural and housing sectors. The pace of
future financial system development in a desirable direction depends on:
reducing the extent to which commercial banks presently dominate all forms of
intermediation; and emphasizing continued development of the capital market.
The Bank of Thailand (BOT) has now initiated work on a review of the finan-
cial sector which is aimed at making concrete recommendations on the policy
and institutional changes required to improve the operations of the finan-
cial system. The IMF has already begun providing BOT with assistance on a
review of commercial banking; Bank assistance may need to be provided, in
the future, on a similar review of long-term lending institutions.
v.        The interest rate structure in Thailand is governed by the commer-
cial banks' prime lending rate which has for the past several years fluctuated
around 12%. Commercial bank rates are constrained within the lending rate
ceiling of 15% and the deposit rate ceiling of 8% applied by the BOT. IFCT
has, since 1974, been charging a rate of 10.5% on foreign currency loans and
9.5% on its domestic currency loans. In May 1976 IFCT raised its standard
interest rate to 12.0%. At negotiations for the proposed loan IFCT and the
Bank reached an understanding that ]:FCT's lending rate would be increased
again to 12.5% before July 1, 1977. This would mean that sub-borrowers would
be paying a real rate of around 6% to 6.5% (under present estimates of infla-
tion in Thailand) over the foreseeable future.
vi.        IFCT is the only specialized long-term industrial financing institu-
tion in Thailand. Although privately-owned (with a 47% foreign shareholding),
largely by other financial institutions, IFCT has close relationships with
the Government and takes care to ensure that investment is channelled in
general accord with the framework of industrial priorities. With an actively
interested Chairman of the Board, generally sound management (especially at
the department level) and staff of good professional calibre, IFCT has suc-
ceeded in expanding its operations dramatically in FY74-75 and has now shed
its dependence on expatriate advisors. To strengthen its top management,
IFCT has undertaken to appoint a Deputy General Manager by September 30, 1976.
IFCT's appraisals have shown gradual but consistent improvement. An increase
is, therefore, recommended in the individual sub-loan free limit to US$750,000
and in the aggregate free limit to US$10 million. A reorganization was recent-
ly effected to incorporate functions (especially long-term corporate planning)
which were not previously being systematically carried out and to improve
operational efficiency. It is expected that the changes made will prove to
be beneficial. IFCT's project supervision is sound, as are its procedures for
procurement and disbursement under its subloans and for project application
screening. It eventually hopes to acdopt the Project Monitoring System now
being developed within the Bank and is already taking steps to utilize the
DFC financial projections model which has been developed. In 1975 IFCT opened



- iii -
its first branch office in Haat Yai (the Southern Region) as a first step to-
ward an intensive program to promote projects outside the Central Region. In
1976 two more offices were opened in Khon Khaen (the Northeast) and Lampang
(the North).
vii.       IFCT's volume of lending operations in FY74 and FY75 increased
beyond all expectations. Loan approvals of Bt. 1.49 billion in those two
years exceeded total approvals in its preceding 14-year history (Bt. 1.08
billion) and marked IFCT's emergence as an institution of stature on the
Thai financial scene. As of December 31, 1975 IFCT had cumulatively made
301 loans for a total amount of Bt. 2.57 billion and had Bt. 1.34 billion
in 146 loans outstanding to 120 borrowers. Since 1973 two distinct types
of business have emerged: "large business" in which loan sizes average
around Bt. 36 million and "regular operations" with average loan sizes of
Bt. 8 million. IFCT's loan portfolio is reasonably well diversified by
industry but reflects the general geographic concentration of industry in
Thailand. FY75 also saw an unprecedented increase in equity investments;
four investments were approved amounting to Bt. 24.6 million. IFCT provides
guarantees largely as a financial service to existing borrowers and does not
consider guarantee operations a separate and special facet of its business; as
of end-FY75 guarantees outstanding amounted to Bt. 59.7 million. A detailed
analysis of IFCT's operations is provided in Annex 7.
viii.     Reflecting its growth in business, IFCT's financial position and
performance improved significantly in FY75 with assets increasing by 37% and
amounting to Bt. 1.48 billion (US$74 million) at year-end. Asset growth was
financed entirely by an increase in its long-term debt with available loans
from the ADB, the Bank and the EXIM Bank of Japan being drawn down at a
faster than expected rate. Long-term debt, which increased by 115% between
FY73-75 stood at Bt. 1.15 billion at end-FY75; over the same period IFCT's
equity grew, entirely through reserves build-up, by only 23% resulting in
an increase in IFCT's debt/equity ratio from 2.9 to 4.8 (well within the
contractual 6:1 limit). IFCT's liquidity position has also been main-
tained at prudent levels throughout. In view of its increased leverage
and growing asset base IFCT's profitability has increased at a respectable
rate. Net income grew by 42% in FY75 to Bt. 38.3 million, triple the FY71
level. However in relative terms it has stayed fairly stable at 3% of aver-
age total assets. The increase in income raised returns to average equity
from 12.5% to 16% and allowed IFCT to increase its dividend to 10%.
ix.       In view of the limitations posed by its equity base on further
borrowings to finance its expanded program, IFCT proposes to increase its
share capital by Bt. 100 million in 1976. As of July 31, 1976, Bt. 55 mil-
lion had been fully subscribed and paid-in. IFCT plans to issue the remain-
ing Bt. 45 million to the general public to widen its ownership base and
assist development of the securities market. Following the advice of its
underwriters IFCT proposes to proceed with the public issue in December
1976. It is expected that the issue will be fully taken up by January 1977.
With the capital increase, the present debt/equity limit does not need to be
raised. Additions to reserves have raised the book value of IFCT's shares



- iv -
to Bt. 1,689 (par Bt. 1,000); these shares are not yet traded publicly.
In a recent private transaction IFC sold its entire shareholding of 8,000
shares to the Mitsui Bank at a price of Bt. 1,600 per share. IFCT's cash flow
has been soundly managed in the past and the debt service cover has been
maintained at a prudent level. The quality of IFCT's portfolio remains quite
sound; arrears amounted to 2% of the principal outstanding while principal
affected amounted to 11%. Although this represents a higher level of overdues
than in the previous year it reflects the temporary impact of the economic
downturn on Thai manufacturing industries and not a structural deterioration
in the quality of IFCT's portfolio. IFCT's accounts have been regularly
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and have always been
certified without qualification. IFCT's projected operational and financial
performance between 1976-80 is analysed in Annex 11 and is expected to be
satisfactory.
x.        While IFCT's overall role in investment financing remains small,
its influence is exercised over about 25% of manufacturing investment in
Thailand (paragraph 6.01). Paradoxically, IFCT's investment levels have been
rising in a declining investment climate. This suggests that IFCT has over
the past two years been playing a significant developmental role in maintain-
ing investment momentum when other financial institutions are adopting a
wait-and-see attitude until the extant uncertainties in the Thai economic
and political environment are resolved.
xi.       The projects financed by IFCT during FY74-75 involve a total invest-
ment of around Bt. 6.4 billion and, on completion, are expected to generate
24,500 jobs resulting in an annual incremental payroll of about Bt. 430 mil-
lion. Incremental annual value-added by these projects is expected to amount
to nearly Bt. 1 billion. The ex-ante calculations of economic rates of re-
turn (ERR) for projects financed by IFCT in the past have varied from 13% to
80%; the weighted average ERR for the sub-projects financed under the last
Bank loan being around 46%. These projects are also expected to yield satis-
factory financial rates of return (between 12% and 42%, with the weighted
average being around 19%). Sub-projects to be financed under the proposed
loans are expected to yield similar returns. IFCT has played an active role
in promoting both capital market development (paragraph 6.06) and industrial
investment (paragraph 6.07). It is continuing to step up its efforts in
these directions. IFCT's performance in pursuing the development strategy
enunciated by it at the time of the last Bank loan has, on balance, been
creditable.
xii.      In view of IFCT's performance over the last two years in efficiently
allocating resources and playing a significantly stepped-up developmental role
in encouraging sound industrial investment, the proposed loan is justified.
It would allow IFCT to continue pursuing the successful course presently char-
ted and would continue the process of internal institution-building to which
the Bank has, so far, made a significant contribution.



- v 
xiii.     At negotiations with IFCT for the proposed loan, the following matters
were discussed and agreed upon:
(a)  an increase in IFCT's lending rate to 12.5% before July 1, 1977
(paragraph 3.12);
(b)  appointment of the Deputy General Manager (paragraph 4.04);
(c)  an individual sub-loan free limit of US$750,000 and an
aggregate free limit of US$10 million (paragraph 4.12);
(d)  maintaining the debt/equity limit at 6:1 (paragraph 5.05);
and
(e)  a sub-loan size limit of US$3.0 million (paragraph 8.07).






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT) has, with
the support of the Government, requested further Bank assistance for fi-
nancing capital goods imports to expand the productive capacity of the
Thai industrial sector. This report recommends a Bank loan of US$25 mil-
lion to IFCT with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand. The loan would
be made on standard terms and conditions applicable to DFC loans and a flex-
ible amortization schedule would be applied.
1.02      IFCT was established in 1959, under a special legislative act, to
encourage private investment in indigenous productive enterprises. It was
re-organized in 1963 and its capital base restructured with the assistance
of the Bank and IFC. At that time the Bank made its first loan of US$2.5
million and IFC bought 4,000 shares (at a cost of US$193,108) in IFCT. 1/
Between 1963-70 IFCT was in the doldrums; it suffered from internal manage-
ment problems, an uncompetitive posture vis-a-vis commercial banks and a
clientele generally unwilling to accept the scrutiny of rigorous project
appraisal or to assume the foreign exchange risk on external lines of credit
on-lent through IFCT. Consequently, less than US$1.05 million of the first
Bank loan was utilized and the balance cancelled. The loan has now been
fully repaid.
1.03      Since 1970 there has been a noticeable and continuing improvement
in IFCT's performance and its stature in the Thai financial community. Its
project appraisal procedures are gradually being accepted and its increased
level of operations has widened the number of investment decisions being
subjected to tests of financial and economic rationality. A second Bank
loan to IFCT for US$12.0 million was made in June 1974; its rate of commit-
ment and disbursement has exceeded earlier expectations. In addition to
Bank financing IFCT has received loans from other foreign sources including
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), the
Export-Import Bank of Japan (EXIM) and the Japanese and Danish Governments.
II. THE THAI ECONOMY 21
2.01      Aided by rapidly rising commodity prices and booming international
demand the Thai economy achieved a real growth rate of over 10% in 1973. In
1/   In December 1970 IFC bought a further 4,000 shares under a one-for-one
rights issue. All 8,000 shares were sold to the Mitsui Bank in February
1976 for US$640,000.
2/   The latest Bank Economic Report on Thailand (No. 924-TH, dated Novem-
ber 14, 1975) provides a recent review of developments in the economy
and of its prospects. An updating Economic Mission visited Thailand
in June 1976 and its report will be issued in the coming months.



- 2 -
1974 poor weather and worsening terms of trade coupled with recession in its
major export markets caused the growth rate to dip to 3.2%. Since then the
economy has begun to show signs o01 recovery and has responded well to stimu-
lative government policies despite continued weakness in the external sector.
Although an uncertain political climate co-Ln;,  t:  prevrai, a respectable
real growth rate of 6.4% was registered in 1975. With the abatement of in-
flation (which dropped from 24% in 1974 to 4% in 1975), good weather, qui-
escence on the labor front and the absorption of increased energy costs,
agricultural and industrial production led recovery. Nevertheless world-
wide recession and exaggerated perceptions of instability on the part of
the business community dampened private investment and the inflow of foreign
capital. The latter, coupled with lower export prices and volumes, led to
Thailand's incurring its first balance of payment deficit since 1971 and a
resultant decline in its international reserves of about US$100 million.
2.02      While prospects for continued recovery in 1976-77 appear reasonably
bright it is expected that the balance-of-payments situation will be tight
through the rest of this decade. At this stage, an insufficiency of needed
foreign exchange resources could effectively brake medium and long-term eco-
nomic growth. To avert this prospect the Thai government is (i) actively
stepping up its efforts to attract the inflow of official assistance; and
(ii) proceeding to restore stability, thus encouraging the resumption of pri-
vate capital flows at previous levels. Annex 1 provides a more detailed
account of relevant economic characteristics and recent developments.
III. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A.  The Industrial Sector
3.01      Economic Role and Growtlh:  Industry (manuifacturing, mining and
construction) constitutes the second largest sector of economic activity.
In 1975 it accounted for: 26% of GDP (at 1962 constant prices); about 25%
of total investment; and 7% of tot:al employment. Manufacturing alone ac-
counted for over 20% of GDP in 1975 and for about 5% of the total labor
force. The characteristics of the sector are outlined in Annex 2. In 1960
manufacturing output accounted for less than 12% of GDP and was oriented
almost entirely toward producing basic consumer goods. With substantial
opportunities for import substitution and an environment which encouraged
investment, manufacturing output grew at an-annual average rate of around 12%
between 1960-69. A sharp shift in orientation towards exports led manufactur-
ing output to grow at an even higher rate of 14% between 1970-73. At the end
of 1969 manufactured exports amounted to barely US$34 million or about 4.8%
of total merchandise exports and 3.5% of total value-added in manufacturing.
By 1974 they amounted to US$367 million, accounting for 14.6% of total exports
and 15.6% of total value-added in rmanufacturing, having grown at a rate three
times faster than that of the sector. By size, the most prominent industries
are food processing, beverages, tobacco, textiles, apparel, transport equipment
and petroleum refining; together they account for 70% of value-added in the
sector. Manufacturing industries remain heavily concentrated around Bangkok



and the Government's measures to encourage plant location in other areas have
not met with much success (Annex 2, paragraphs 10-11).
3.02      Industrial Employment and Small Industry Development:  At the end
of 1974 the industrial sector employed about 1.4 million persons or 7.9% of
a total labor force estimated at 17.7 million. Of these about 0.9 million, 1/
or about 5% of the labor force, were employed in the manufacturing sector
(Annex 2, paragraphs 8-9). This represents a relatively low level of labor
absorption for a sector which accounts for over 17% of total investment and
20% of GDP. Manufacturing employment is presently concentrated in very small
cottage type enterprises on the one hand and in large firms employing more
than 100 workers on the other. Investment costs per job in the very small
cottage units are low but most such units are generally inefficient and re-
latively unproductive. Larger firms, on the other hand, absorb considerable
quantities of capital in generating employment (an estimated average fixed
cost of US$7,500 per job). 2/ Consequently there are distinct limitations
on their role in significantly expanding productive job opportunities along
lines commensurate with Thailand's factor endowments.
3.03      At present, there are few small-medium industrial units (SMI) employ-
ing between 10-100 workers to fill the gap between these two extremes; such
units probably account for under 5% of the total number of enterprises, 10%
of employment and 15% of value-added in the industrial sector. The Govern-
ment generally recognizes that SMIs provide a promising vehicle for expand-
ing and dispersing investment and employment opportunities at a reasonable
capital cost without necessarily sacrificing the objectives of productivity,
efficiency and competitiveness. However, very little accurate information is
available on the key economic ratios of SMI (i.e. their use of capital and
labor) or about their capacity utilization levels, age of their plant and
equipment or their financing and technical assistance needs. Moreover, exist-
ing programs aimed at assisting SMI have not been very effective. This situ-
ation and the Government's commitment to SMI development over the Fourth Plan
period (1977-81) have led IFCT to take the initiative in launching a study
which would explore the dimensions of the SMI assistance problem and evaluate
alternative approaches to tackling it. The study will involve the participa-
tion of various government agencies and academic institutions and is intended
to result in the development of a project package which would be suitable for
financing by the Bank (Annex 2, paragraph 7).
3.04      Industrialization Strategy:  Thai industrialization, so far, has not
been based on the pursuit of a conscious, well articulated strategy. Its
1/   Of this about 0.6 million are employed in the Bangkok area with
manufacturing providing about a third of total urban employment
opportunities. Of this employment nearly a half is provided by
firms with more than 100 workers.
2/   Most of the investments promoted by the BOT had investment costs
per worker of around US$12,500 comparable to costs of job crea-
tion in similar projects in neighboring countries in S.E. Asia.



- 4 -
absence has not impeded industrial growth but it has resulted in Government's
not anticipating the side effects of investment decisions on industrial con-
centration, income distribution, labor absorption and patterns of foreign
ownership and control. Moreover, government agencies have not had a broad
frame of reference in responding to pressures applied by various fractionated
lobbies resulting in frequent and uncoordinated adjustments of policy in-
struments viz. taxes, tariffs and preferential access to credit. In several
instances such adjustments have had effects contrary to those intended on
investment, output, location and factor use. The radical political shift
brought about in 1973 has compelled succeeding governments to take greater
cognizance of the consequences of ad-hoc intervention in encouraging in-
dustrial development. Recent measures (on foreign investment, industrial
location and employment generation), provide evidence of the pressures on
Government to respond. Many of these measures have been conceived in haste
and some have been rendered ineffective by the inevitable need for the Gov-
ernment to compromise. A kaleidoscopic political situation over the past
two years has also made it difficult for successive governments to focus on
establishing clear cut priorities and to formulate and pursue a strategy
for industrial development acceptable to all interests. There are, however,
indications of slow but distinct progress in this direction. Flagging invest-
ment levels and low investor confidence have already activated the serious
consideration of various strategic options. The exhaustion of new settlement
areas and the limits placed on the agricultural sector's capacity to continue
absorbing greater quantities of labor have caused attention to be focussed on
employment absorption potential in the industrial sector. In addition, the
distant possibility of regional economic co-operation in basic industry pro-
jects (steel, fertilizer) has impressed upon Government the urgency of
developing a sound strategic posture. Under the circumstances described
above, the importance of having investment decisions subjected to tests of
financial and economic acceptability by institutions such as IFCT cannot be
overstated.
3.05      Industrial Protection and Promotion:  As elsewhere, industrial
investment in Thailand is influenced by:   (i) tariff and protection poli-
cies; 1/ and (ii) special fiscal incentives 2/ provided by the Government
and applied on a case-by-case basis by the BOI. A recent analysis of the
impact of existing protection and incentive policies suggests that, in general,
these policies have not resulted in inefficient high cost production across
the board. However, they have inadvertently resulted in favoring import sub-
stitution with higher "effective protection" being provided to industries
producing for the domestic market than to those producing for export markets.
Success in increasing manufactured exports has thus been achieved in spite
of rather than because of tax and tariff policies. Moreover, with frequent
adjustments having been made in the tariff structure, significant variations
in protection levels have resulted within and between various industry groups
for which there is no underlying rationale. Also, in certain industries the
Government has limited entry into the market to a few firms and intervened
1/   Annex 2, paragraphs 17-18.
2/   Annex 2, paragraph 19.



- 5 -
through direct price controls to prevent excessive profit-taking resulting
in realized levels of protection being much lower than the protection poten-
tially accorded.
3.06      The present uncoordinated application of tariffs, controls on im-
ports, exports and prices, registration and licensing policies and the case-
by-case provision of incentives has resulted in an unwieldy approach to
encouraging efficient industrial growth with some incentives being offset by
the impact of others. It has also resulted in an immense administrative bur-
den on BOI. Accordingly the Bank has, in the context of its continuing
dialogue with the Government on economic matters and sector policies, recom-
mended a complementary two-part incentive strategy based on: (i) a general
system of non-discretionary incentives based on tariffs and tax exemptions
which would be applied to broad classes of industries; and (ii) a detailed
discretionary review of only major projects in basic industries. These
recommendations are expected to be taken up again with the newly elected
Government once it has had the opportunity to review and react to them.
3.07      Given the BOI's very broad scope of discretion and the importance
of sound decision-making on its part the Bank has recommended that the in-
ternal evaluation capabilities of BOI be strengthened and its focus shifted
from evaluating individual projects to establishing priorities for major sub-
sectors. The Government and BOI readily accept the need for such measures
and, as a first step, have begun exploring avenues for grant assistance to
finance a program of broad studies which would focus on issues influencing
co-ordinated industrial development and on improved BOI operations (Annex 2,
paragraph 20). The Government's commitment to carrying out such studies has
been reaffirmed in an undertaking to the Bank included in the Guarantee
Agreement for the proposed loan.
3.08      Investment in Manufacturing:  After an uninterrupted trend of in-
creases in manufacturing investment, estimates for 1975 suggest that it
declined for the first time since 1971. In current prices investment in
manufacturing has grown from Bt. 3.1 billion in 1967 to over Bt. 10 billion
(US$500 million) in 1975 with roughly 90% of that investment going toward
the purchase of machinery and equipment by the private sector. Since 1967
the share of manufacturing in gross fixed capital formation has risen from
12.5% to over 20% in 1974 (dipping to around 18% in 1975); it has tradition-
ally accounted for about one-third of total annual expenditures on machinery
and equipment. As investment and application levels to the BOI have declined
substantially in 1975 it is unlikely that expenditures on manufacturing in-
vestments will exceed Bt. 20 billion (US$1 billion) over the two-year period
1976-77. Commitments, however, are expected to pick up in the latter half of
1976 and may total about Bt. 25-28 billion over the two-year period 1977-78.
The proposed loan would account for between 1.7% to 2% of this amount and
would contribute toward the provision of needed long-term official assistance
resources.



- 6 -
B. The Financial Sector
3.09      Overview:  The Thai financial system is still in the early stages
of development. Its institutional structure and characteristics are de-
scribed in Annex 3. Total assets oi- the system stood at Bt. 156 billion
(US$7.8 billion) as at October 31, :L975 of which the banking system accounted
for Bt. 110 billion. The organized financial sector has traditionally been
dominated by sixteen Thai-owned commercial banks; between them they account
for 94% of total deposits, 90% of all advances and 91% of the banking system's
assets. While foreign banks have been allowed to establish themselves their
role has been sharply limited (by restrictions on the number of branches they
are allowed to establish) to dealing largely with multinational companies
and external sector transactions. ALs is characteristic of other sectors
in the Thai economy the financial system is largely privately owned. However,
the Government owns the second largest commercial bank, the country' s only
savings bank and most of the specialized financial institutions which have
been created to channel resources into priority sectors. The Government also
plays a prominent and direct role in influencing financial system behavior and
development through the Bank of Thailand and the Ministry of Finance.
3.10      Financial Sector Development:  The growth of Thai financial institu-
tions and markets has not kept pace with: (a) the diverse demands of a domestic
economy increasing in its sophistication; and (b) the pressing need for better
articulation with an increasingly complex international financial system. The
recent emergence and rapid growth of finance companies in the short span of
five years is one indicator of the extent to which intermediation needs exceed
the ability of the present financial system to meet them. The findings of a
recent survey, which suggest that over 80% of the credit needs of the rural
sector are met by the "unorganized" system, is another. At present, the
financial system does not provide sufficiently diverse opportunities for
attracting financial savings in instruments with maturities of over a year.
Excessively heavy reliance is placed on deposits with commercial banks and
the Government Savings Bank (GSB). The private sector, and particularly the
small saver, has little direct access to investing in instruments which meet
different preferences for various cormbinations of risk, yield and liquidity.
Thus a lack of options results in funds flowing almost exclusively into the
commercial banking system, the unorganized market and, to a much lesser
extent, into Government securities through GSB. This pattern of mobiliza-
tion also affects the manner in which funds are allocated. Most lending
from commercial banks is (with an unjjustifiably large spread) to estab-
lished borrowers in the industrial and trade sectors on the basis of secu-
rity and for a short term. With government pressure a very small proportion
of these funds has been made available for long-term industrial lending
(through the purchase of IFCT debentures) and agricultural lending (through
deposits with BAAC). Although financE companies have introduced an element of
diversity into the system they cater mainly to large savers but again through
a quasi-deposit device and lend to generally the same clientele as commercial
banks. In fact, finance company behavior is influenced largely by commercial
banks who are their principal shareholders. As a result these companies have
concentrated on short-term operations and largely ignored long-term financing
and merchant banking operations.



- 7 -
3.11      Policy Measures:  The pace of future financial system development
in a desirable direction depends on: (i) reduction of the extent to which
commercial banks presently dominate all forms of intermediation; and (ii)
emphasis on the growth of a capital market and of long-term financing
institutions which would facilitate such growth. Policy measures which
would achieve the first objective include: eliminating the exemption from
income tax of interest income from commercial bank deposits; encouraging
the entry of new domestic commercial banks; discouraging cartelization of
the banking sector; and removing ceilings on all interest rates 1/ and allow-
ing them to be determined by the play of market forces. The second objec-
tive is, to some extent, being achieved through support for the newly es-
tablished Securities Exchange of Thailand (SET) and for the Mutual Fund Co.
being established by IFCT. However, policy measures are also needed to induce:
a greater number of corporations to publicly float their issues; establishment
of liquidity mechanisms to facilitate their underwriting and purchase; and
development of the insurance and pension fund industries which, in turn,
could spur development of the capital market. Moreover, government securities
of varying kinds should be offered publicly and institutions such as IFCT and
BAAC should be encouraged to raise funds directly from the public rather than
mobilize them secondarily. On the other side of the coin the possibility of
expanding GSB's role in lending to the rural communities from which it col-
lects savings should be carefully considered.
3.12      Interest Rates:  The interest rate structure in Thailand is governed
by the commercial banks' prime lending rate but its movement is constrained
by ceiling rates (15% for advances and 8% for deposits) set by the Bank of
Thailand (Annex 3, paragraphs 30-34). The prime rate (which has fluctuated
around 12% for the past ten years) was, until 1975, established by the inter-
bank agreement of the Thai Bankers' Association. Since early 1975, individ-
ual banks have been setting their own prime rates. The deposit rate, on the
other hand, has been 5% for 3-6 month deposits, 6% for 6-12 month deposits
and 7% for deposits of over 12 months until 1975 when all deposit rates were
increased by 1%. Between 1966-72, with an inflation rate averaging about
2-3%, real rates of lending were in the region of 9-10% while real yields
on savings were an average 3-4%. In 1973-74, the rate of inflation peaked at
24% before climbing down to 4% in 1975. resulting in a short period during
which real yields on loans and deposits were highly negative. There was no
evidence, however, of financial savings being significantly affected as a
result. With inflation expected to level off at around 6% through the remain-
der of this decade real yields on savings will still be positive although
somewhat lower than pre-1973 unless rates are moved upwards marginally. IFCT
had, between 1966-73, generally maintained its rate at around 9.5%. In 1974
it moved its foreign currency rate up to 10.5% to cover the cost of providing
for the foreign exchange risk; in May 1976 it increased its standard lending
rate to 12.0%. Taking into account the rising cost of its funds IFCT has
1/   These measures were recommended by the IMF in 1973.  Legislation is
now being proposed to tax interest income from Bank deposits at a flat
rate of 10%. The National Assembly is considering the laws drafted and
if passed such a tax would become effective by October 1, 1976.



- 8 -
undertaken to revise its rates upward to 12.5% 1/ by July 1, 1977.  This
would result in sub-borrowers paying a real rate of around 6% to 6.5% over the
commitment period of the loan and beyond.
IV. IFCT - INSTI:TUTIONAL CHARACTERISTICS
4.01      Charter and Ownership.  IFCT was established under a special
legislative Act 2/ as a privately owned corporation. Its ownership was di-
vided between domestic and foreign shareholders with the latter (including
IFC) accounting for 47.4% of paid-in share capital as of December 31, 1975
(Annex 4). Commercial banks accounted for nearly 69% of the total share-
holdings 3/ with the government-owned Krung Thai Bank being the largest
single shareholder (accounting for 16.4% of outstanding shares). Other
financial institutions accounted for a further 16.1% of the shareholding
leaving a balance of only 14.9% which was owned by non-financial companies
(10.3%) and private individuals (4.6%). IFCT's initial share capital of
Bt. 6.1 million has been increased four times and amounted to Bt. 150 mil-
lion as at end-FY75. Share capital was last increased by Bt. 50 million
in September 1973; later this year, IFCT proposes to increase it again by
Bt. 100 million. Although privately-owned, IFCT enjoys a close relationship
with the Government at policy-making levels; the Chairman of the Board is
usually the government appointed director on IFCT's Board, its General
Managers have, in the past, been recruited from the Government/BOT hierar-
chies, and an observer from the Ministry of Finance attends all Board
meetings to provide the government point of view on IFCT's investments.
4.02      Board of Directors:  IFCT has a 10-member Board which includes
its General Manager (Annex 5). Three of its directors represent foreign
shareholders, one represents the Government and the remaining six represent
domestic shareholders. The present Board strongly reflects the predominance
of financial institutions in IFCT's ownership. The banking background of nine
of its directors 4/ gives the Board a fairly conservative complexion although
it has the advantage of the Board's being thoroughly conversant with the
nature of IFCT's business and clientele. As opportunities arise in the
1/   IFCT's borrowers do not bear the foreign exchange risk; it is shared
by the Government and IFCT.
2/   The IFCT Act of 1959.  It has since been amended in 1962, 1963,
and 1967.
3/   With the recent sale of IFC's shareholding to the Mitsui Bank in
February 1976 the commercial banks' share of ownership rose to
74.3%.
4/   One is an industrialist.



-9-
future for diversifying IFCT ownership, a conscious effort should be made
to widen representation on the Board in terms of directors' professions,
occupations, experience and educational backgrounds. The present Chairman,
Khun Sommai Hoontrakool, plays an active role in guiding IFCT's affairs
and emphasizing its developmental role. Previously General Manager of
IFCT for two years Khun Sommai was appointed Minister of Finance in the
transition government of Premier Sanya Dhamasakdi. His ability and
dynamism are a distinct asset to IFCT.
4.03      The Board normally meets monthly to review policy matters and to
approve loans which exceed 5% of IFCT's net worth. 1/ Loans of a smaller
amount are approved by an Executive Committee appointed by the Board which
comprises four members: the Chairman, General Manager and two other directors,
one of whom represents foreign shareholders. This Committee meets weekly both
to approve loans within its authority and to screen larger loans before their
submission to the full Board.
4.04      Management:  IFCT's present management, headed by the General
Manager, also includes two department managers and two deputy managers.
One of the department managers, recently appointed to head the newly estab-
lished Research and Planning Department (RPD), is a well qualified and able
individual who is expected to lend strength to the management team. The
departure of IFCT's Assistant General Manager (concurrently manager of the
Projects Department) in January 1976 has left a temporary void which IFCT
is actively attempting to fill by recruiting a Deputy General Manager (DGM).
This position is of considerable importance in adding depth to, and balanc-
ing executive capabilities in, the present management. This matter was dis-
cussed by the Bank and IFCT at negotiations and agreement was reached that
the DGM position would be filled by September 30, 1976 at the latest.
4.05      At the department level, the manager of the Operations Department
(OD) is, at present, also managing the Projects Department (DP). He is ably
assisted by two newly appointed deputy managers in each of these Departments.
These positions have been created as a stop-gap measure until the deputies
have gained sufficient experience to be promoted to managerial rank. The
Administration Department (AD) Manager's position has remained vacant for
some time and the workload has been handled directly by the General Manager.
The appointment of a manager to this position has not been of urgent priority
especially as excellent divisional support has been available. However, the
workload has now increased significantly and such an appointment is being given
active consideration. At the divisional level three experienced division
chiefs in key positions have recently been promoted or transferred. Their
replacements are capable, but need to acquire further experience. Sufficient
strength exists within the management structure, however, to absorb the addi-
tional load until they do.
1/   This loan limit was Bt. 12.7 million as of December 31, 1975.  In view
of the impending increase in IFCT's share capital the Board has passed
a resolution setting an absolute limit of Bt. 15 million for loans which
could be approved by the Executive Committee.



10 -
4.C6      Organization:  Major organizational changes were made by IFCT in
February 1976 which, to a large extent, reflected the Bank's previous rec-
ommendations. As depicted in Chart No. 15863 these included:
(a) the creation of RPD;
(b) the restructuring of divisional activity in PD;
(c) the (temporary) creation of two deputy manager positions
(paragraph 4.05); and
(d)  the establishment of branch offices (paragraph 4.09).
RPD's departmental functions cover: (i) long-range corporate planning;
(ii) management support by way oi- policy and position papers on various
issues; (iii) economic and industry/financial sector and project analysis;
(iv) project planning and promotiLon; and (v) dealing with the overall in-
formation requirements of external creditor agencies and management. The
department is not fully staffed a1S yet but recruitment is being actively
undertaken. Although RPD is a new addition to IFCT's organization it has,
principally through its manager, begun playing an active and vital role
in formulating policy options for IFCT's management. Staff in PD's three
functional divisions (engineering, financial analysis and market analysis)
have been regrouped into complete appraisal teams divided between three
divisions which are specialized along sector/industry lines. This change
was brought about to effect closer coordination in appraisal work and to
develop greater appraisal team expertise in understanding the characteris-
tics and problems of firms in particular industries. The internal struc-
tures of OD (which is responsible for supervision) and AD have remained
essentially intact. IFCT's present organization is sound. It incorporates
functions which were previously not being carried out in IFCT and is expected
to result in both greater operational efficiency and increased job satisfac-
tion for IFCT staff.
4.07      Staffing:  At the end olf FY75 IFCT had a total staff complement
of 163 representing a net increase of 13 staff during the year. Profes-
sional staff accounted for 86 or just over half the total. The two opera-
tional departments accounted for 66 staff members (or just over 40% of the
total staff employed). IFCT staff, taken as a whole, had a good mix of di-
verse professional backgrounds and were reasonably distributed by age; how-
ever, over the last two years the age distribution has been skewed down-
wards by the influx of recent grad'uates into IFCT between 1974-75. Staff
are generally of good calibre although the proportion of experienced staff,
particularly in the operating departments, has been reduced. Staff turnover,
traditionally quite high in the past, was much lower in 1974-75 with turnover
in 1975 accounting for less than 4% of the average number of staff during the
year. This stability is, to a significant extent, attributable to the lessen-
ing capacity of the urban economy to absorb highly trained graduates and a
slowdown in the number of new companies entering the financial sector.
Nonetheless, part of the credit in stabilizing turnover at low levels is



- 11 -
due to IFCT's efforts to ensure the competitiveness of its overall compen-
sation package, the element of relatively greater job security and manage-
ment's concerted attempts at maintaining high levels of motivation and job
satisfaction.
4.08      Advisors:  For the first time in its history, IFCT has completely
shed its dependence on foreign advisors. Three foreign advisors completed
their terms in 1975 and IFCT staff successfully absorbed their functions.
One UNIDO-provided expert in chemical engineering completed his term in April
1976. IFCT has generally found its experience with advisors to have been
beneficial and feels that the advisors have played a key role in both advis-
ing ;7.nagement and developing IFCT staff to a level of reasonable institu-
tic - self-sufficiency.
4.09      Training and Staff Development:  IFCT now has a much greater pro-
portion of new staff in PD and OD. With proportionately fewer experienced
analysts to provide guidance, IFCT realizes that its continued reliance on
"on-the-job" training is likely to result in a much longer period before
new staff members become fully effective. Furthermore the need to provide
training for older staff in newer project appraisal methods and techniques
(particularly in market and economic analysis) is becoming more apparent.
IFCT is, therefore, considering the possibility of providing formal training
and planning staff development more systematically than it has done in the
past. Attention is now being given to developing: (i) a policy/operations
manual for internal use as a reference guide and for training purposes;
(ii) training courses in various aspects of project appraisal with stress
on economic evaluation; and (iii) courses in corporate financing aimed at
upgrading IFCT staff capability to provide corporate finance advice to
clients on capitalization, public flotation of shares, bonds or debentures,
etc., so as to promote and develop a merchant banking aspect to IFCT's role.
Management and the Chairman have begun planning a suitable internal training
program geared to meet IFCT's needs.
4.10      Branch Offices:   Following approval by its Board early in 1975,
IFCT opened its first branch office at Haat Yai (in the South) in December
1975. In 1976, branch offices were opened in Khon Khaen (the. North East)
and Lampang (the North). Launched as one-man offices, the branches' princi-
pal function is to establish rapport with the local business community and
acquaint it with IFCT's services. Building on that base IFCT plans to develop
new business in regional centers. IFCT's approach to the establishment of its
three branches has been cautious and sound; it has taken care in adequately
laying the groundwork in each case by recruiting an experienced individual
who knows the locality well and providing him with intensive training at the
Head Office. The Haat Yai branch has, in its first two months of operation,
been remarkably successful in identifying 19 new projects in the region (vs.
three new applications to the Head Office in the same period). The other
two branches have just been established and have yet to commence operations.
4.11      Policies and Procedures:  IFCT's basic operating guidelines are
set forth in a Statement of Operating Policies (Annex 6) agreed with the



- 12 -
Bank. There have been no recent amendments to the policy statement. It
was changed at the time of the last Bank loan to incorporate the revision of
IFCT's debt/equity limit and its policies on sharing the foreign exchange risk
with the Government. The statement is similar to that adopted by most DFCs
associated with the World Bank Group. Its key features are: (i) a debt/equity
limit of 6:1; (ii) an exposure liimit of 25% of its own net worth 1/ in any
single enterprise; (iii) an equity investment limit of 10% of its net worth 2/
for any individual investment and an aggregate limit on all such investments
equivalent to its own net worth; (iv) a lending "floor" of Bt. 1 million
(US$50,000); (v) a limitation on IFCT's taking up more than 25% of the total
outstanding shares issued by any single enterprise; (vi) a reserves policy
which requires setting aside at least 30% of annual profits (25% as a bad debt
reserve and 5% as legal reserves) until bad debt reserves total at least 20%
of its outstanding portfolio 3/ and legal reserves are at least 10% of paid-in
share capital.
4.12      Project Appraisal:  The quality of IFCT's project appraisal work
is satisfactory and has shown consistent improvement over the past two years.
This is, in part, traceable to the influence of rigorous standards set by
IFCT's previous advisors; the credit in responding to and maintaining such
standards, however, belongs entirely to IFCT's staff. This achievement
is especially notable in view of the rapidly increased workload 4/ in 1974 and
1975 and the fact that IFCT's borrowers are not prone to providing information,
especially on financial aspects, too readily. Appraisal time generally
varies between 2-6 months, the average being around 5 months largely because
of problems with access to reliable information. The present quality of
appraisal notwithstanding, there remains scope for continued improvement and
for a reduction in processing time. With the last Bank loan IFCT began
calculating economic rates of return for all projects for which sub-loans
exceeded Bt. 10 million 5/ and/or the total project cost exceeded Bt. 30
million regardless of sub-loan amounts.  IFCT is now expected to include the
economic rates of return in all appraisals (except very small projects) as a
1/   The exposure limit covers the sum total of loans, guarantees, equity
investments or preferred share/debenture holdings in any enterprise.
As of December 31, 1975 this limit amounted to Bt. 63.33 million.
2/   This limit was Bt. 25.3 million as at December 31, 1975.
3/   As at December 31, 1975, reserves and provisions amounted to 7.8% of
the outstanding portfolio.
4/   The number of projects appraised increased from 16 in FY73 to 44 in FY74
and 56 in FY75 while the number of staff increased from 20 to 29 in FY74
and further to only 31 in FY75. Man-months per appraisal declined from
15 in FY73 to 6.4 in FY75.
5/   This floor has now been lowered to Bt. 8 million.



- 13 -
matter of course. With the entry of the Manager of RPD on the Investment
Committee it is expected that the quality of economic analysis will improve
further. A comparison of actual project performance with appraisal expecta-
tions suggests that, in the past, IFCT's appraisals have tended to use some-
what optimistic assumptions especially on capacity utilization, prices and
markets. Continuous feed-back between appraisal and supervision work should
be encouraged so that actual experience can influence judgements made during
appraisal; closer supervisory control may need to be exercised to ensure that
relatively new staff acquire the benefit of available experience. In view of
the quality of IFCT's appraisals it was agreed, during negotiations, that the
free limit would be increased to US$750,000 and the aggregate free limit to
US$10 million under the proposed loan.
4.13      Project Follow-Up:  IFCT has an exceptionally sound project super-
vision system, with close follow-up being carried out during implementation
and after commencement of commercial operations. Client/project performance
is closely scrutinized with the frequency and intensity of scrutiny being
stepped up in problem cases. Regular and thorough progress reports are pre-
pared based on extensive reporting requirements and frequent field visits.
Collection performance is regularly reviewed on an account-by-account basis
and, when necessary, loans are rescheduled in a timely manner. The high
quality of IFCT's supervision has been largely responsible for its arrears
being kept under control (paragraph 5.08) and has earned IFCT the respect
of many of its clients who have benefited from the advice received during the
course of project follow-up.
4.14      Project Screening and Monitoring:  Before appraisal, loan applica-
tions are cursorily screened to establish prima facie viability and eligibi-
lity for IFCT financing. With a much heavier project load than prior to
1973, IFCT s screening mechanism needs to be improved to ensure that time
is not wasted unnecessarily at the appraisal stage. A review of the screen-
ing report by a sub-Investment Committee, comprising the three managers of
PD, RPD and OD (and including the chief legal officer), prior to its sub-
mission to the General Manager for authorization to proceed with appraisal
would be a useful introduction. After appraisal, project reports are re-
viewed by the Investment Committee 1/ and often revised following such a
review before going through the General Manager to the Executive Committee
and the Board.
4.15      IFCT was among the first in a sample set of institutions to try
out the Project Monitoring System being developed by the Bank on a limited
number of its sub-projects. The results of that experiment were encouraging
and IFCT is willing to adopt the system once it is refined. As a parallel
1/   The IC includes:  the General Manager; the managers of OD, PD and
RPD; the division chiefs in PD and OD; the Secretary and the Chief
of the Legal Division.



- 14 -
effort IFCT should consider regular evaluations of operating projects and
determine whether experience has borne out appraisal expectations.
4.16      Procurement and Disbursements:  IFCT's procurement procedures are
designed to ensure that items financed by it are procured with due regard
;-r economy and efficiency. It generally requires borrowers to obtain at
least three competitive quotations from different suppliers. These are
carefully checked by PD whose technical scrutiny of the equipment procured
and the competitiveness of its price is comprehensive and thorough. Dis-
bursement procedures are also prudently conceived. IFCT ensures that the
borrowers' own funds are applied first to project costs. Disbursements from
sub-loan funds are generally staggered and are linked to the schedule of
project implementation; they are only made against the submission of satis-
factory documentation i.e. invoices, receipts or construction advances in
the case of domestic currency disbursements and letters of credit or bills
of lading for foreign currency disbursement. The procurement and disburse-
ment procedures applied by IFCT satisfactorily comply with the requirements
of the Bank.
V. IFCT, OPERATIONS, FINANCES AND PORTFOLIO QUALITY
5.01      Lending Operations:  A detailed analysis of IFCT's operations
is presented in Annex 7. IFCT's level of loan approvals in FY74 and FY75
has considerably exceeded previous expectations. From an average level of
around Bt. 150 million between FY70-73, net loan approvals have jumped to an
annual average level of around Bt. 750 million between FY74-75 with approvals
in those two years exceeding total approvals between FY60-73. Net approvals
of nearly Bt. 786 million for 54 loans in FY75 brought total loan approvals
since IFCT's inception to nearly Bt. 2.6 billion. As of December 31, 1975
IFCT had Bt. 1.34 billion outstanding in 146 loans to 120 borrowers. The
ratio of domestic to foreign currency lending is about 40:60 representing
a shift toward an increasing proportion of foreign currency financing 1/
from FY71 onwards. The average size of loan is around Bt. 13-14 million;
however, this figure obscures the distinct differences between IFCT's hand-
ful of large loan operations (which average Bt. 36 million in size) and its
regular business (averaging around Bt. 8 million).
5.02      IFCT's loans generally have maturities averaging around 6 years.
Grace and maturity periods are inclined to be somewhat short, reflecting IFCT's
somewhat rigid approach to basing rescovery periods too strongly on cash flow
projections without allowing sufficiently for margins of error. Lending
1/   As explained in Annex 7, paragraph 4, a sizeable portion of IFCT's
foreign currency lending is in tied funds. The proposed Bank loan will
enable IFCT to increase its foreign currency lending from about 60% to
around 75% of total loan approvals in 1976-77.



- 15 -
operations, reflecting the basic concentration of Thai industry, tend to be
heavily focussed on investments in the Central Region. For reasons explained
in Annex 2, paragraph 10 and Annex 7, paragraph 8, IFCT's concerted efforts at
dispersing its lending operations have been thwarted by factors beyond its
control. Nonetheless, management intends to step up such efforts through the
establishment of branches and through the new project promotion section set up
in RPD. The loan portfolio is reasonably well diversified by industry; four
basic industries viz. food, textiles, chemicals and non-metallic minerals 1/
account for about 66% of total commitments between FY73-75. IFCT's lending
operations also reflect the thrust toward export orientation in manufacturing
which began in FY70. There is a fairly even split between new and expansion
projects in IFCT's financing. One slightly disconcerting feature of IFCT's
lending operations is the increasing number of applications being received for
financing projects which are in a fairly late stage of development and in
which IFCT's scope for exercising some influence over investment decisions is
therefore restricted. 2/ This development has also concerned IFCT's Board
which, in a recent resolution, instructed management to limit IFCT's financing
of such operations to exceptional cases where clear justification existed for
doing so. This action on the part of IFCT's Board is considered to be suffi-
cient indication of the seriousness of IFCT's intent to curb such operations.
5.03      Equity Investments and Guarantees:  After a four year period of
relative inactivity IFCT approved 4 equity investments totalling Bt. 24.6
million (Annex 7,paragraph 11) in FY75. As of December 31, 1975 IFCT's equity
investment portfolio stood at Bt. 8.2 million in four companies and undis-
bursed commitments for equity investments amounted to Bt. 31.8 million. Guar-
antee operations have never been of much significance since IFCT restricts
the issue of guarantees to its borrowers to cover letters of credit, deben-
ture repayments and payment of import duties. As of December 31, 1975 IFCT's
outstanding guarantees stood at Bt. 59.7 million. Neither equity investments
nor guarantee operations are likely to expand significantly in the near
future. 3/
5.04      Financial Position and Performance:  Annex 8 provides full details
on IFCT's financial position and performance; summarized balance sheets and
income statements for the period FY71-75 are shown in Annex 8, Tables 1 and
2 respectively. On December 31, 1975 IFCT's total assets stood at Bt. 1.48
1/   These industries are also the most prominent in the mnaufacturing
sector (Annex 2, paragraph 3).
2/   Because of intensive sub-project review procedures there have been very
few instances in which IBRD funds have been used to finance such opera-
tions. In each such instance IFCT was requested to provide special
justification.
3/   The reasons are provided in Annex 7, paragraphs 15 and 17.



- 16 -
billion (US$74 million) having increased by over 37% during the year, a
slight dip from the 40% growth recorded in 1974. Rapid asset growth over
the past two years reflects the stepped up level of long-term lending opera-
tions, the proportion of outstanding long-term loans in the asset base rising
from 78% to 91% between FY73 and FY75 1/. Although IFCT's equity portfolio
also grew dramatically in FY75 (from Bt. 0.4 million to Bt. 8.2 million) the
size of the portfolio is still too small to have any significant impact on the
structure of the asset base.
5.05      The growth of long-term Loan assets was financed almost entirely
by a concomitant growth in long-term debt, particularly foreign debt. Where-
as IFCT's long-term debt grew by an average of 16% between FY70-73 the growth
rate jumped to an average 47% in FY74-75 representing very rapid draw downs
on lines of credit provided by the Bank, ADB and EXIM. While the outstanding
long-term debt increased by 115% between FY73 and FY75 (from Bt. 0.53 billion
to Bt. 1.15 billion), IFCT's equity grew by only 23% (from Bt. 205 million to
Bt. 253 million), the growth being accounted for by additions to reserves.
As a result IFCT's debt/equity ratio rose from 2.9:1 in FY73 to 4.8:1 at end
FY75, still well within the ceiling, of 6:1 established under the loan agreement
for the last Bank loan. IFCT's liquidity position also remains sound, the
current ratio being 1.7 in FY75. W'ith its large level of undisbursed com-
mitments (Bt. 320.4 million at end FY75) and the inflow of funds from its
recent Bt. 150 million debenture issue, IFCT would exceed the 6:1 debt/equity
limit by the third quarter of FY76. To avert this possibility IFCT is pro-
ceeding with an equity issue of Bt. 100 million later this year, part of which
it expects to float publicly through underwriters. As of July 31, 1976 Bt. 55
million (which had been allocated to existing shareholders, IFCT employees
and to the Mutual Fund Co.) had been subscribed and paid-in. On the advice
of its underwriters IFCT has decided to float the remaining BT. 45 million to
the general public in December 1976 and the issue is expected to be fully paid-
in by January 1977. The arrangements being entered into by IFCT with its under-
writers are satisfactory. IFCT's decision to float 45% of its capital issue
publicly has exceeded the Bank's earlier expectations. It should contribute
significantly to widening IFCT's ownership base and toward increasing the sup-
ply of securities in an embryonic capital market. On the basis of IFCT's pro-
jections an increase in the present debt/equity limit of 6:1 is not considered
necessary at this time; it was agreed at negotiations that this limit would
be maintained for the present.
5.06      The booming volume of operations has had a salutary impact on
IFCT's financial performance. Net income for FY75 was Bt. 38.3 million
representing a 42% increase over the previous year; it has tripled from
FY71 levels. Income growth is attributable entirely to an increase in the
portfolio with increased interest charges being offset by increased financial
expenses resulting in a constant gross spread. Administrative expenses have
been maintained at the historical level of 1.5% of average total assets.
Although IFCT's profit levels have increased, as a percentage of average
total assets, net income has remained relatively constant at about 3% over
the last three years. Owing to higher leverage, however, returns to aver-
age equity have risen from around 12.5% to 16.1% in FY75 allowing IFCT to
1/   The Baht value of long-term loans increased from Bt. 601.1 million
in FY73 to Bt. 1,342.6 million in FY75.



- 17 -
raise its dividend from 9.5% in FY74 to 10.0% in FY75. In anticipation of
public trading of its shares over the medium term, IFCT hopes to gradually
increase its dividends to around 12.0% by FY79.  Judging by competing issues
in the capital market even a 12% dividend is likely to be too low to attract
active interest in IFCT's shares on the part of small non-institutional in-
vestors in the immediate future. 1/
5.07      Foreign Exchange Risk:  The relatively low level of IFCT's foreign
currency lending operations prior to FY74 was attributable, in part, to bor-
rowers being unwilling to accept a foreign exchange risk. The Baht is fully
convertible and borrowers can normally borrow in Baht and swap for foreign
currencies in spot transactions without incurring any risk. In March 1974, a
Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement was signed between the Ministry of Finance and
IFCT whereby, without being totally relieved of possible losses as a result of
foreign currency realignments, IFCT could cover such losses without sudden
adverse effects on its finances. Details of the agreement and the mandatory
foreign exchange risk provisions which IFCT now has to make are provided in
Annex 8, paragraph 9.
5.08      Portfolio Quality:  IFCT's loan, equity investment and guarantee
portfolios are of sound quality. Arrears (principal and interest) on the
loan portfolio, at the end of FY75, amounted to Bt. 27.6 million (or 2% of
the outstanding portfolio) for the accounts of 18 client companies. The
principal outstanding affected by overdue accounts amounted to Bt. 149.2
million or 11% of the outstanding portfolio. In proportionate terms both
arrears and principal affected have increased over FY74 levels when they
were 1.1% and 6% of the loan portfolio respectively. This reflects more
the temporary effects of an economic downturn, which has affected a large
number of manufacturing companies (especially in export industries e.g.
tapioca and textiles), rather than being indicative of a structural deter-
ioration in portfolio quality. Roughly 55% of overdues are accounted for
by two companies (both their accounts being more than one year overdue). 2/
IFCT's equity portfolio is generally sound; two of its investments were in
companies which had not begun operating profitably until 1973. However, they
have now turned the corner and their prospects for continued profitability
are encouraging. Of its guarantees issued for eight companies, one (for a
1/   IFCT's shares are not publicly traded at present.  Against a par value
of Bt. 1,000 the book value of an IFCT share was Bt. 1,689 at end
FY75. IFC sold its shares to Mitsui Bank under a private arrangement
in February 1976 at Bt. 1,600 per share.
2/   One of these companies faces temporary market acceptance difficulties
with a new product. The other (a deep sea fishing company) has had
unforeseen mishaps with its vessels but is now operating profitably
and gradually paying off its accounts. In both instances IFCT has
withheld account restructuring so as to pressure these companies to
take necessary actions in improving their financial performance. On
April 7, 1976 IFCT informed the Bank of actions taken to resolve the
problems faced by the first company. These actions are expected to
result in a significant improvement in IFCT's arrearages position.



- 18 -
cmipany now in liquidation) was in default for a balance of Bt. 1.2 million
or 2% of the outstanding guarantee portfolio. IFCT has made sufficiently
prudent provisions for losses on doubtful accounts based on a thorough
L,view of each account. The arrears position is analysed in depth in
Annex 9.
5.09      Audit:  IFCT's auditors - Na. Thalang & Co. - are associated with
the Sycip, Gorres & Velayo (SGV) Group and have audited its accounts since
1972. Their reports are thorough and satisfactorily meet the Bank's require-
ments. IFCT's accounts have always been certified without qualification.
VI. IFCT'S DEVELOPMENTAL IMPACT AND ROLE
6.01      Overall Impact:  IFCT remains the only specialized long-term invest-
ment financing institution in Thailand. Roughly 80% of its commitments are
channelled to the manufacturing sector and, since 1970, increasingly to medium-
large plants oriented toward export production. Its annual lending volume
(disbursements) which, prior to 1973, represented a very small proportion of
total private sector investment in manufacturing (averaging 2.2% between
1970-73) nearly doubled to an average 4.1% in FY74 and FY75. With disburse-
ments likely to increase substantial:Ly in the future, as a result of much
higher recent commitment levels, this share is expected to rise to around 6%
in FY76-77. However, because IFCT's financing covered a relatively small
proportion of total project cost, its influence was exerted over a larger
portion of total private investment in manufacturing (estimated at around 25%)
especially between FY74-75. Somewhat: paradoxically, IFCT's lending operations
have been rising while overall investment levels have been falling. To a
large extent this reflects IFCT's willingness to take calculated risks in the
interests of medium and long-term development at a time when other financial
institutions are retrenching and approaching investments with a cautious
wait-and-see attitude in a climate of general uncertainty over the future.
6.02      The 95 project loans approved by IFCT in FY74 and FY75 (which
account for over half its cumulative operations since 1960) involved a total
investment of Bt. 6.4 billion. On completion, these projects are expected to
generate about 24,500 additional jobs 1/ resulting in an incremental annual
payroll of Bt. 430 million. In terms of output these projects are expected
to result in additional annual sales of Bt. 13.7 billion and incremental
value-added of Bt. 2.54 billion; they are also expected to result in net
annual foreign exchange earnings/savings of nearly Bt. 1 billion.
6.03      Efficiency of Investments:  Economic rates of return were calculated
(ex ante) for 45 of the 95 projects financed during FY74-75; they varied from
13% to 80%. Financial rates of return generally ranged between 12-42%. The
distribution of internal economic and financial rates of return for projects
financed by IFCT during FY74 and FY75 are shown in the table below:
1/   By comparison the annual rate of employment creation in the manufacturing
sector is expected to be around 21,000 jobs per year. IFCT's projects on
average take about 2 years to complete.



- 19 -
Distribution of Rates of Return on IFCT's Projects
1974           1975
Rates of Return                      ERR /1   FRR /2   ERR /1    FRR /2
Below 10%                              -          -  
10%-19%                                2         11       6          27
20%-39%                                9         28      21          26
40% or over                            2          2       5           1
Total No. of Projects            13        41       32          54
/1  I1CT calculates economic rates of return only for projects in
which IFCT's sub-loan exceeds Bt. 8 million or the total project
cost exceeds Bt. 30 million.
/2   Financial rates of return are calculated for all projects and are
generally understated.
The rates of return calculated for these projects were based on best possible
estimates at the time of sub-project appraisal by IFCT. These estimates are
generally in line with ex post calculations carried out for a limited sample
of projects at the time of appraisal of the last Bank loan to IFCT.
6.04      Resource Allocation:  In terms of ensuring, to the extent possi-
ble, the allocation of resources to sound productive investments through its
appraisal process, the figures above suggest that IFCT is performing cre-
ditably. Its financing in FY74-75 has resulted in some concentration
(to varying degrees) of investment both geographically (in Bangkok and
the Central Region) and industrially (in food processing, textiles,
chemicals and non-metallic minerals). By industry branch such concentra-
tion, however, has been generally in accord with the investment priori-
ties of the BOI. In some instances IFCT has played a significant role in
the planned restructuring of an industry (e.g. tapioca). IFCT has also
been venturesome in the financing of projects which result in the intro-
duction of new product lines and technology. The continued concentration
of investment in the Central Region is indicative of IFCT's inability to
singlehandedly redress the regional investment imbalance. Moreover the
concentration of nearly all IFCT's large loans for projects in the Bangkok
area tends to distort the picture somewhat. Adjusting for such loans, a
discernible shift of investment to other regions becomes apparent; however,
the process of achieving significant changes in this direction is likely
to remain a long and slow one.
6.05      Long-Term Resource Mobilization:  Between FY74-75 IFCT was suc-
cessful in mobilizing nearly US$73 million from various foreign bilateral
and multilateral sources viz. the Bank, ADB, KfW and the Japanese EXIM Bank.
To the extent that such resources represent incremental financial inflows,
replace shorter-term and more expensive suppliers' credits and encourage
sub-borrowers to procure equipment on an internationally competitive basis,



- 20 -
IFCT's success at mobilizing such resources yields a substantial economic
benefit to the country. Under present circumstances it would be unrealistic
to expect IFCT to diversify its sources of financing beyond the bilateral
and multilateral sources it now taps. IFCT is not yet ready to approach
foreign commercial markets for long-term funds. Nonetheless it should begin
to prepare for such a possibility and consider a commercial foreign borrowing
(a small consortium loan or a bond issue) for around FY78. IFCT's limited
efforts at raising domestic resources through its share capital and debenture
issues have also been quite successful. Nonetheless, they have so far been
restricted to "secondary mobilizati,on" (i.e. raising resources from other
financial institutions and not directly from private savers), borrowings
from the Government and the Bank of Thailand. Its ability to raise funds
directly from private savers has been constrained by: a policy regime which
favors savings in commercial bank deposits; artificially depressed lending
rates; an undeveloped market for long-term bonds; and its inability to compete
with other financial institutions in paying out the very high dividends which
the local market has come to expect. With the recent and proposed increases
in its interest rate, one constrainlt to mobilizing resources directly will be
lowered. IFCT also hopes to tap the market directly for 45% of its next
equity issue. As the capital market: develops it should become increasingly
possible for IFCT to issue instruments with a medium-term maturity at rates
acceptable to the market.
6.06      Capital Market Development:  In 1974 and 1975 IFCT has expended
considerable effort in assisting the Government with laumching the new
Securities Exchange of Thailand. IFCT's General Manager is also Chairman
of the Exchange. IFCT is also about to establish a mutual fund company
which will provide the intermediate instrument to encourage participation
by the small investor in the securities market. IFCT will be the single
largest shareholder in the Mutual Fund Co. owning 29% of the paid-in capital
(Bt. 20 million, authorized capital Bt. 40 million) with the Ministry of
Finance taking up a 25% share and the Government Savings Bank a further 20%.
In establishing the mutual fund IFCT has been successful in persuading the
Government to release to the new company shares held by the Government in
private and public corporations valued at about Bt. 400 million and a further
Bt.100 million in the form of short-term notes and debentures. In addition
IFCT has actively approached several well established private companies to go
public and sell their shares to the Mutual Fund Co. The replies received so
far have been encouraging.
6.07      Promotional Efforts:  Through FY74-76 IFCT has continued stepping
up its promotional efforts with: (i) a continuation of its program of in-
dustry studies; (ii) its efforts to encourage private entrepreneurs to estab-
lish pioneer industries on a joint-venture basis with foreign partners; (iii)
direct industrial promotion - IFCT has been playing a lead role both as a pro-
vider of technical assistance and as a representative of domestic investors
in establishing joint ventures in the palm oil, sericulture, castor oil and
rock salt industries; (iv) the estabLishment of three branch offices; (v)
regional seminars at which interested investors and traders are invited to
discuss specific investment opportunities to be taken up by IFCT; and (vi) the
establishment of a special project promotion unit at the head office. These
activities have yielded tangible results by way of actual investments made.



- 21 -
As Annex 7, paragraph 13 indicates IFCT has financed a number of joint ventures
brought about through its intervention. The palm oil project on which IFCT
has spent several man-years of effort is about to come to fruition. Further-
more the Haat Yai branch has identified 19 project opportunities in two months,
six of which were being actively screened in February 1976. IFCT's regional
seminars have also attracted wide interest and are likely to lead to specific
projects being financed in the next year or two. In addition to these activi-
ties IFCT is playing the lead role in launching a study on small industries in
Thailand aimed at developing a "bankable" project package (paragraph 3.03).
Moreover it has also actively begun strengthening its links with various
business associations and chambers of commerce, with the commercial banking
sector and with other government agencies (in particular, BOI, NESDB and BOT)
in order to play a more effective role in the planning and development of
projects in their early stages.
6.08      IFCT's Development Strategy:  At the time of the last Bank loan,
IFCT proposed to pursue a five-point development strategy which would aim
at: (i) financing smaller 1/ riskier projects in the Bangkok area which could
not attract commercial bank interest; (ii) financing a few large and complex
projects which required substantial promotional inputs; (iii) promoting proj-
ects, particularly agro-industrial projects, in lesser developed regions;
(iv) increasing its level of equity investments; and (v) competing more
aggressively with commercial banks. Performance during FY74-75 in achiev-
ing these various objectives has, on balance, been creditable. The follow-
ing table indicates the extent to which IFCT was successful in achieving its
first objective.
1974     1975      Total
Projects approved in Greater Bangkok                         18        28        46
of which:  total cost under Bt. 40 million                  15        14        29
of which:  new projects under Bt. 40 million                 9         6        15
expansion projects under Bt. 40 million          6         8        14
Expansions of under Bt. 40 million by first time clients 5              7         12
As shown above 63% of the projects approved in the Bangkok area in FY74-75
had a total cost of less than Bt. 40 million (the cut-off point for "small"
as used for these purposes). Of these there was a roughly even split be-
tween new and expansion projects, over 85% of the latter being undertaken
by first-time clients of IFCT. It is difficult to judge the number of
these cases which could have obtained long-term or roll-over finance from
other sources except to note that although commercial banks have been gen-
erally liquid from late 1974 onwards their lending has become considerably
more conservative and even more collateral-based than in the past. Since
the loan/collateral ratios of all these projects is fairly high it is
likely that they would not have been able to secure finance from other
sources.
1/   For the purposes of the strategy statement "smaller" projects were
defined as those with a total cost of Bt. 40 million or less.



- 22 -
6.09      Between 1974-75 IFCT has financed 11 very large projects with a
total cost of over Bt. 200 million (US$10 million). However, all these
projects have been undertaken by large "blue chip" firms (seven of which
have extensive foreign participation) and had already been well planned
so that when IFCT stepped in no major promotional inputs were required.
The only large project (pulp and paLper) to which IFCT has devoted a great
deal of time and effort in promoting has not, as yet, materialized. On
the third objective, regional dispersal, IFCT had in FY74-75 committed
funds totalling Bt. 130.5 million to 21 projects outside the Central Re-
gion. Considering that it had financed only 28 projects for Bt. 156 mil-
lion in the preceding fourteen year period (1960-73) outside the Central
Region, the level of lending achieved in the past two years is noteworthy.
In relative terms, however, the increase has not resulted in a discernible
shift in proportions lent to other regions largely because of the increas-
ing predominance of large loans which IFCT has approved since 1973. In
stepping up its level of equity investments IFCT was quite successful
in 1975 with four new investments totalling Bt. 24.6 million, thereby
doubling the number of participations and increasing the amount of invest-
ment by two and a half times. Finally, if its increased lending vol-
ume in a declining investment environment is an indicator, IFCT can be
assumed to have succeeded in competing more aggressively with commer-
cial banks for its business especiaLly in 1975 when bank rates climbed
down and banks were generally liquid. However a strategy of aggressive
competition with the banks is a questionable one. To the extent that
banks can service established clients they should continue to do so,
and if possible, on a long-term bas.is. IFCT's role, being essentially
a developmental one, should complement that of the banks rather than
seek to substitute for it. With thiis last exception IFCT should continue
to pursue the strategic objectives enunciated previously. One strategic
objective not included in its statement is the development of the Thai
capital market toward which IFCT has made a significant contribution
(paragraph 6.06).
VII. IFCT's RESOURCE POSITION AND PROSPECTS
7.01      Resource Position:  Details of IFCT's resources are provided in
Annex 10 and its resources position as of December 31, 1975 shown in Annex
10, Table 1. IFCT's approval, commitment and disbursement rates in FY74-
75 have outpaced all previous expectations and its domestic resources fell
short of undisbursed commitments by about Bt. 63.5 million at the end of
FY75. The recent Bt. 150 million delbenture issue which was fully sub-
scribed in January 1976 should cover such commitments and leave a balance
of about Bt. 40 million for further domestic currency approvals (beyond
uncommitted loans already approved). During the year IFCT expects to
raise a further Bt. 100 million through an increase in its share capital.
These funds would suffice to meet IFCT's expected level of domestic cur-
rency loan approvals through 1976. Hlowever, in the latter part of the
year IFCT will, almost certainly, have to make arrangements for further



- 23 -
domestic borrowings. It plans to make a debenture issue of Bt. 150-200 mil-
lion in 1977 which will need to be augmented by way of extended rediscount
facilities from the Bank of Thailand and/or loans from the Government Savings
Bank to cover domestic lending operations through 1977. By 1978 IFCT should
aim at being in a position to approach the public market directly for borrow-
ings of between Bt. 100-150 million annually without relying exclusively on
other financial institutions.
7.02      On the foreign resources side IFCT had resources totalling Bt. 569
million available for further approvals of which tied funds represented nearly
60%. Untied funds available for further approvals amounted to Bt. 216 million
(US$10.8 million) and for commitments Bt. 394 million (or US$19.7 million).
Against these available resources IFCT had an immediate pipeline of projects
requiring untied funds amounting to around Bt. 200 million. On an approval
basis IFCT had virtually exhausted its available untied funds by around June
1976 (on a commitment basis by around September-October 1976). On the basis
of its operational projections, the proposed Bank loan of US$25 million
(Bt. 500 million) should last IFCT until around March 1978 on an approval
basis (or three to six months beyond on a commitment basis). The Government
and IFCT have requested a limitation on the size of the Bank loan to cover
IFCT's approval requirements for a 15-18 month period. ADB has expressed its
willingness to augment IFCT's untied foreign resources when Bank funds are
exhausted. The slightly contracted financing horizon also allows IFCT a
reasonable margin of error if projected levels of operations do not material-
ize under the present uncertain circumstances. IFCT's tied resources, of
which it had over Bt. 352 million available for further approvals at end FY75
should suffice until around the end of 1977.
7.03      Operational Projections and Prospects:  IFCT's operational projec-
tions and business prospects are analyzed in Annex 11. Although IFCT's
operations in FY74 and FY75 increased in the face of a declining investment
trend, the sharp dip in investment decisions taken in FY74-75 is expected
to be reflected in IFCT's approvals for FY76-77. However, the abatement
of exaggerated fears on the part of investors and the restoration of a stable
government with an enhanced ability to proceed with the pressing task of
development is expected to result in a pick-up in investment from late FY76
onwards. Accordingly, IFCT has projected total approvals of Bt. 770 million
for FY76 (including Bt. 40 million for equity investments) which represents an
overall decline of 6% (7% for loans) from FY75 levels. Approvals are then
expected to pick up by 12% in FY77 to Bt. 865 million and, more rapidly, by
20% in FY78 and beyond. Commitment levels are expected to parallel approval
levels with a lag of around three to six months. IFCT's operational projec-
tions are generally in line with overall business expectations and, providing
broader assumptions about the environment hold good, they should be achievable.
7.04      Financial Projections and Prospects.  On the basis of its opera-
tional projections and assuming an increase in its interest rates to 12.5%
IFCT's portfolio and income prospects appear to be bright. Spurred largely
by growth in its long-term loan assets, total assets are expected to in-
crease by 54% in 1976 to Bt. 2.27 billion and at an average annual rate
of nearly 15% thereafter to Bt. 4.48 billion in 1980. No major structural



- 24 -
change in asset composition is expected over that time with the loan port-
folio (net of provisions) accounting for the bulk of the asset base (around
85%) except in those years when receipts from debentures or equity invest-
ments toward the end of a financial year, placed on deposit, may temporarily
boost short-term assets. To finance this increase, long-term debt outstand-
ing is expected to climb by 53% in 1976 to Bt. 1.76 billion and by 18% annually
thereafter to Bt. 3.42 billion in 1980. IFCT expects to increase its share
capital by Bt. 100 million in 1976; over the remainder of the projection
period increases in net worth will be attributable entirely to a reserves
build-up. Reserves are expected to grow by 31% in 1976 to Bt. 135.3 million
and by a much higher rate averaging 42% annually between 1977-80 to Bt. 544.1
million. In 1980 reserves are expected to account for 68.5% of net worth
vs. 40.1% in 1975. The projected rate of reserves build-up, attributable
to income performance, appears to be somewhat high. As a result of the
increase in reserves the long-term debt/equity ratio is expected to decline
to 4.4:1 in 1980 after rising to a peak of 5:1 in 1977. The liquidity posi-
tion is expected to remain comfortable throughout with a high of 2.1:1 in
1976 (caused by the increase in short-term holdings due to receipts from
the equity increase) and a low of 1.4:1 in 1977.
7.05      The combination of an increased portfolio and an increased in-
terest rate will have a pronounced impact on income growth in absolute
(but not relative) terms. Net income is expected to grow by 27% to
Bt. 48.9 million in 1976 and by 57% to Bt. 77.5 million in 1977 when
the impact of increased interest rates on a sizeable part of the portfo-
lio is felt, thereafter its growtlh rate is expected to decline to 13.5%
in 1980 when net income is expected to be Bt. 161.3 million. Net income
as a percentage of average total assets however is expected to decline in
1976 (from 3% to 2.6%) and then rise gradually to 3.8% in 1980. The most
notable trend in the projections iis the expectation of a steady decline in
administrative expenses 1/ as a percentage of average total portfolio from
its historical average of 1.5% to 0.9% by 1980. Expected levels of profita-
bility would result in an increase of the return to equity from 15.3% in
1976 to 22.3% in 1980. IFCT is expected to raise its dividend rate by 0.5%
annually from 10% in 1975 to 12% in 1979 in an effort to make its shares
attractive to the market. A reasonably sound cash flow position is ex-
pected to be maintained throughout with the debt service coverage ratio
expected to remain at well above 1.6.
VIII. JUSTIFICATION FOIR THE LOAN AND ITS MAIN FEATURES
8.01      Justification:  IFCT is rapidly developing into a sound institution
which applies rational project selection policies and procedures. Its manage-
ment and staff are generally of good calibre. As a private institution with
1/   The present level of IFCT's administrative expenses is comparatively
high and, with the full disbursement of loans already committed, is
expected to decline by 1977.



- 25 -
public connections it plays a unique role in encouraging private sector
investment in line with the overall industrial development priorities of the
government. It is pursuing a sound development strategy and has had more than
moderate success in taking the first steps toward achieving fairly difficult
objectives. IFCT has excellent rapport with the government and is developing
better relationships with the financial and industrial communities. In an
environment not favorably inclined towards accepting the discipline of thorough
project appraisal and supervision, IFCT continues to do an effective job of
getting clients to accept such discipline although the task has proven to be
strenuous and progress has been gradual. Over the past two years, IFCT has
begun to come into its own; it has played a leading role in the development of
the securities market and its lending and equity investment operations have
increased beyond reasonable expectations. These achievements notwithstanding,
IFCT is looking toward continually upgrading the quality of its staff, its
work and toward the further diversification of its activities, particularly
in encouraging small industry development, with continued support and assis-
tance from the World Bank Group. The availability of Bank resources and
support for IFCT have, in the past, been materially significant to its increas-
ing stature and its institutional growth. Its achievements notwithstanding,
the continually developing Thai economy will make increasing demands on IFCT's
capabilities and resources and will render it dependent on multilateral
sources of finance for some time to come. The proposed loan would enable
IFCT to continue on the successful course now being followed.
8.02      Rates of Return on Projects Financed:  As indicated in paragraph
6.03, internal economic rates of return on IFCT financed projects have var-
ied between 12% and 80% with the heaviest concentration around 30%. Internal
financial rates of return have ranged between 12% to 42% with the bulk of the
projects having returns of around 25%. The last Bank loan to IFCT (Loan No.
992-TH) for US$12 million has been utilized in a satisfactory manner, 1/ hav-
ing gone toward financing 18 diverse projects with sub-loans varying in size
from US$49,000 to US$2.7 million. Economic rates of return, calculated for
13 of these projects, have ranged between 15% to 80% with a weighted average
economic rate of return of 46%. Financial rates of return for all.18 proj-
ects ranged from 14% to 41% with a weighted average rate of return of 19%.
These rates of return are satisfactory. While the specific projects to be
financed under the proposed loan have not been identified it is expected
that these projects will yield similar returns to those financed under the
previous loan.
1/   The manner in which Loan No. 992-TH was utilized is analyzed in detail
in Annex 7, paragraph 12 and Annex 7, Table 4. Since February 29, 1976
four additional sub-loans have been authorized for withdrawal under the
loan account for a total of US$906,000 leaving an uncommitted balance
of US$527,000 in the account as of July 31, 1976. The financial and
economic rates of return on these projects are similar to the other
sub-projects financed under the loan and result in no change in the
weighted average rates of return.



- 26 -
Main Features of the Loan
8.03      Purposes:  The loan would be used to finance direct capital goods
import requirements of eligible industrial agro-industrial, mining, shipping,
tourist and other enterprises, and 65% of the cost of imported goods pur-
chased from domestic suppliers. The loan would also be used to finance the
permanent working capital requirements of eligible sub-projects.
8.04      Borrower:  The loan would be made directly to IFCT and would be
guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand.
8.05      Foreign Exchange Risk:  The foreign exchange risk on currencies
disbursed under the loan would be shared by IFCT and the Government in
accordance with the terms set forth in the "Foreign Exchange Risk Agree-
ment" between IFCT and the Ministry of Finance dated April 26, 1974 (para-
graph 5.07).
8.06      Amortization Schedule:  As is normal for the Bank's DFC projects
the loan would have a flexible amortization schedule which would correspond
roughly with the expected aggregate amortization schedules of the sub-loans
financed under the project. The maximum term of such sub-loans would be
15 years including the grace period. The loan is expected to be committed
over an 18-month period and disbursed over 3 years (Annex 12).
8.07      Free Limits and Sub-Loan Sizes:  A free limit of US$750,000 with
an aggregate free limit of US$10 million is recommended (paragraph 4.12).
On the basis of experience with the previous loan it is expected that about
50% of the number of loans and 752% of the amount committed will require the
Bank's prior approval under the proposed free limits. To ensure that IFCT
continues to on-lend the proceeds of this loan to a reasonably large number
of industrial projects, it is recommended that a sub-loan ceiling of US$3.0
million be established.
8.08      On-Lending Rates:  IFCT would charge sub-borrowers an interest rate
of 12.0% for all its domestic and foreign currency loans. This rate would
be increased to 12.5% before July 1, 1977. As indicated in paragraph 3.12,
this would result in sub-borrowers paying a real rate of around 6% to 6.5%.
Taking into account the mandatory 1.25% to be provided by IFCT against pro-
visions for foreign exchange risk, the spread for IFCT on the proposed loan
will be 1.85%. During negotiations IFCT undertook to review its lending
rates on a regular basis and, in consultation with the Bank, to make per-
iodic changes to reflect its borrowing costs and ensure an adequate level
of profitability.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
9.01      At negotiations for the proposed loan agreement was reached with
IFCT on the following matters:



- 27 -
(a) an increase in IFCT's lending rate to 12.5% before
July 1, 1977 (paragraph 3.12);
(b) appointment of the Deputy General Manager by
September 30, 1976 (paragraph 4.04);
(c) an individual sub-loan free limit of US$750,000
and an aggregate free limit of US$10 million (para-
graph 4.12);
(d) maintenance of the debt/equity limit at 6:1 (para-
graph 5.05);
(e) a sub-loan size limit of US$3.0 million (paragraph
8.07).






ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
The Economy
1.        An Economic Report on Thailand (No. 924-TH) was issued on November 14,
1975. It covers major developments over the two-year preceding period and pro-
vides a detailed analysis of Thailand's present economic position and prospects
for the future. A synoptic view of relevant economic characteristics and devel-
opments is provided below.
2.        Growth Performance.  According to the National Economic and Social
Development Board's (NESDB's) preliminary estimates the economy registered
real growth of 6.4% in 1975 1/ compared to 3.2% in 1974. While the growth
rate was below that of 1973, when an export-led boom resulted in real GDP
growth of 10%, it was a distinct improvement over the substantial economic
slowdown in 1974 caused by poor weather, deterioration in the external sec-
tor, and a weakening of domestic demand. Improved weather conditions, the
abatement of inflation, quiescence on the labor front and the absorption of
increased energy costs all contributed to aiding recovery in agricultural and
industrial production. Agricultural output rose by 6.6% and industrial output
by 6.1% in real terms during 1975 compared with growth rates of 3.2% and 2.5%
respectively in 1974. There is little doubt, however, that industrial recovery
might have been more rapid were it not for heightened political uncertainty on
the domestic scene and by the impact on investment activity (foreign and
domestic) of developments in Indo-China. Increased government expenditures
also had a salutary impact on recovery although not to the extent expected.
The services sector registered growth of 9.2% while the wholesale and retail
trade sector registered a decline of 1.7% in real terms. Per capita GNP
increased by 6.1% in current terms from Bt. 6,364 to Bt. 6,754 (or about
US$340) registering only a nominal increase in real terms.
3.        Balance of Payments.  Although Thailand's imports doubled between
1972-74 as a result of escalating capital goods costs and a much higher energy
bill, increased export earnings and capital flows generated sufficient foreign
exchange to cover imports and retain a sound reserves position (six months
1/   9.5% at current market prices.  GDP was estimated at about Bt. 296
billion in current prices.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
imports). In 1975, however, the BOP situation worsened; there was a substan-
tial deterioration in the trade balance with the rapid decline in the prices 1/
of agricultural commodities coupled with stagnation in the volume of these
exports as a result of poor weather conditions in 1974 and declining world
demand (especially for rice) in 1975. Manufactured exports also performed
poorly owing to depressed international market conditions. Total exports for
the first nine months of 1975 amounted to Bt. 35.5 billion or 8% lower than
for the same period in 1974. Although an uncertain investment climate damp-
ened the demand for imports, 2/ prices kept rising albeit quite slowly (about
6% over 1974 levels). The net result, for the first three quarters, was a
trade deficit of Bt. 12.6 billion (US$0.63 billion) which was 34% higher
than for the same period in 1974. Since net receipts from services and
transfers also dropped the current- account deficit increased nearly fivefold
to Bt. 5.3 billion. With net capiLtal inflows (Bt. 4.1 billion, 18% lower
than 1974) over the same period being insufficient to cover the current
account deficit Thailand will, in 1975, have its first overall BOP deficit
(and a concommitant decline in reserves of over US$100 million) in four
years.
4.        Prices and Inflation.  ALfter a decade of price stability (with in-
flation averaging about 2% annually) Thailand experienced rapid inflation
between 1972-74 with the increase in the consumer price index reaching a peak
of 24% for 1974. However, the combined influence of export price declines,
moderation of imported inflation, tightening of domestic credit, the appear-
ance of excess capacity in several industries and a rapid rate of inventory
build-up (now gradually being cleared) has resulted in a sharp decline in the
rate of inflation in 1975. The wholesale price index rose by less than 1%
over the first half of 1975 and its rise is not expected to exceed 4% for the
whole year. The consumer price index rise is also expected to be limited to
between 5-6% 3/. Long-term price inflation of about 4% annually over the
Fourth Plan Period has been forecast by the NESDB (the Bank's estimates,
however, range between 6-7%).
5.        Investment Activity.  Th,e surge in investment activity, following
an 18-month boom from late 1972 to early 1974, now shows signs of petering
out. Business prospects which caused private investment to increase by 19%
1/   In mid-1975 Thailand's terms of trade index had dropped to below the
lows recorded at the time of the last balance of payments crisis in
1971-72.
2/   Total imports for the 9-months ending September 30, 1975 were Bt. 48.1
billion i.e. 0.6% above the level recorded for the same period in the
previous year.
3/   Between 1965-70 the Consumer Price Index rose from 100.4 to 113.5 at
an average rate of about 2% annually. Although at the end of 1972
it stood at 119.6 it rose very rapidy on 1973 and 1974 reaching 171.7
for the latter year. Its rate of increase moderated in 1975 averaging
180.1 for the first 10 months of the year.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
in real terms in 1973 and by a further 17% in 1974 are perceived by investors
to have dimmed. A fluid political situation has undermined government's
ability to formulate and provide clear policy guidance especially in the
industrial sector. Apparent indecision on the part of the authorities has
served to exacerbate the negative influences exerted on investment (espe-
cially foreign investment) by recent events in Indo-China. Consequently,
despite the general improvement in labor relations and the restoration of
relative price stability private sector investment in 1975 actually
declined by about 2% in real terms. 1/ Public sector capital formation,
however, increased by 42% as the Government pursued an expansionary budget
policy by increasing expenditures for construction and by its Bt. 2.5
billion Tambon council financing scheme which involved a large number of
small local civil works projects. The increase in public sector investment
seems higher than it actually was, the explanation being that in 1974 the
Government suspended several projects due to record increases in the prices
of construction materials. These contracts were renegotiated in 1975 and
the projects resumed.
6.        The impressions conveyed by the gross fixed capital formation
statistics are reinforced by the sharp dip in the level of applications to
the Board of Investments (BOI) as the table below shows. Since there is a
lag between applications to the BOI and the actual expenditures on invest-
ment (reflected in GFCF), the level of applications also provides a rough
indicator of trends in the private portion of GFCF over the next two years,
particularly in machinery and equipment.
(Amounts in Baht Billions)
1973      1974       1975
No. of applications                    552        226        111
No. of applications approved           325        176         83
Registered capital of firms /1           5.52       2.75       0.59
Total investment /1                     26.23       9.22       1.95
Thai Employment-generated (000's)    115.4         38.9       13.0
/1   For approved applications.
1/   Gross capital formation in machinery and equipment (over 90% of which
is accounted for by the private sector and is a good proxy indicator for
industrial investment) declined by 2.6% in real terms in 1975 compared
to a growth rate of 16.5% in 1974. This was the first time in four years
that capital formation in machinery and equipment had declined. Private
investment in machinery and equipment declined by over 5% while public
investment grew by 20%.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
7.        Fiscal and Monetary Developments.  Following the turnaround in the
economic climate government's fiscal and monetary policy was switched from
combatting inflationary pressures in 1974 to stimulating economic recovery
in 1975. In FY74 the Government introduced a fairly tight budget of Bt. 48
billion which represented a decrease, in real terms, over Government spend-
ing in the preceding year. On the other hand the combined influence of
domestic inflation, higher import prices (and, as a result, higher collec-
tions from duties), increased export tax receipts (due to soaring interna-
tional commodity prices), and higher tax rates introduced in 1973 resulted
in a substantial increase in public revenues. The restraint on expenditure
coupled with an unexpectedly sharp increase in revenues swung the public
sector's budgetary position from a deficit of Bt. 5.7 billion in 1973 to a
surplus of Bt. 2.0 billion in 1974 and allowed the public sector's cash
balances to rise by over Bt. 5 bilLion. In FY75 the situation was reversed;
expenditures were raised by 20% to Bt. 50.5 billion while revenues dropped
due to a decline in the volume of imports, sharp drops in export prices and
the downward adjustments of import, excise and business tax rates which were
made in 1974 to mitigate cost push inflationary pressures. In FY75 the
Treasury incurred a budgetary deficit of Bt. 5.4 billion.
8.         Coupled with a tight budget, a restrictive credit policy was also
adopted by the Bank of Thailand (BOT) in the fall of 1973 to combat inflation;
these restrictions were strengthened in 1974 with increases of: 1% in commer-
cial banks' required reserves (fronm 7% to 8%); 1% in the BOT-lending rate;
and 1% in the deposit rate ceilings. These restrictions forced an upward
movement in commercial bank lending rates. Nonetheless private credit demand
remained strong through September 1974 with credit to the private sector grow-
ing by 44% vs 34% in the preceding year. The resources for financing such
credit came from increased commercial bank borrowings from BOT, from short-
term borrowings abroad and from an increase in the growth of deposits. The
fiscal operations of the Treasury, however, offset the private sector's
increased appetite for funds with the deflationary budget reducing the bank-
ing system's net credit to the Government by Bt. 5 billion thus slowing the
rate of monetary expansion to 4% in mid-1974 from 23% in late 1973. With the
BOP deficit emerging in late 1974 private credit suddenly became very tight
as the ratio of commercial banks' liquid assets to deposits dropped from 33%
to 23%, the lowest level ever reached. With the economy taking a recession-
ary turn in late 1974 BOT began to relax credit policies in concert with the
reflationary budget. The required reserve ratio for commercial banks was
reduced again to 7%, and generous rediscounting facilities were made avail-
able to hard-hit industries (particularly textiles). In April 1975 BOT
reduced its own basic loan rate and commercial banks followed suit. However,
the deceleration in inflation and the deteriorating investment climate slowed
private credit demand considerably; this coupled with a decline in external
reserves sharply curtailed monetary expansion. Between December 1974 and
October 1975 there was a decline of 1.5% in total money supply.
9.        Economic Prospects.  Assuming that the political situation stabil-
izes and that the government elected in April 1976 is in a better position



ANNEX 1
Page 5
than its predecessor to pursue and implement sound policies, it is likely
that the recovery begun in 1975 will be sustained through 1976. This pros-
pect would be further supported by recovery of the industrialized econo-
mies which comprise the principal markets for Thailand's exports. On the
basis of these assumptions NESDB has projected real GDP growth of 7.6% for
1976, which would bring the annual average growth for the Third Plan up
to 6.4% against a target of 7.0%. NESDB's projections, however, assume
a rather high growth rate for the manufacturing sector (16.7%) and a growth
rate of less than 1% for the agricultural sector. Given the level of inven-
tories piled up by several industries at the end of 1975 the projected growth
rate for manufacturing seems optimistic (the prevalence of slack capacity
notwithstanding). On the other hand, although currently depressed prices
of agricultural commodities may affect production in 1976, the Government's
price support programs for paddy and sugar are expected to offset to some
degree their negative impact and agricultural output may grow by more than 1%.
The net effect might be a slighty lower growth rate (of around 7%) than
projected. To achieve growth the Government has announced a highly expan-
sionary FY76 budget of Bt. 62.65 billion, along with measures to ensure the
more effective implementation of government's planned capital outlays. Al-
though this may revive inflationary pressures the Government aims to restrain
inflation at a level of 6% for 1976 while expanding employment opportunities
and achieving a better urban-rural distribution of income through its expendi-
ture program.
10.       Although a more favorable investment climate is expected to emerge,
as the psychological fears caused by events in Indo-China gradually recede,
it is unlikely that there will be any revival in private capital formation
during 1976. There is a real possibility of a continued real decline in
private investment. Several investment decisions have been deferred until
after the April elections; it will be some time until any firm decisions
taken thereafter are implemented. The effects of a prolonged hiatus in
investment will not be felt until the medium term when it could significantly
restrain output growth. NESDB expects a sharp increase in fixed capital
formation in 1977 when domestic political uncertainties are reduced and
international economic conditions are favorable.
11.       The Government's budget and its policy measures follow broadly
the directions mapped out in the Bank's recent economic report. The urgency
of dealing with the employment and distributional problems has now impressed
the Government as have the constraints on achieving desirable objectives
through better directed growth. A major constraint to growth could be the
balance-of-payments. With no prospect for price increases in Thailand's
major commodity exports and the higher demand for imports, which growth at
projected levels is certain to generate, the BOP deficit is expected to be
larger in 1976. The Bank's economic report expects this situation to pre-
vail for the remainder of the decade leading to a rising external resource
gap. As that report suggests, apart from private capital inflows and small
amounts of commercial borrowings, the government aims to attract increased
commitments of official bilateral and multilateral loan assistance and is
taking steps to improve its project preparation capability to this end.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Industry and Manufacturing in Thailand
1.        Overall Performance.  In 1975 the industrial sector (comprising
mining, manufacturing and construction) accounted for nearly 26% of GDP (at
1962 constant prices) vs 24% in 1974. Industry constituted the second
largest sector of economic activity after agriculture (which accounted for
27.5% of GDP). Output in the industrial sector recovered slowly at a rate
of 6.1% in 1975, still short of its average annual growth rate of over 10%
prior to 1974; in real terms, mining output declined by 7% during the year
while in construction it rose by 17%. The manufacturing sector, which
accounted for nearly 79% of industrial output, expanded at an average rate
of 14% in 1970-73, a slightly higher rate than the 12% average between 1964-
1969. The sector's role in the economy has grown increasingly prominent with
its contribution to GDP having increased from 11.6% in 1960 to 20.2% in 1975.
The onset of recessionary influences in 1974 reduced manufacturing output
growth to 2.5%. In 1975 the growth rate picked up to 6% with output perform-
ance within the sector being mixed. Declines were registered in certain food
processing industries, and in the paper, rubber products, metal products and
electrical goods industries. These declines were more than offset by in-
creased production in the sugar, beer, tobacco, textiles, cement, and petroleun
industries. However, a large part of the increased output, particularly in
sugar and textiles went toward the building up of inventories.
Characteristics of the Manufacturin; Sector
2.        Establishments and Value-Added.  Reliable data on establishments
in the Thai manufacturing sector and their key characteristics are not avail-
able. 1/ According to a 1968 industrial census, there were approximately
45,000 manufacturing establishments. Government estimates suggest that by
1973 these had increased to over 66,000 of which just about 35,000 were
"registered."  The following table indicates the rough distribution of
registered establishments and value-added between three broad economic clas-
sifications from data available for 1973.
1/   A limited census was undertaken in 1971 the results of which have just
become available. The census which attempted to cover only establish-
ments employing 10 or more workers covered 3,005 establishments (of
which 727 had fewer than 10 wor,kers) whose total value-added amounted
to Bt. 7.8 billion, or less than 36% of the total value-added for the
sector recorded in that year.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Table A: Establishments and Value-Added in Manufacturing - 1973 1/
Type of Industry                    Establishments   Value-Added (Bt. Billion)
No.     %           Amount        _
Consumer Goods                      27,582   78.7           19.2       52.4
Intermediate Goods                   4,974   14.2           13.2       36.1
Capital Goods                        2,495    7.1            4.2        11.5
Total                         35,051  100.0           36.6       100.0
3.        Since 1968, value-added in the manufacturing sector has grown from
Bt. 17.9 billion to Bt. 36.6 billion in 1973 (current prices) 2/  with a
relative shift in its composition. In 1973 consumer-goods industries contri-
buted to 52.4% of value-added vs 62.3% in 1968, intermediate goods industries
to 36.1% vs 29.7%, capital-goods to 11.5% vs 8%. The increase in the share of
intermediate goods was due largely to the backward integration of the textile
industry during that period, the manufacturing of a wider range of chemicals
and chemical products and to the increased refining of petroleum and related
products. The increase in the share of capital goods industries was due
almost entirely to vehicle assembly operations which were established in
Thailand during 1971-73. As shown in the table below, the most prominent
industries (by value-added) in Thailand at the end of 1973 were: food pro-
cessing, beverages and tobacco; textiles and apparel; transport equipment;
and petroleum refining and coal products. Together they accounted for nearly
70% of total value-added in the manufacturing sector, over 74% of the number
of registered establishments and about 56.5% of total manufacturing employ-
ment (paragraph 8 below).
1/   Based on 1973 data on registered establishments of which a special
analysis was undertaken for a recent Bank industrial sector mission.
Value-added data is based on the national income series recorded in the
last Bank economic report and includes value-added by unregistered
enterprises, the distribution of which is not known.
2/   In 1975 manufacturing value-added was estimated to be about Bt. 56
billion in current market prices.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 3: Major Thai Industries at End-1973 1/
Value-Added
(Bt. Billions)      Establishments
Amount     %          No.       %
1.  Food, beverages and tobacco               12.6     34.4      23,927    68.26
2.  Textiles and apparel                       6.6     18.0       1,461      4.17
3.  Transport equipment                        3.4      9.3         625      1.78
4.  Petroleum refining and coal                3.0      8.2          11      0.03
5.  Other industries                          11.0     30.1       9,027    25.75
Total                              36.6    100.0      35,051   100.00
4.        Ownership and Size of Establishments.  The large majority of enter-
prises in Thailand are small and f-amily-owned; nearly 95% employ less than 10
workers and fall in the cottage/home industries category. Of the 3,005 enter-
prises covered by the 1971 Industrial Census only 702, or fewer than 24%,
were limited companies the remaindler being individual proprietorships or
juristic partnerships. However, these 702 limited companies accounted for
68.5% of the total book value of fixed assets of all establishments covered.
On average, in 1970, individual proprietorships had total fixed assets of
Bt. 1.2 million (about US$60,000); partnerships and other associated ownership-
type firms had fixed assets of Bt. 3.0 million (or US$150,000) and limited
companies had fixed assets of Bt. 13.5 million (or US$675,000). Of the total
number of establishments covered by the 1971 Census fewer than 640 (or about
1% of the estimated total) employed more than 50 workers; yet these firms
contributed to over 32% of total value-added in the manufacturing sector.
5.        The concentration of a fairly large share of the manufacturing
sector in very small family-owned units, which do not differentiate between
family and business finances, complicates the task of development financing
in Thailand. These enterprises have generally proven averse to institutional
borrowing, particularly when such borrowing is accompanied by its usual con-
comitants, e.g., the keeping of accurate business records, auditing of
accounts, the analysis that accompanies project evaluation and reporting
requirements for sound project sup(ervision. They often forego expansion
opportunities, borrow from commercial lenders either on the basis of security
or undertake unsecured borrowings at very high rates to avoid borrowing from
lenders "who ask questions."  In view of their record of widespread tax
evasion these establishments are also suspicious of any lending institutions
which require the regular submission of detailed financial statements. When
1/   The same industrial ranking wEas retained in 1974 and 1975 with these
industries contributing relatively the same proportions to manufactur-
ing value-added.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
they do submit to such requirements their statements generally understate
the asset base and income generating capacity of the enterprise. Most small
Thai businesses are resistant to the introduction of modern production and
management techniques and operate at a low level of efficiency. The strong
influence of family ownership also prevents the possibility of rationaliza-
tion and mergers of small inefficient firms into more viable production units.
Nevertheless, the entry of a new generation of Thais into industry, many
educated abroad, and the promotional emphasis placed on industrial invest-
ment by the Government is beginning to result in a gradual transformation of
the sector. Institutional efforts such as those of IFCT and the recently
established investment companies are also having an impact on bringing about
gradual change in traditional attitudes.
6.        Small-Scale Industries.  The paucity of accurate and comprehensive
data on the Thai manufacturing sector makes it difficult to develop a coherent
picture of the small industry-sub-sector, the problems that it confronts and
the opportunities that it promises. The limited statistical reports and
surveys carried out for the Bank's last industrial sector mission suggest
that the small-scale sector, 1/ including home/cottage type production units,
accounted for about: 96.5% of the total number of establishments; 40% of
manufacturing employment; and between 20-25% of total value-added in the
sector. The modern small 2/ and medium 3/ industries (SMI) sector, however,
probably accounts for about: 4-5% of the number of establishments (numbering
roughly between 3,000 to 3,200 in 1975); 10% of manufacturing employment; and
about 15% of value-added. SMI are generally distributed over a very wide
range of industrial activities and are suspected to be the most promising
vehicle for: (i) expanding and decentralizing investment and employment
opportunities at a reasonable capital cost without sacrificing the objec-
tives of productivity, efficiency and competitiveness; and (ii) modernizing,
diversifying and balancing the growth of the industrial and services sectors
in which production is presently concentrated at two extremes. However,
little is known about SMI capital-output, labor-output and capital/labor
ratios, their capacity utilization levels and the age of their plant and
equipment or the financing and assistance problems they confront. Existing
programs for providing financial (through the Small Industries Finance Office
- SIFO) and technical assistance have proven to be ineffectual and are be-
lieved to be geared to no more than scratching the surface of the problem.
1/   Defined in this instance as units employing 50 workers or less and with
total assets of less than Bt. 2 million (US$100,000).
2/   Excluding estalishments with less than 10 workers and total assets of
less than Bt. 100,000 (US$5,000).
3/   Establishments with 51-99 workers and total assets not exceeding Bt. 10
million (US$500,000).



ANNEX 2
Page 5
7.        In view of these factors and the Government's interest in the devel-
opment of small industries IFCT is about to initiate a study at filling the
main gaps in knowledge about the SMI sub-sector. The study will also explore
the pros and cons of various institutional alternatives for delivering finan-
cial and technical assistance services to SMI in the most cost-effective man-
ner. IFCT proposes to fund this eiffort with counterpart funds generated from
previous loans from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and to involve
representatives from the Bank of Thailand, Ministries of Finance and Industry,
the NESDB and from the Faculty of Economics at Thammsasat University.  The
Bank's Regional Mission in Bangkok is keeping track of developments in this
area and is prepared to render any assistance it may be called upon to pro-
vide.  It is expected that the study will constitute the first step toward
the development of a project package suitable for Bank financing within the
next couple of years.
8.        Manufacturing Employment.  In 1973, the manufacturing sector
employed about 852,000 persons, up from 682,000 in 1970 representing an
annual average rate of job creation of 56,300 over the three-year period. 1/
However, with the slowdown in 1974 carrying over into 1975 it was expected
that the manufacturing sector would not provide more than 21,000 new jobs
annually at projected rates of investment. At the end of 1973 the sector
employed just about 4.9% of the total labor force. Large firms (with over
100 workers) accounted for over 20% of total manufacturing employment in
1970 2/ (over 50% in the Bangkok area) while enterprises with fewer than
10 workers accounted for just under 70%. With the average number of new
entrants into the labor market since then being estimated at about 450,000
annually the share of manufacturing employment in total employment is
expected to be maintained at around this level. Although unemployment has
not been a major problem in Thailand up to now, the rapid exhaustion of
new settlement areas to cultivate will sharply curb the capacity of the
agricultural sector to continue absorbing new entrants into the labor force
at the same rates as in the past.  The expected increase in migration to
the urban areas (mainly Bangkok) coupled with existing unemployment there
will necessitate the active exploration of alternatives for employment
generation at a lower cost in the industrial, trade and services sectors. 3/
1/   This growth of almost 25% was generated largely by capacity expansion
in the food, textiles and apparel, rubber products, chemicals, petroleum
products, non-metallic mineral, basic metals and transport equipment
industries.
2/   By 1975 this proportion has probably increased to around 30%.
3/   The Bank's recent economic report highlights employment generation as
a major priority issue in the next few years.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
9.        Between 1968-72 the fixed cost per new job created in organized
industry in Thailand appears to have been about Bt. 150,000 (US$7,500). 1/
The average figure for industries "promoted" by the BOI was, however, much
higher at about Bt. 250,000 (US$12,500) although in 1975 it fell to
Bt. 150,000 (the industry average) reflecting a shift away from capital
intensive investments during the year.
10.       Regional Distribution of Manufacturing.  Manufacturing industries
are heavily concentrated in and around Bangkok. The Central Region (includ-
ing Bangkok) generates about 80% of total value-added in manufacturing, con-
sumes 86% of the nation's electric power and provides 60% of total industrial
employment (in fact, manufacturing accounts for just under half the total em-
ployed labor force in the Bangkok area). The Central Region also accounts
for about 40% of the total number of industrial enterprises and for nearly
80% of the total number of medium and large-scale factories. The remainder
of manufacturing sector investment and output is fairly evenly divided bet-
ween the Southern, Northern and North-Eastern Regions. Between 1969-73 new
industrial investment 2/ grew at a much faster pace in the Central Region
than elsewhere, as did manufacturing output thus exacerbating the concen-
tration problem. This is because Bangkok is the principal market for in-
dustrial products with 10% of the total population and an average level of
money-income per resident about 250% of that in rural areas. It is also the
hub of Thailand's transportation system, the seat of government and the center
for commerce and trade. The growth of inter-industry links, concentration of
trained manpower, and the ready availability of financial and commercial ser-
vices, not to mention sub-contracting facilities, have all served to reinforce
the continued convergence of industrial investment in Bangkok.
11.       Apart from its obvious locational advantage in terms of access to
infrastructure and supporting services, industrial investment in Bangkok has,
at least until 1973, been inadvertently aided by the effects of several
government policies e.g. lower rates for electricity and water supply, the
structure of railway tariffs, the insufficient attention given to the devel-
opment of a second port, and the forced narrowing of wage differentials
which has reduced the incentive for industries to locate in rural areas
1/   Based on written-down values of plant and equipment the value of total
assets (in 1970 prices) per job for the establishments covered by the
1971 Census was nearly Bt. 70,000 (US$3,500). A breakdown between
small and large firms was, unfortunately, not available.
2/   The only industries established outside Bangkok are those based on
natural resources. Rice and saw-milling operations are spread through-
out all regions. Tin smelting, rubber-processing, nonmetallic minerals
processing, sugar, tapioca, flour and wood-based industries are, on the
other hand, located at the sites of resource availability.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(where the labor supply is cheap and plentiful). Confronted with serious
congestion in Bangkok and concerned about future prospects the Government,
in 1973, devised an incentives package to encourage location outside Bangkok
in ten designated "development zones." These measures (and the development
of a second major port in the south) notwithstanding, the Bank's last indus-
trial sector mission was not sanguine about the prospects for significantly
redressing the present imbalance in the near term. It cautioned that "exces-
sive" efforts to decentralize industry too quickly could lead only to slower
industrial development at a higher cost because the requisite infrastructural
facilities do not exist, the prospects of developing substantial "markets"
outside Bangkok are bleak and the present real costs of forcing location
outside Bangkok would further deter the presently none-too-confident investor.
However, it is felt that over the :Longer term the ground being laid for the
development of the port in the soulth coupled with appropriate incentives
would attract export-oriented and "footloose" industries to locate in the
Sattahiep and Songkhla/Haat Yai areas.
12.       Capacity Utilization.  Available data on capacity utilization in
Thai manufacturing does not permit any quantitative assessment of performance
in the sector as a whole. Information collected from firms often overstates
available capacity (to discourage Government from licensing or promoting
new investments) and, at the same time, understates actual production and
sales to avoid any conflicts with respect to tax liabilities. Apart from
the problem of initial overinvestment 1/ in relation to domestic market
needs and temporary under-utilization due to spot input shortages, signif-
icant under-utilization of capacity has not been suspected as a major problem
in Thailand. In 1974, however, recession in major export markets caused
substantial installed capacity to go unutilized, particularly in the textile
and wood-based industries. Most factories in Thailand operate on a single
shift basis with multiple shift operations being confined to industries
where process requirements necessitate continuous operation e.g. sugar,
chemicals, etc., or in export-oriented industries in which there is pressure
to minimize costs e.g. textiles.
13.       Manufactured Exports.  In contrast to manufacturing growth in the
1960's which was based largely on import-substitution, Thai industry in the
1970's has become increasingly export oriented. Between 1970-73 manufactured
exports boomed, growing from US$39 million in 1970 to US$275 million in 1973.
The share of manufactured products in merchandise exports rose from 4.1% in
1970 to 15.1% in 1973 a significant increase considering that total exports
over the same period increased by 120%. The main contributing factors to
1/   With the Government's stop-go policies on investments in particular
industries, entrepreneurs often procure excess capacity in anticipation
of future developments.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
export success over this period, have been a record of relative domestic
price stability, low wages, and the effective devaluation of the Baht (which
is fixed to the US dollar). Much of the export growth between 1970-73 was
attributable to the textiles and apparel industries (which are highly labor-
intensive), and to the precious stones and jewelry industries. Manufactured
exports have been nominally aided by Government incentives introduced in 1970
although the tariff structure continues to introduce a negative bias (para-
graph 18).
14.       The growth in manufactured exports between 1970-73 was spurred
largely by external factors (e.g. strong demand, more rapid price inflation
in importing countries, prodding by overseas buyers and foreign trading
partners in joint ventures, etc.). With the worldwide downturn in 1974, the
rate of manufacturing export growth slowed down. In 1974 the value of manu-
factured exports was US$367 million (representing a small real increase) with
their share in merchandise exports dropping to 14.6%. In the first nine
months of 1975 manufactured exports were running at the same levels as 1974
with increased exports of canned fruits, molasses, jute products, gunny bags
wood products, and miscellaneous manufactures but decreases in textiles
and garments, cement, petroleum products, and precious stones. Textile
exports have begun to pick up at the end of 1975 but are unlikely to recover
to 1973 levels very quickly. Considerable scope remains for further devel-
oping sources of raw materials and intermediate products for export-oriented
processing and manufacturing industries. A more aggressive exporting stance
on the part of Thai manufacturers coupled with support from the Government
by way of improved information services and extension of the export tax
credit should result in better export performance in 1976.
Industrial Promotion Policies and Incentives
15.       Backdrop to Policy Developments.  Industrialization in Thailand has
traditionally been based on liberal support for free private enterprise.
Government policies toward the development of the sector have been confined
to adjustments of such instruments as taxation, tariffs, and the supply of
credit. During the first two plan periods (1962-66 and 1967-71) the Govern-
ment created a number of state-owned enterprises in "nationally vital" indus-
tries. This was done not to exclude the private sector from participation in
these areas but to ensure that necessary investments were not foregone because
the private sector did not perceive adequate rewards for risk. Over the Third
Plan period (1972-76), however, no new Government enterprises were established.
With the present investment climate and growing national sensitivities about
the role of foreign investment it is likely that the Government may adopt a
more direct and active role in the industrial sector especially in mining
ventures, off-shore oil and gas development, and the establishment of a fertil-
izer industry. There are, at present, no licensing barriers to industrial
investments and the Baht is freely convertible. The environment for indus-
trialization is, in many respects, quite different from that of most countries
in the region.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
16.       Industrial Strategy.  Thailand has, so far, lacked a reasonably
well-defined strategy to promote a desirable pattern of industrialization
over the near, medium and long-term. Between 1970-74, frequent modifica-
tions of available policy instruments have been made, in response to imme-
diate pressures, to provide support or relief to particularly strong interest
groups.  The absence of a strategic frame of reference in responding to these
fractionated and conflicting lobbies has often resulted in achieving effects
on investment, output, location and structure of production contrary to those
intended.  Moreover the Government has been confronted with pressing problems
in redressing the imbalance between rural and urban areas and has tended to
give industrialization problems lower priority and treat them with "benign
neglect." 1/
17.       Industrial Protection.  With the domestic market for non-traditional
manufactured import substitutes being fairly limited, manufacturing industries
have, as elsewhere, been established under cover of tariff walls, restrictive
entry regulations and various fiscal incentives. The protective regime devel-
oped under these circumstances has not, however, resulted in a generally
inefficient, high-cost industrial production structure. Several Thai indus-
tries have thrived with initial protection and have now become quite efficient
as their ability to compete in export markets indicates. The present struc-
ture of tariffs is based on the Revenue Code of 1964 to which minor amendments
were made between 1964-70 to promote the establishment of specific industries.
In 1970 a large number of rates were raised to stem the balance of payments
deficit. This general increase was followed by another three-year period
of selective tariff adjustments. In mid-1974 tariff rates on some 306 items
were lowered substantially to ease the pressure on domestic production costs.
The resultant tariff structure is a product of several ad-hoc decisions made
with a short-term perspective almost on a product-by-product basis and does
not represent an instrument shaped for rational industrialization over the
long-term.
18.       To provide a basis for government tariff policy formulation a Bank
sponsored study of industrial protection in Thailand was undertaken. 2/ It
found that the potential effective protection resulting from the tariff
structure and other forms of administrative intervention introduced a heavy
bias in favor of import substitution and against export orientation. Varia-
tions in the rates of protection for some consumer goods, and several inter-
mediate goods were found to be unsupportable by any underlying rationale. The
1/   Under these circumstances the role of institutions such as IFCT in ensur-
ing the financial viability and economic soundness of industrial invest-
ments assumes considerable significance.
2/   The report dated July 1975 is entitled "The Structure of Effective
Protection in Thailand: A Study of Industrial and Trade Policies in the
early 1970's" and was carried out by Prof. Narongchai Akrasanee of
Thammasat University.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
study also found that in several industries (depending on the extent of
internal competition, price controls, etc.) the protection realized was
substantially lower than the potential protection accorded. The tariff
structure together with quantitative restrictions, licensing practices and
price control measures were found to be frequently used instruments, to
which adjustments were made in response to specific short-term pressures,
without reference to a basic policy framework. As a result government's
actions have had unintended effects. The study has therefore recommended
that a major revision of protection policies be considered with: (i) the
introduction of a general system of non-discretionary incentives based on
a revision of tariffs and indirect taxes; and (ii) a detailed discretionary
review only of major projects in nationally important industries. In view
of the uncertain political situation and other pressures on the previous
caretaker government, no action has yet been taken on these measures.
19.       Industrial Promotion and the Board of Investments (BOI).  In addi-
tion to the tariff and protection policies pursued by the Government (para-
graph 13), industrial investment in desired directions is also encouraged
by the provision of fiscal incentives granted by the BOI. 1/ This agency is
empowered to: (i) determine the list of industries to be promoted; (ii) ap-
prove individual projects to which promotion benefits will be granted; and
(iii) decide upon the extent of tax exemptions to be given in each individual
case. The incentives package also includes: guarantees against national-
ization and freedom from competition by a new State enterprise. For foreign
investors it includes permission to own land, repatriate profits freely and
hire expatriate experts. Moreover, it allows full exemption from import
duties and business taxes on imported machinery and equipment as well as
exemption from business taxes on domestic machinery and equipment. 2/ BOI
has the discretion to grant exemption from corporate income taxes for between
3-8 years and can, in any instance, recommend banning or raising tariffs on
competing imports; in such instances BOI can also administer the sales prices
of firms so promoted. In addition, BOI grants special locational incentives
(also based on tax exemptions) to encourage investment in ten designated
development zones outside Bangkok.
1/   Such promotion was provided for by the "Act for the Promotion of
Industries" passed in 1954. However, machinery for its implementation
was created only in 1960 when BOI was established. The Act was amended
in 1962 and major revisions were made again in 1972.
2/   In view of the general suspicion that such incentives also promote
capital intensity, an analysis was recently conducted to ascertain
whether this had occurred in Thailand. The study concluded that there
was, in fact, no significant relationship between the incentives provided
and the capital intensity of investments undertaken.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
20.       In view of the degree of discretion that can be exercised by BOI
and the consequences of poor decisions in terms of resource dissipation, it
is clear that its efficient functioning is an imperative. In the view of the
Bank's industrial sector mission the BOI's capabilities needed considerable
strengthening in its staffing, operating systems and procedures and through
the availability of specialized expertise to focus on specific tasks. To
assist BOI and relieve it of some unnecessary work in examining each case
from the ground up a system of general criteria applicable to broad cate-
gories of industries also needs to be developed.
21.       BOI is now receiving limited technical assistance from USAID.  As
a first step toward addressing some of the broader issues influencing invest-
ment promotion and evaluating its costs and benefits the BOI had also pre-
pared for submission to the UNDP three studies which would enable it to:
(i) determine priorities for investment, project possibilities, and the
desired pattern of agro-industrial development; (ii) develop a policy posi-
tion on foreign investment and the incentives and safeguards needed to
attract it; and (iii) review alternative approaches to industrial investment
promotion. However, with the recent retrenchment in UNDP commitments the
BOI is actively seeking grant financing from other sources to finance the
costs of consultants to carry out those studies. Following recent discus-
sions with the Bank, BOI and the Government are now considering expanding
the scope of these studies to incorporate a broader analysis of strategic
and policy measures needed to assist more rational and co-ordinated indus-
trial development. Together with such an analysis BOI proposes to launch
a parallel study aimed at improving the co-ordination of investment regu-
lation and at strengthening its own operational capabilities.
22.       Foreign Investment.  Direct foreign investment (DFI) has made a
substantial contribution to the development of Thai industry. Out of the
883 firms promoted by BOI between ,L960-75, 415 (or 47%) were joint-ventures
and 22 (2.5%) were wholly foreign-owned firms. The foreign contributed por-
tion of the registered capital of these firms amounted to Bt. 3.94 billion
(or 29%) out of total registered capital of Bt. 13.55 billion. Japan is by
far the single largest source of DFI accounting for 38.5% of the inflowing
foreign capital. As of the end of 1975 there were over 115 manufacturing
firms in which Japanese enterprises had a direct financial interest. These
firms reported total paid-in capital of about Bt. 2.8 billion of which about
48% was owned by Japanese investors. Next to the Japanese, the US and
Taiwan accounted for the second and third largest share of DFI, accounting
for 14% and 11.5% respectively; as a bloc, European investment accounted for
about 12.6% of foreign investment. Most foreign participation has been in
non-traditional sectors resulting in the inflow of new technology and in the
training of Thai personnel in relatively new fields.
23.       Government policy is generally to:  (i) encourage DFI but to selec-
tively direct it to sectors where foreign expertise and capital are most
needed; and (ii) increase Thai participation in joint-ventures. The gradual
reduction of the foreign share of ownership is often a major stipulation
when promotional privileges are granted. An Aliens Business Act regulating
DFI was promulgated in November 1972 which identified the following activity



ANNEX 2
Page 12
categories for participation: (i) industries in which existing foreign
majority participation was to be ended within two years; 1/ (ii) industries
in which no new foreign majority-owned companies could be established but
existing ones could continue but could not expand beyond a certain limit; 2/
and (iii) industries in which new foreign majority owned companies could be
established and existing ones allowed to expand indefinitely. 3/ At the
same time an Alien Occupation Law was also passed banning foreigners from
certain specified occupations (e.g. accounting) and requiring all aliens to
obtain work permits. Enactment of these somewhat unclear and ambiguous laws
coupled with unsettled political and labor conditions through 1974 created
considerable uncertainty in the minds of foreign investors and may have
contributed to declining levels of DFI since then.
24.       Recent Policy Developments.  In line with the last government's
emphasis on export promotion and stimulation of investment to generate
employment the BOI, in April 1975, announced new and more detailed guide-
lines on investment promotion. The explicit objectives behind the changes
were: (i) the creation of a favorable investment climate; (ii) the promo-
tion of DFI with appropriate safeguards; (iii) greater decentralization of
investment to provincial areas through special incentives and through pro-
vision of improved public infrastructure; (iv) acceleration of project iden-
tification effort through special studies; (v) direct relation of promotional
privileges to the benefits expected to be derived in each case; and (vi) for-
mulation of an explicit industrialization strategy. Promotional benefits
granted are now linked to employment creation, export generation, use of
locally produced raw materials and plant location in the designated develop-
ment zones. Under the new rules, non-export oriented industries (less than
20% of total sales exported) are now eligible for promotional privileges
only if they locate outside Bangkok, have protection of less than 30%, value-
added of at least 30% and Thai participation of at least 40%. Moreover, they
can receive tax exempt status (limited to a maximum of 5 years) only if they
employ 200 or more workers and invest at least Bt. 50 million. Export-
oriented firms, on the other hand, receive tax exempt status from a minimum
of 5 years and are entitled to promotional privileges without having to
meet the above criteria.
1/   Mainly rice-farming, domestic agricultural trade, construction and pro-
fessional services.
2/   Agricultural production (except rice), light industry, hand-crafts,
retail trades and domestic transportation. Existing firms cannot in-
crease their annual sales or production over 30% above 1972 levels.
Businesses granted promotional privileges are exempt from this pro-
vision.
3/   Other trade activities, heavy industry and mining.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
25.       In addition, in August 1975, the Prime Minister issued a policy
statement further clarifying government's attitude toward DFI and announced
the formation of a "Foreign Investment Advisory Council" to be comprised of
prominent foreign and Thai businessmen. An Executive Committee for Exports
has also been recently formed which has proposed a series of measures for
promoting exports. 1/ A new and more liberal Labor Relations Act has been
passed. It legalizes unions in establishments with over 50 workers, permits
unions to federate on a nationwide basis and provides a formal arbitration
channel through a Labor Relations Committee in the Ministry of the Interior.
26.       Impact of Policy Measures.  Government's fiscal incentives have
undoubtedly encouraged investment but it is difficult to assess precisely
their impact. Clearly, as recent irnvestment performance has shown, these
incentives alone are not sufficient to encourage investment under unfa-
vorable political conditions and uncertain prospects of stability. Whether
the costs of providing these incentives in the form of taxes foregone have
been commensurate with the benefits is also a matter on which no definitive
judgements can be made at this stage. It is, however, strongly suspected that
the potential impact of these measures has not been fully realized because of
the absence of any relation of these measures to desirable and clear strategic
objectives. In those instances where the objectives are clear, even in gen-
eral terms (e.g. employment generation and decentralization), it is as yet
too early to judge whether the incentives package will have an impact although
the early signs are not too encouraging. In view of the growing importance of
the industrial sector and its potential for addressing the problems of growth
and employment, an effort to develop strategy, devise and refine appropriate
policies and monitor their impact is of urgent priority.
27.       Priorities for Future Action.  The preceding paragraphs have alluded
to several gaps in strategy, policy and information which need to be bridged
if effective policies are to be formulated. To recapitulate, these are:
(i) information: present data on several important features
of the industrial sector are inadequate and a much better
information system needs to be developed;
(ii) coordination: new organizational arrangements need to be
developed for all policies affecting industrial development
and the BOI needs to be strengthened;
(iii) review of promotional incentives: present ad hoc reviews
of individual applications by the BOI should be replaced
by a framework of broader policies along the lines outlined
in paragraph 18, above;
1/   Please see the latest Bank economic report ("Thailand:  Current Economic
Prospects and Selected Development Issues"), No. 924-TH dated November 14,
1975 (paragraph 2.33, p. 38, Volume I).



ANNEX 2
Page 14
(iv) tariff reform: major reform of tariffs and indirect taxes
is essential to establish a more uniform level of effective
incentives; detailed recommendations are contained in a
special report prepared under Bank sponsorship;
(v) reduced reliance on direct controls: import, export, price
and investment control should be administered within the
framework of well designed investment incentives and
reliance on direct control reduced;
(vi) export incentives: the export tax credit scheme I/ should
be expanded and its administration liberalized, the import
duty exemption scheme should be phased out as recommended
by the Bank's industrial sector mission;
(vii) location strategy: a two-phase strategy should be adopted
with initial emphasis being placed on location of new pro-
jects near the ports being developed in the South and South-
East. The second stage should emphasize location on devel-
opment zones in other areas. Policies encouraging infra-
structure and transport rate differentials in favor of the
Bangkok area should be reviewed, and the over-provision of
incentives to relocate should be avoided.
1/   Administered by the Fiscal Policy Office in the Ministry of Finance.



THiAILAND
INDUSTHIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Gross Domestic Product at Constant 1962 Market Prices by Industrial Origin
(Billions of Baht)
1969     1970      1971     197      ' 1973   1974      1975_
Agriculture                                      35.3      36.2     37.7      37.1     40.9     42.2      45.0
Mining, quarrying                                 1.8       1.8      1.9       1.8      1.8       2.1      1.9
Manufacturing                                    18.8      20.6     23.9     26.5      30.4      31.1     33.0
Construction                                      7.0       7.0      6.2       5.8      5.8       6.1      7.2
Electricity, water supply                         1.6      1.9       2.9      3.6       4.2      4.5       5.o
Transportation, corimunication                    7.3       8.?      8.6       9.3      9.7      10.1     10.6
Trade                                            18.8     21.0      21.6     22.7      25.6      25.1     24.7
Bankivig, insurance, real estate                  4.1      4.8       5.3       5.6      6.2       6.8      8.1
Uwnership of dwellings                            2.2       2.3      2.4       2.4      2.5       2.6      2.8
Public administration, defence                    4.8      5.2       5.6      5.8       6.4      6.6       7.5
Other services                                   10.9      11.8     12.8     13.8      15.0      16.0     17.5
5ross domestic product                          112.6    120.7    129.0    134.5    148.6    153.4    163.2
Source:     NESDB.
Jote:    Totals may not add because of rounding.
p/   Preliminary.                                                                                                rv
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Growth of Gross Domestic Product at Constant 1962 Market Prices by Industrial Origin
(Percent)
1969     1970     1971     1972      1973     1974     1975E/
Agriculture                                      7.5      2.6      4.3      -1.6     10.2      3.2      6.6
Mining quarrying                                 4.4     -1.0      4.9      -2.4     -2.2     15.9      (6.9)
Manufacturing                                   13.4      9.5     16.2      10.7     14.6      2.5       6.1
Construction                                     1.5     -0.4    -11.5      -6.9      1.1      4.8      17.3
Electricity, water supply                        8.o     19.9     57.3      21.3     17.9      8.4       9.8
Transportation, communications                   6.9     13.1      4.6       8.3      4.1      4.1       5.1
Trade                                            5.8     11.9      3.0       5.2     12.7     (2.0)    (1.7)
Banking, insurance, real estate                 17.0     16.5     10.8       5.6     10.0     11.0      18.2
Ownership of dwelling                            5.2      4.2      3.5       3.1      3.2      4.3       4.6
Public administration, defence                   8.1      9.2      8.4       2.9     10.5      2.2      13.8
Other services                                   7.0      7.4      8.6       7.9      9.1      6.7       9.2
Gross domestic product                           7.9      7.3      6.9       4.2     10.5      3.9       6.4
Source:  NESDB.
p/   Preliminary.
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 2
THAILAND                            Table 3
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORFORATION OF THAILAND
Gross Domestic Product Originating From
Manufacturing At Current Market Prices
(Billions of Baht)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975 
Food                                         4.8     5.3     4.8      6.6     9.5      n.a.
Beverages                                    2.2     2.2      2.5     3.1     3.9      n.a.
Tobacco and snuff                            2.0     2.4     2.6      2.9     3.9      n.a.
Textiles                                     1.7     2.3      3.3     4.1     4.7      n.a.
Wearing apparel and made-up textile
goods and footwear                         1.1     1.6     1.8      2.5     3.1     n.a.
Wood and cork                                o.6     o.6      0.7     0.9     1.3      n.a.
Furniture and fixtures                       0.3     0.3      0.3     o.4     0.5      n.a.
Paper and paper products                    0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      n.a.
Printing, publishing and allied
industries                                0.6      0.6     0.7      1.0     1.2     n.a.
Leather and leather products (excl.
footwear)                                 0.1      0.2     0.2      0.3     0.2      n.a.
Rubber and rubber products                   0.4     0.5      0.5     0.6     o.8      n.a.
Chemicals and chemical products              1.5     1.6      1.8     2.0     2.4      n.a.
Petroleum refining and coal                  1.6     2.1     2.4      3.0     4.2      n.a.
Non-metallic mineral products                1.4     1.5      1.6     2.0     2.4      n.a.
Basic metal industries                       0.3     0.3     0.4      o.6     0.7      n.a.
Metal products (excl. machinery and
transport equipment)                      0.5      o.6     0.7      1.1     1.4      n.a.
Repairing of non-electrical machinery        0.4     0.5      0.6     0.7     0.8      n.a.
Electrical machinery and supplies            0.3     0.3     0.4      0.5     0.5      n.a.
Transport equipment                          1.3     1.5     1.8      3.4     4.5    n.a.
Miscellaneous, n.e.s.                        0.5     0.6     0.6      0.7     0.8      n.a.
Total value added                     21.7    25.3    28.0    36.6    47.1       n.a.
Total gross domestic product         135.9   143.9   162.1   215.2   270.0       n.a.
Source: NESDB
p/   Preliminary.
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 4
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORFORATION OF THAILAND
Gross Domestic Product Originating From Manufacturing at 1962 Prices
(Billions of Baht)
1970    1971    1972    1973R'  19742.  19752/
Food                                         5.1      5.2     5.2      5.4     6.o      n.a.
Beverages                                    2.0      2.0     2.3      2.8     3.1      n.a.
Tobacco and snuff                            1.6      1.7     1.8      2.0     2.1      n.a.
Textiles                                     1.7      2.4     3.0      3.8     3.7      n.a.
Wearing apparel and made-up
textile goods                              0.1      1.5     1.6      1.8     1.9      n.a.
Wood and cork                                0.5      0.6     0.5      0.5     o.6      n.a.
Furniture and fixtures                       0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3     o.4      n.a.
Paper and paper products                     0.1      0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1      n.a.
Printing, publishing and allied
industries                                 0.5      0.5     o.6      0.7     0.7      n.a.
Leather and leather products (excl.
footwear)                                  0.1      0.1     0.1      0.2     0.1      n.a.
Rubber and rubber products                   0.5      0.7     o.8      0.8      0.9     n.a.
Chemicals and chemical products              1.3      1.4     1.5      1.5     1.5      n.a.
Petroleum refining and coal                  1.6      2.7     3.1      3.9     3.2      n.a.
Non-metallic mineral products                1.4      1.3     1.8      2.0     2.1      n.a.
Basic metal industries                       0.3      0.3     o.4      0.5     0.3      n.a.
Metal products (excl. machinery and
transport equipment)                       0.7      0.7     0.8     0.9      0.9      n.a.
Repairing of non-electrical machinery        0.4      o.4     o.4      0.5     0.5      n.a.
Electrical machinery and supplies            0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.4      n.a.
Transport equipment                          0.9      1.1     1.2      1.7      1.9     n.a.
Miscellaneous, n.e.s.                        0.4      0.4     0.5      0.5     o.6      n.a.
Total value added                      20.6    23.9    26.5    30.4    31.1    33.0
Total gross domestic product          120.7   129.0   134.5   148.6   154.4   163.2
Source:    NESDB
2/   Preliminary.
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Registered Manufacturing Firms by Size and Location - 1972
Small Scale        Medium Scale         Large Scale
Factories2/        Factoriesb/          Factoriesa/            Total
Location                             No.                 No.       __         No.       %         No.      %_
Greater Bangkok Area               15,457    24.6       1,163      59.8        265    71.6      16,885    25.8
Central Region                      8,374    13.3         319     16.4          70    18.9       8,763    13.4
Northeast Region                   18,351    29.2         195     10.0          15     4.1      18,561    28.5
Northern Region                    13,221    21.0         112       5.8          7      1.9     13,340    20.5
Southern Region                     7,510    11.9         156      8.0          13      3.5      7,679    11.8
Total                         62,913   100.0       12945    100.0           0   100.0      65,228   100.0
a/   Total assets less than Baht 1 million (US$50,000 equivalent).
6/ Total assets over Baht 1 million but less than Baht 10 million (US$500,000 equivalent).
c/ Total assets over Baht 10 million (US$500,000 equivalent).
Source:    Factory Control Division, Industrial Works Department, Ministry of Industry.
CD P-4
EAP Projects Department                                                                                       n 
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 2
THAILAND                        Table 6
INDUSIRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Number of Registered Establishments in the Manufacturing Sector - 1973
Metro.         Other
Industry Group                                Bangkok       Provinces       Total
Processed food                                  766          23,039        23,805
Tobacco and beverages                            34              88           122
Textiles                                        379             266           645
Wearing apparel and made-up goods                117               8          125
Wood and cork products                          667              824        1,491
Furniture and fixtures                           154              82          236
Paper and paper products                        120              25           145
Printing, publishing and allied industries    881               141         1,029
Leather and leather goods, footwear*             80              83           163
Rubber and rubber goods                          212             142           354
Chemicals and chemical products                 844             182         1,026
Petroleum refining and coal                       8                3           11
Non-metallic mineral products                     31              84          115
Basic metal industries                           995             244        1,239
Metal products                                   618              64          682
Machinery, non-electrical                        950             787        1,737
Electrical machinery                            255              60           315
Transport equipment                              796            520         1,316
Miscellaneous manufacturing                      235              21          256
Total                                    8,223          26,828        35.051
*    Discrepancy in data.
Source:     Ministry of Industry.
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 7
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAlJAND
Distribution of Establishments Among Groups of Industry as at End of 1973
(Perc entage)
Metro-
politan        Other
Industry Group                                Area         Provinces      Total
Processed food                                9.32          85.88        67.92
Tobacco and beverage                          0.41           0.33         0.35
Construction materials                        0.90           0.62         0.68
Intermediate product - I                     11.15           2.81         4.77
Intermediate products - II                   24.57           3.55         8.48
Nondurable consumer goods                    27.35           1.42          7.50
Consumer durable                              8.66           1.50         3.18
Machinery                                    12.81           3.05          5.34
Transport equipment                           4.84           o.85         1.75
Source:   Annex 2, Table 6.
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANEX 2
THAILAND                      Table 8
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Exports and Manufacturing Exports
(in Baht million)
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Principal Exports                   11,295  10,949  11,892  14,778  19,458  33,916
Rice                               2,945   2,517   2,909   4,437   3,594   9,778
Rubber                             2,664   2,232   1,905   1,862   4,573   5,035
Maize                              1,767   1,969   2,286   2,085   2,969   6,078
Tin (metal)                        1,631   1,618   1,569   1,664   2,035   3,096
Tapioca                              876   1,223   1,240   1,547   2,537   3,836
Kenaf and jute                       780     719      935   1,087   1,054      845
Sugar                                 47      94      382   1,264   1,161   3,757
Shrimp                               270     224      247     340      804     642
Teak                                 166     156      183     208      422     402
Tobacco leaves                       149     197      236     284      309     447
Other Merchandise Exports            3,427   3,823   5,389   7,713  12,768  16,329
Agricultural products              1,014   1,114   1,301   1,522   2,178   2,460
Fishery products                      57     143      249     430      779      786
Forestry products                     61      63       83     108      260     226
Mineral products                     334     440      795     673      737   1,129
*Manufacturing Products               704     808   1,350   2,618   5,509   7,336
Temporary exports                    371     366      625     916      989     753
Re-exports                           621     522      598     875   1,080   1,161
Diplomatic shipments                  26      63       82      92      165     135
Personal effects                      33      32       53      55       66      74
Other items                          206     272      253     424   1,005   2,269
Total Merchandise Exports           14,722  14,772  17,281  22,491  32,226  50,245
*Manufacturing Products                704     808   1,350   2,618   5,509   7,336
Pineapple, canned                     37      55       44      51       75     272
Garments                              16       18      67     258      660      834
Molasses                              32      45       86       91     312     490
Cemernts                              38      83       90     218      314     652
Petroleum products                    38       36     132     248      379     305
Spinning                               1       5       27     112      159     165
Silk, fabrics                         39      34       30      29       39      35
Textiles                              31      23       62     271   1,027       761
Jute yarn & jute fabrics, twine
cordage rope, cable of jute          2      16       63      81      198     485
Hemp yarn and thread                  35       19       5    --       -        __
Gunny bags                            74       63     178      170     312      329
Iron & steel products                 29      41       46     118      174     335
Household utensils of wood            10       18      33       72     135      167
Precious stones and jewelry          150     137      232      383     641     769
Other manufacturing products         172     215      255      516   1,084   1,737
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 9
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Manufacturing Employment
% Increase in
Employment  Value Added at   Estimated
1970      Constant Prices   Employment   % of 1973
Thousands      1973/1970         1973       Employment
Food                             110.5             8.6           120.0         14.1%
Beverages                         10.4            10.5            11.5          1.4%
Tobacco and snuff                 19.7            21.2            23.9          2.8%
Textiles                          62.3            53.6            95.7         11.2%
Wearing apparel and made-up
textile goods                  132.5           26.7            167.8         19.7%
Wood and cork (incl. saw mills)   75.3            -1.8            73.9          8.7%
Furniture and fixtures             L4.9          -22.2            11.6           1.4%
Paper and paper products           8.1           18.2              9.6          1.1%
Printing, publishing and allied
industries                       L6.2           22.9            19.9          2.3%
Leather and leather products
except footwear                 11.1            30.0            14.4          1.7%
Rubber and rubber products         8.8            83.3            16.1          1.9%
Chemicals and chemical products ) 7.0            45.9             24.8          2.9%
Petroleum refining and coal     )
Non-metallic mineral products     43.7            37.7            60.2          7.1%
Basic metal industries            27.8            33.3            37.1          4.4%
Metal products not machinery
and transport equipments        18.4           23.5             22.7          2.7%
Repairing of non electrical
machinery                        0.9            33.3             1.2          0.1%
Electrical machineries and
supplies                        14.4           22.2             17.6          2.1%
Transport equipments              60.1            28.9            77.5          9.1%
Miscellaneous n.e.c.              31.1            51.2            47.0          5.5%
Total employment            682.5                           852.5        100.0%
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 10
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Indicators of Regional Developmentl/
Regional
Total     Center     South      North     Northeast
Population (million)           39.9       13.9       4.9        8.5         13.6
GDP (billions of Baht)        187.7      108.0       22.3      27.2         30.2
GDP per capita (Baht)         4,540      8,230      4,340     3,020        2,140
GDP originating in manu-
facturing (1972) (billions
of Baht)                     26.7       20.7        1.7       2.0          2.3
Regional manufacturing as
% of total national manu-
facturing GDP                 100%        79%         6%        7%           8%
Manufacturing % of
Regional GDP                  __        18.8%       7.2%      7.0%         7.3%
Regional share of national
electricity consumption
(1972)                       100%         86%        4%         5%           5%
Manufacturing growth
rate (1969-73)                8.5%       9.2%       4.2%      5.5%         8.0%
Manufacturing employment
(1970)                   682,000    447,000    56,ooo   101,000        78,000
Number of investment projects
(promoted in 1960-73) in
operation                     500        432         29        22           17
Source: NESDB, NSO, and BOI.
1/   Figures are for 1973 unless otherwise noted.
EAP Projects Department
March 22, 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
The Financial Sector
1.        Background.  In terms of its structure, the diversity of institu-
tions, financial services offered and the variety of financial instruments
available for mobilizing savings, the financial system in Thailand is still
in the early stages of its development. Beginning in 1970 a number of new
financial institutions have emerged and the pace of financial sector devel-
opment and diversification has quickened. Nonetheless, much remains to be
done. The role of private pension and provident funds needs to be widened,
as does that of life insurance companies, in the mobilization of savings.
The market for government securities needs to be further developed 1/ as
does that for corporate issues. In the latter regard, the establishment
of the Securities Exchange of Thailand (SET), the continued growth of fi-
nance companies and the about-to-be established Mutual Fund Co. should
prove to be salutary developments. However, in the Thai financial environ-
ment and the prevailing climate of uncertainty it is unlikely that either
the supply of quality corporate securities or the demand for them will
pick up at a rapid pace.
2.        As of October 31, 1975 thie total assets of the monetary system
stood at Bt. 156.3 billion having grown by about 13% over a twelve month
period. This does not include the assets of the "unorganized" sector which
covers the operations of private money-lenders, operations of the "pia huey"
or rotating credit societies, private non-registered credit unions, private
borrowing and lending between individuals, and between farmers and traders.
No data on financial transactions in the unorganized market are available
but its assets are believed by Bank of Thailand (BOT) experts to be quite
sizeable (estimates ranging from Bt. 30-50 billion). According to a rural
credit survey carried out in 1971 by the Ministry of Agriculture and Coop-
eratives it was estimated that around 80% of farm sector credit needs were
met by the unorganized market with interest rates ranging between 25-150%.
The organized financial sector (described below) essentially comprises:
1/   At present the market for government securities is limited largely to
banking institutions. Of total Government Bonds outstanding of Bt. 40.8
billion at October 31, 1975, the Bank of Thailand held 19.2%, commercial
banks held 42.5%, the Government Savings Bank held 30.2% and other insti-
tutions held the balances of 8.1%. This last low percentage is an
indicator of the relative stage of financial development.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(i) the commercial banking system; (ii) finance companies and investment
houses; (iii) the Government Savings Bank; (iv) insurance companies; (v) spe-
cialized financial institutions serving specific sectors; and (vi) pawnshops
and credit fonciers. It also includes the fledgling capital market.
Commercial Banks
3.        The financial system is dominated by a central core of 29 commer-
cial banks, of which 16 are Thai-owned I/ and 13 are branches of foreign
banks. The former had 846 branches at the end of 1974 of which 543 were
outside the Bangkok-Thonburi metropolis. The total number of branches was
estimated to have risen to about 920 at the end of 1975. Thai banks clearly
dominate the commercial banking scene accounting for 94% of deposits, nearly
90% of advances and 91% of the total assets of commercial banks. Foreign
banks had only 19 branches at the end of 1974. Because of Thailand's banking
laws and practices the role of foreign banks has been proscribed by limiting
the number of branches foreign banks can establish. This has effectively
confined them largely to doing business with foreign companies investing in
Thailand. Commercial banking activity, which mobilizes about 73% of total
savings and extends 72% of total credit in the organized sector, is regulated
by the Bank of Thailand (the central bank).
4.        On October 31, 1975 the total assets of the commercial banking
system stood at Bt. 110.4 billion of which Bt. 4.55 billion (or 4.1%) repre-
sented inter-bank holdings within the domestic system, a further Bt. 2.2
billion (2%) with banks abroad and Bt. 17.8 billion (or 16.1%) represented
holdings of government securities. Loans and overdrafts accounted for Bt. 53
billion or 48% of total assets while discount facilities extended (mainly
for imports and exports) accounted for a further 17.3% (Bt. 19.1 billion).
Of the loans and overdrafts outstanding, two sectors - manufacturing and
wholesale/retail trade - accounted for the lion's share, about 32% (Bt. 16.6
billion) and 30% (Bt. 15.9 billion) respectively, with agriculture accounting
for a relatively meager 4% (Bt. 2.1 billion). Commercial banks generally
make loans for up to 2 years although there have been instances where, under
floating rate frame agreements, they have lent for up to 6 years. Overdrafts
are normally short-term accounts; however, since overdraft limits are renewed
each year if the relationship has been satisfactory to the bank, they effec-
tively constitute a form of medium and long-term financing. A large propor-
tion of loans and advances to the manufacturing sector goes toward the finan-
cing of capital investments. 2/
1/   The second largest of these, the Krung Thai Bank, is almost wholly
government owned.
2/   No firm data are available on either amounts or maturities of such
loans and overdrafts.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
5.        On the savings mobilization side, as at October 31, 1975 deposits 1/
accounted for 76.5% of total commercial bank liabilities (Bt. 82.7 million).
Demand, savings and time deposits were distributed roughly in a 16:9:75 pro-
portion. The domestic household and corporate sectors accounted for over 93%
of all commercial bank deposits. Borrowings by commercial banks amounted to
Bt. 11 billion, with the Bank of Thailand providing about 30% of the total
and foreign banks about 66%. Commercial bank capital accounts amounted to
Bt. 8.6 billion, of which nearly Bt. 3.0 billion represented paid-in share
capital. While no data are available on the maturity structure of deposits
the figures available on rates of turnover suggest that the average length
of time over which demand deposits stayed with banks was 37 days and
savings deposits about 17 months; the average length of time deposit was
generally one year.
6.        Over the 10-month period December 1974 to October 1975, total de-
posits with commercial banks rose by Bt. 9.65 billion or at an annual rate
of 15.5% vs. 27% in 1974. Over the same period loans and overdrafts in-
creased at an annual rate of 20% vs 33% in 1974 and discounting facilities
increased at an annual rate of 10% in 1975 vs. 35% in 1974. While loans and
advances to the manufacturing and trade sectors grew by 37% 2/ and 21% res-
pectively, those to the agricultural sector rose by nearly 80% in response
to Government pressures to increase lending to rural areas. The continued
growth in deposits coupled with a disproportionate decline in lending pumped
sufficient liquidity into the commercial banks to: (i) reduce their out-
standing balances with BOT and foreign banks; 3/ and (ii) increase their in-
vestments in government securities.
7.        The asset growth rate of commercial banks over the past decade has
been fairly spectacular in absolute terms with assets growing nearly six
times from Bt. 18.9 billion at end 1965 to Bt. 110.4 billion in October 1975.
Over the same period the total assets of the financial system grew by just
over four times. However the disparity between the two growth rates has
been reduced over the last three years with the recently established finance
companies beginning to make inroads into some part of the commercial bank
market. Thai commercial banks operate very much as a cartel. The Thai Bank-
ers Association constitutes a powerful lobby and no new banks have been
established since 1965. There is v-irtually no price competition between
1/   Excluding marginal deposits.
2/   This growth reflected mainly working capital provided for inventory
financing, a large share being accounted for by special facilities ex-
tended to the textile sector.
3/   Heavy commercial bank borrowing, from abroad in late 1973-74 to circumvent
domestic monetary controls led to the government's passing a law in 1975
empowering BOT to register and regulate all bank and non-bank foreign
borrowings.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
banks. For the past few years they have operated with a comfortable 5-6%
interest margin between their deposit and lending rates. Between 1970-75
their published balance sheets showed profit rates averaging 18%. In early
1976 four commercial banks declared dividends ranging from 21-65% on par value
of shares. Operating in a simple financial environment, more or less on their
own terms, Thai commercial banks (with 2 or 3 notable exceptions) have not
felt the pressures of competition and have shown little inclination to adopt
venturesome loan policies, or to develop business with not so well established
clients. In so far as lending for productive projects is concerned their
appraisals are generally superficial and disclosure requirements minimal as
their lending is based entirely on collateral coverage rather than project
merit.
Finance and Security Companies
8.        Finance companies (a term which encompasses any financial institu-
tion which cannot accept deposits but borrows funds through the issuance of
promissory notes or other similar instruments and lends virtually for any
purpose) arrived relatively recently on the Thai financial scene, the first
one being established in 1964. Since then they have so far enjoyed phenome-
nal, uninterrupted growth largely because they could operate outside the in-
terest rate and leverage regulations applying to commercial banks. Initially
allowed to operate in a free-wheeling vein, finance companies 1/ have now
come under increasing regulation by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of
Thailand. However, very little detailed information is as yet available
on the industry, as less than half the number of companies file any finan-
cial statements with BOT.
9.        While in 1964 there were only 3 finance companies, by 1969 they
had grown to 33 and further to 114 at the end of 1975. Of these, however,
only 12 are of any significant size with the five largest companies account-
ing for about 30% of the assets of all financial companies (estimated at
about Bt. 22 billion in 1975) but only 17% of their total net worth. These
companies are extremely profitable and, in the past, have been very highly
geared operating with risk assets to capital ratios in the range of 50:1 2/
and charging effective interest rates ranging from 15%-36% (for the consumer
finance companies).
10.       Engaging primarily in short-term operations finance companies gene-
rally raise funds from commercial banks (most of whom are prominent share-
holders), corporate depositors and wealthy private depositors, offering
1/   There are four basic types:  finance companies; securities companies;
consumer finance companies; and credit foncier.
2/   In July 1975 BOT announced that finance companies would have to reduce
these ratios to 28.5:1 by January 1, 1976 and to 20:1 by January 1, 1977.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
yields on one-year promissory notes of between 10-13% (vs. the ceiling
deposit rate of 8%). A relatively large proportion (nearly 19%) of their
financing (especially for those companies with foreign participation) is
obtained offshore; as a result their borrowing and lending rates fluctuate
Wi,il rate movements in the Euro-dollar market. As at November 1975 finance
companies had outstanding domestic borrowings of Bt. 16.9 million from the
public of which 42% was from individuals and the balance from domestic banks
and corporate clients. This level of borrowing represented about 20% of
commercial bank deposits, having risen from 13% in 1974 and 7.5% in 1973,
indicating that these institutions are making rapid inroads into the deposit
preserve of commercial banks.
11.       On the lending side roughly 80% of their total lending was in the
form of call loans and other loans with a maturity of less than one year.
Finance companies' share of total credits has increased steeply from 1.9% at
end 1969 to 18% at end-1974. This increase has been largely at the expense
of commercial banks whose share has declined steadily from 84.3% to 72% over
the same period.  Most finance companies engage mainly in installment credit
and accounts receivable financing. A few of the larger investment houses
(which concentrate on operations with the corporate sector) have begun to
make term loans of upto 6 years 1/ at floating rates (which in 1975 averaged
between 14%-16%) as part of their increasing syndication operations. Some
have also underwritten corporate share issues. Two of the largest invest-
ment houses possess high quality project appraisal capabilities.
12.       Although their dynamism, competitiveness and growth rate has been
impressive finance companies are now entering an era of stability, consoli-
dation and regulation both externally and within the industry itself. 2/
Compared to the entry of 79 companies between 1970-74 there were only two
new entrants in 1975. The general feeling within the financial community
is that there are now too many finance houses and there is a pressing need
to merge them and strengthen their capital base. Accordingly BOT has re-
quired finance companies to have registered capital of at least Bt. 40 mil-
lion and paid-in of Bt. 20 million. They must also maintain liquid assets
amounting to not less than 7% of funds borrowed from individual deposits
and 3% of funds borrowed from juristic entities. The minimum size of finance
company promissory notes has been set at Bt. 50,000 for Bangkok and the two
adjoining provinces and Bt. 10,000 elsewhere. These regulations will probably
mean slower growth in future, especiially as the asset base is now much larger.
1/   The total portfolio of such loans made by finance companies was esti-
mated to be about Bt. 600-800 mlillion as at end-1975.
2/   A Thai Securities Underwriting and Finance Association has been formed
in which 35 finance companies including the major ones have obtained
membership.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
The Government Savings Bank (GSB)
13.       GSB is the principal vehicle for mobilizing small savings in Thai-
land. Set up under the GSB Act of 1946 it is a wholly government owned bank
and operates under the general guidance of the Ministry of Finance. In the
recent past GSB, with its extensive branch network, has been serving as little
more than, a collection agency for small savings deposits which are converted
into Government securities. As at August 31, 1975 its total assets were Bt.
13.64 billion of which Bt. 12.41 billion or 91% were invested in government
securities. Total asset growth declined from levels of 23% in 1972-73 to 4%
in 1975. The loans made by GSB declined in both absolute and relative terms
dropping from a share of 30.2% in 1962 to 2.4% in 1975. Between 1962-1968
most of these loans were to Government enterprises; the share of loans to
private individuals increasing from Bt. 137 million in 1965 to Bt. 291 mil-
lion in 1971. Since then they have fluctuated between Bt. 230-270 million.
The bulk (72.4%) of GSB's resources are provided by time and savings deposits
which collect an interest of 6% for 6-month deposits and 7% for 12-month
deposits. A further 11.2% of its resources are derived from the sale of
premium and savings bonds.
14.       Given its large branch network, its contact with very small savers
throughout the country and its success at mobilizing rural savings the pos-
sible expansion of GSB's role to include resource allocation, particularly in
rural areas, should be given careful consideration.
Insurance Companies
15.       The insurance business in Thailand is still in its infancy although
life insurance companies have been operating in Thailand since 1929 (insurance
reserves accounted for barely 2.3% of total household savings in 1973). Their
slow growth has been attributed to the setbacks caused when the largest in-
surance company in Thailand failed in 1962 followed by another in 1968. The
impact of these failures, however, is being gradually overcome. In 1973 and
1974 the insurance industry (comprising 11 life insurance companies, of which
2 were foreign, and 56 general insurance companies) recorded growth rates of
23% for general insurance and 34% for life insurance. The general insurance
industry's growth is impeded by: (i) the lack of locally available rein-
surance which causes resources to flow abroad; (ii) legal limitations on the
investment of insurance company assets; and (iii) the propensity of Thai
importers to insure their cargo shipments abroad.
16.       As for life insurance, despite recent advances there were only
about 400,000 active policies in the market as of end 1974 of which about
310,000 had been sold in the two preceding years. At the end of 1974 the
total sum insured was Bt. 10.9 million. However, in Thailand about 50% of
the policies signed in any given year are expected to be surrendered within
the next two years and a further 20-25% in the two years after. Life insur-
ance has therefore yet to come of age. With basic attitudinal factors in
Thailand militating against insuring for the future it is likely to be a slow



ANNEX 3
Page 7
haul. Nevertheless the development of an established insurance industry is
essential in securing a relatively stable stream of resources for long-term
investment. Promotion of the insurance industry, with government support if
necessary, therefore needs to be given active consideration.
Specialized Financial Institutions
17.       In addition to the above, Thailand has a number of specialized finan-
cial institutions which have been established under specific legislation to
meet the long-term credit needs of the agricultural, industrial and housing
sectors. A brief account of each oif these institutions is given below.
18.       The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Co-operatives (BAAC):
Established under its own Act in 1966 BAAC took over the functions and opera-
tions of the Bank for co-operatives (established in 1947). BAAC has a network
of 58 branches located throughout the country and lends to farmers both direct-
ly and through agricultural co-operatives. Its primary function is resource
allocation and it plays virtually no role in savings mobilization. As at
October 31, 1975 BAAC had total assets of Bt. 4.9 billion, of which Bt. 4.6
billion represented loans to farmers, a rapid jump from Bt. 2.65 billion at
the end of 1974. Following a goverrnment directive in 1975 requiring commer-
cial banks to channel at least Bt. *3.6 billion (5% of the total previous year's
loans) into agricultural portfolios, BAAC was suddenly flooded with offers of
deposits from commercial banks. As at October 31, 1975 BAAC had utilized
about Bt. 2.43 billion of available commercial bank funds which accounted for
50% of its total resources vs. 6.6% at the end of 1974. BAAC has also lined
up Japanese credits totalling X 8 billion from the OECF.
19.       Around 70% of BAAC's lending consists of 1-year production loans
to individual farmers (at a 12% rate); over 50% of these loans are for paddy
production. Medium term (3-5 year) loans are also provided for purchase of
livestock and equipment as well as for animal raising and the redemption of
mortgaged land. Long-term (10 year) loans at 10% are provided by BAAC for
debt refinancing and, from 1975 onwards, for farm development. So far, how-
ever, these loans account for less than 1% of all loans disbursed. Between
70-75% of BAAC's loans are to "registered" farmers who now number about
400,000. Despite extraordinarily bureaucratic procedures to prevent poor
loans, arrears are about 30% of loans outstanding, (an improvement on 1973
when they were 43%).
20.        So far, however, it is apparent that the constraint on the expan-
sion of BAAC's operations is not the availability of funds but its own in-
ternal capability to utilize them. A new management has recently been
installed and is attempting to introduce necessary changes into a large
and seemingly intractable bureaucracy. It is likely that if BAAC is suffi-
ciently strengthened it will, by 1977 or 1978, need additional resources to
carry out specific financing programs which it is now in the process of
developing.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
21.       The Industrial Finance Corporation  of Thailand (IFCT):  Although
established by special legislation (the IFCT Act of 1959) IFCT is a devel-
opment finance company owned by private interests, set up to provide long-
term credit to industry 1/ IFCT had between 1960-73 approved 234 loans valued
at Bt. 1.4 billion to assist industrial development and had outstanding loans
of Bt. 609 million at end 1973. Between 1974-75, however, IFCT's operations
increased dramatically with approvals of Bt. 1.54 billion for 100 loans in
those two years alone thus exceeding its total lending in the previous 13
years; as of end 1975 its outstanding loans amounted to Bt. 1.34 billion.
IFCT has also been instrumental in setting up the Mutual Fund Co. which will
provide the intermediary savings instrument to enable smaller savers to par-
ticipate indirectly, but actively, in the corporate issues market. While
being fairly effective in mobilizing funds from foreign official sources
most of IFCT's domestic funds have been obtained from Government, the Bank
of Thailand (BOT), and from its equity and debentures (sold mostly to a
limited circle of financial institutions). As yet IFCT is not geared to
mobilizing domestic savings directly from the public.
22.       The Small Industries Finance Office.  SIFO is not a juristic entity
but an office (set up in 1964) in the Department of Industrial Promotion,
Ministry of Industry. Its principal objective is to provide financial and
technical assistance to small industrial enterprises 2/ including cottage
and handicraft industries. SIFO cannot grant loans directly; it can only
recommend that loans be made by the Krung Thai Bank which provides 75% of
the loan amount while SIFO provides 25% from its budgetary allocation. In-
dividual loans are limited to a maximum of Bt. 1 million. As a financial
1/   IFCT essentially makes loans above Bt. 1 million leaving smaller loans
to be handled by SIFO. In financing industry IFCT competes with the
commercial banks, suppliers' credits and finance companies. Of these
sources in 1975 commercial banks were estimated to provide roughly
45% of the debt funds required for financing fixed assets in industry,
suppliers credits for about 30%, IFCT for about 10% and the finance
companies for about 15%. In 1975 suppliers' credits totalled Bt. 2.2
billion (US$110.3 million) vs. Bt. 2.6 billion (US$129.3 million) in
1974. Of the 1975 total 52% financed textile machinery, 13.4% sugar
refining machinery and 14.6% other types of machinery. A further
15.6% financed tractors and transport equipment. Roughly 52% of the
credits provided had terms of 5 years or more with interest rates
ranging between 4%-14% (over 50% of the value of the credits bore
interest rates of over 8.5%). Japan was the main source of suppliers'
credits accounting for 30.6% of the 1975 total with the U.K., Italy
and Germany accounting for a further 35.9%. The U.S. accounted
for less than 9% compared with 17% in 1974.
2/   Registered capital or total fixed assets not exceeding Bt. 2 million.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
conduit SIFO has not proven to be particularly effective in addressing the
needs of the small industry sector.  In the 10-year period 1964-74 1/ it
had approved only 809 loans for a total amount of Bt. 207 million (US$10.3
million). Its annual approvals reached a peak of Bt. 31.6 million in 1969
before dropping off to Bt. 14.9 million in 1974. Since then there has been
a recovery in SIFO lending, although with its limited staff and its proce-
dures there is a definite physical constraint on its project processing capa-
city.
23.       As of end-1974 SIFO's outstanding loans amounted to Bt. 58.2 mil-
lion. SIFO's loans averaged around Bt. 240,000 until 1970 when the average
size jumped to about Bt. 275,000 between 1972-73 and up to Bt. 350,000 in
1974, reflecting the impact of cost inflation. Most of the loans (90%) had
maturities ranging between 4-6 years and were made at an interest rate of
10% (9% + 1% service fee); they were lent mostly to established entrepreneurs
judging by the fact that the borrowers' own investments (in 1973-74) exceeded
their borrowings in the ratio of about 2.5:1. Most of the loans (about 35%)
were for fixed asset financing in the manufacturing sector. Loan losses
have been remarkably low, about 1% of the outstanding value, largely because
the loans are heavily overcollateralized (the security being reviewed and
set by the Krung Thai Bank). Arrearages amount to about 25% of the portfolio
and are accounted for by the large borrowers. Virtually no supervision is
carried out by SIFO and no assistance extended to borrowers in difficulty.
24.       The Government Housing Bank.  GHB was established in 1953 under
its own Act to provide mortgage finarnce for low and middle-income groups.
Its operations have been on a very small scale, providing finance to fewer
than 1,000 borrowers annually; its loans outstanding in June 1975 amounted
to Bt. 121 million. 2/ Prior to 1973 GHB relied solely on government trans-
fers for its resources; since then it has introduced deposit facilites, which
because they are limited to the same terms as commercial banks, 3/ have not
been particularly successful in mobilizing savings. In view of the heavy
financial requirements of the housing sector, better mobilization performance
by GHB is essential especially if the critical mortgage financing needs of
low-income borrowers are to be met. At present GHB is an almost insignificant
member of the financial sector; unless Government plans to revitalize it to
serve a broader clientele, its existing functions could easily be absorbed
by other institutions.
1/   Total approvals in FY75 were Bt. 29 million.
2/   In 1973 part of its assets were transferred to the National Housing
Authority. At end-1973 its outstanding loans amounted to Bt. 32.6
million.
3/   Commercial bank also offer branch banking facilities and a wide range
of other services.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Pawnshops and Credit Fonciers
25.       Pawnshops, which lend funds to private individuals against pledged
personal possessions, are operated by private individuals, municipalities and
by the Department of Public Welfare. They operate under the Pawnshop Act
of 1962 and are supervised by the Ministry of the Interior. No recent and
reliable information was available on their number or their role in the
financial system. However, a study carried out on financial institutions
in Thailand suggests that between 1969-73 they accounted for 1.5% of the
total credit provided by all financial institutions although their share
seemed to be gradually diminishing. As of the end of 1973 the total assets
of 202 registered pawnshops amounted to Bt. 790.5 million while their out-
standing credit extended amounted to Bt. 635.7 million.
26.       Credit foncier companies provide housing and real estate finance
in the form of mortgage lending, hire-purchase financing, or purchase with
the seller's right of redemption. As distinct from finance companies, credit
foncier companies cannot mobilize funds directly from the public and their
operations are regulated by the Ministry of Finance. As relative newcomers
on the financial scene most of these companies (of which there were 11 at
the end of 1973) are of modest size and at the end of 1973 accounted for
Bt. 229 million in credit extended (or less than 0.3% of the total). With
their mortgage financing bias credit foncier companies have the potential
for developing into the counterpart of the savings and loan associations in
the U.S. if permitted to mobilize private savings directly.
The Capital Market
27.       Thailand does not, as yet, have a well-developed capital market
for either government or corporate securities; in this respect it lags
behind the financial development of neighboring countries such as Malaysia,
Singapore, the Philippines and Taiwan. The new Securities Exchange of
Thailand (SET), established to fill this major void in the financial system,
began operations on April 30, 1975. Unlike its predecessor, the Bangkok
Stock Exchange 1/, SET has attracted strong Government support from the
outset and its legislation envisages substantial government involvement in
its operations. SET is under the general supervision of the Ministry of
Finance; four of its nine directors are appointed by the Cabinet. At pre-
sent its Chairman is the General Manager of IFCT. To encourage active in-
terest in the stock market the revenue code was amended to allow fairly
generous tax exemption and reduction privileges for income derived from
corporate dividends. This was done to reduce the disparities between the
1/   Founded in 1962 as a private company BSE never really got off the
ground.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
taxes previously levied on such income and interest income from commercial
bank deposits which is tax exempt. 1/
28.       It is as yet too early to assess definitively the performance of
the new exchange in the first nine-months of its existence. The uncertain
political climate, dampened investment and a general preference for liquidity
have perhaps thwarted the realization of earlier expectations. It would,
however, be premature to interpret the SET's slow start as a poor sign for
the future. On April 30, 1975 SET started off with 30 member firms and 15
listed securities, of which 9 were common stock. 2/ By December 1975, the
number of listed securities had increased to 27 while the number of common
share issues increased to 21. Between May 1, - December 31, 1975 turnover
on the SET totalled 8.9 million shares with a market value of Bt. 1.52
billion vs. Bt. 15 million for over-the-counter stock trading. Common
shares and government bonds were the most keenly traded securities.
29.       During 1975 there were seven new common stock issues, three being
those of commercial banks increasing their capital.  Most of these were
taken up by existing stockholders with a small portion of each being reserved
for sale to the public. In addition there were three rights issues of common
stock and two debenture issues (totalling Bt. 200 million) of which IFCT's
was one. The public share capital (amounting to Bt. 280 million) and deben-
ture issues were generally very successful with issues prior to August 1975
being fully sold or oversubscribed., After August a lull settled and some
issues floated after August had difficulties with acceptance, but they
achieved 90% rates of subscription nonetheless. Between November 1974-
September 1975 Government bond sales totalled Bt. 3 billion with 10-15 year
maturities and bearing interest rates of 8.5%.
1/   As the Bank's recent economic report points out:  "Tax provisions for
savings in Thailand have distorted the financial structure by placing
commercial banks in a much too favorable position vis-a-vis alternatives.
As a result, the growth of institutions engaged in medium and long-term
borrowing and lending has been stifled and the importance of the equity
market, life insurance and investment in provident funds has not been
permitted to emerge. The exemption of interest income on commercial bank
deposits from income tax, coupled with the lack of adequate tax incen-
tives for other types of savings, is principally responsible for the
diversion of a disproportionate share of financial savings to commer-
cial banks. The lop-sided growth of the banking system has also
forced companies to rely more heavily on bank finance than would have
otherwise been desirable. If a more balanced growth of the financial
system is to be fostered, major changes in the tax structure, and in
particular in the treatment of savings, need to be made."
2/   All the series of government bonds were also listed with SET.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
The Structure of Interest Rates
30.       The general interest rate structure in Thailand is governed by
commercial bank base deposit and prime lending rates which fluctuate in tune
with the banks' liquidity position and the Bank of Thailand's standard loan
rate. The movement of the overall structure is constrained by ceiling rates
set by the Bank of Thailand on commercial bank deposits (8%) and on bank
lending (15%). The key rate in the structure is the commercial banks' prime
overdraft rate (to preferred customers) which until 1975 was set by the Thai
Bankers' Association under the terms of the Inter Bank Agreement. The table
below gives an indicative comparison of interest rates which are relevant to
IFCT's and their movement in the past two years.
Interest Rates: 1974-75
1974                  1975
High     Low      High     Low      12/31
Commercial Banks
12 month deposits /a                  8.0%    8.0%      8.0%    8.0%      8.0%
"Prime" overdraft rate               12.5%   11.5%    12.5%   10.5%    11.5%
General lending rate                 15.0%   14.0%    15.0%   13.0%    14.5%
Bank of Thailand                     11.0%   10.0%    11.0%   10.0%    10.0%
Government Savings Bank
Discount rate                        10.0%   10.0%    10.0%   10.0%    10.0%
Savings account                       3.5%    3.5%      3.5%    3.5%      3.5%
12 month deposit                      7.0%    7.0%      8.0%    7.0%      8.0%
Savings bond                          4-6%    4-6%      4-6%    4-6%      4-6%
/a   3-6 months deposit rates were 6%; 6-12 month deposits were 7%.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
1974                  1975
High     Low      High      Low     12/31
Finance Companies
12 month deposits /a                 11.5%    9.0%    12.0%    10.5%    12.0%
12 month lending rate /b             16.0%   13.5%    16.8%    14.0%    16.0%
IFCT
Foreign currency loans /c             10.5%    9.5%    10.5%    10.5%    10.5%
Domestic currency loans               9.5%    9.5%    11.5%        9.5%    11.5%
Debenture rates                       --       _-        9.0%      9.0%      9.0%
Government Bonds                       8.5%    8.5%      8.5%      8.5%     8.5%
/a   It is very difficult to ascertain finance company lending rates because
of rapid fluctuations in their cost of funds. Deposits are restricted
to Bt. 50,000 or more and deposits for more than 12 months have indivi-
dually negotiated rates.
/b   Rates charged to prime industrial borrowers with good security coverage.
Effective rates range up to 22% for lower quality borrowers and up to
36% for consumer finance.
/c   Foreign exchange risk is shared by the Government and IFCT.
31.       As can be seen from the above the average prime lending rate over
the past two years has been fluctuating around 12% with a dip in 1975 when
commercial banks were, for a short time, excessively liquid. This base
rate has remained fairly stable since 1966 except between 1972-73 when it
dipped to 11.5%. The average deposit rates on the other hand were all in-
creased by 1% between 1974-75. Commiercial banks have traditionally operated
with an average 5-6% spread between deposit and lending rates. However,
their rates are managed and do not reflect the play of market forces. The
rates of finance companies more closely approximate the market and reflect
narrower spreads.
32.       From the viewpoint of savings mobilization it is difficult to
conclude that deposit rates are too low to encourage a sufficient level of
savings. Such savings have generally been high, increasing to a level of
25-26% of GNP in 1973-74 from about 21-22% between 1970-72 but with the
economic setbacks experienced from mid-1974 through 1975 savings fell to
about 23% of GNP. The proportion of financial savings could unquestionably
be higher and their channelization into longer term financial holdings con-
siderably increased. In this connection, however, improvements in the
efficiency of intermediation, the availability of a wider variety of instru-
ments and the filling of major gaps iin the financial system's structure may



ANNEX 3
Page 14
at this point, be more crucial than the level of deposit or yield rates. It
is true, however, that through the 1960's and early 1970's the average real
yield on financial savings has been around 3-4%. If it is assumed that this
real return is the minimum essential to sustain savings at their current
levels then it may be that, with projected rates of inflation of around
6-7%, deposit rates would need to be adjusted to around 10-11%. Nonetheless
it is noteworthy that even through years of high inflation 1973-74, when
real yields were highly negative, private savings remained constant and
their holdings in the form of financial assets actually increased.
33.       Using prime overdraft rates as an indicator, real lending rates have
been between 8-10% between 1965-73; they were negative in 1973 and 1974 and
were a real 8-9% in 1975. For encouraging investments in priority sectors
there is a strong implicit belief in government, financial and business circles
that preferential institutional interest rates are a necessary and effective
device (lending rates in agriculture vary between 6-10%, small industries
10%, agro-industries 9% etc.). Of course this ignores the fact that large
industries (including agro-industrial firms) borrow from finance companies
at between 14-16% and that in agriculture about 80% of the credit needs are
met by the unorganized market at rates of between 25-150%.
34.       One notable feature of the interest rate regime, however, is the
extent to which it penalizes the small individual saver and borrower and
favors the large well established corporate and individual savers and bor-
rowers. While in any market oriented system the latter would be favored
largely because of lower intermediation costs in servicing them, in Thailand
it would appear that the bias is excessive. A study conducted by the IMF in
1973 pointed out that greater intermediation efficiency needed to be promoted
and the distortions (of which the discrimination against small savers and
borrowers was one), introduced by commercial bank domination of the financial
system, reduced. To this end the DMF argued for abolition of the prescribed
minimum lending rate and of the tax exemption of bank deposits and government
bonds. It also pressed for market forces being allowed to play a larger role
in influencing interest rates. Discussions with the Thai authorities and the
IMF at that time did not result in acceptance of the IMF's principal recom-
mendations. Since then the successive governments which have emerged have
proved too short-lived to consider taking any sweeping action in this area.
The present Governor of the Bank of Thailand is, however, anxious to press for
needed fundamental changes in the financial system and in the government's
policies towards its continued development.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
THAILAND
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE COUPuRATION UF THAILAND
List of Shareholders as of
December 31, 1975
Percentage of
Foreign Shareholders                                                 No. of Shares            Total
International Finance Corporation/                                        8,000                5.33
U.S.A.
Manufacturers Hanover International Fin. Corp.                            5,499
Bank of America                                                           3,127
Chase Manhattan Bank                                                      2,691
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corp.                                    2,040
Wells Fargo Bank International Corp.                                      1,833
United California Overseas Investment Corp.                               1,833
17L023               11.35
Japan
The Mitsui Bank Ltd.                                                      4,907
The Bank of Tok,yo Ltd.                                                   4,906
The Fuji Bank, Limited                                                    2 000
_1__                  7.88
United Kingdom
The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corp.                                     4,702
The Chartered Bank                                                        3 916
5.74
Germany
Deutsche Gesellschaft Fur Wirtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit                  7,920
Commerzbank A.G.                                                          3,000                 7.28
10,920
Malaysia
United Malayan Banking Corp. Ltd.                                         4,509                3.01
France
Banque de L'Indochine                                                     2,671
Banque Francaise du Commerce Sxterieur                                    1,000
3,671                2.45
India
Bharat Overseas Bank Ltd.                                                 1,500                1.00
Taiwan
The International Commercial Bank of China                                1,291
China Underwriters Life & General Insurancie Co., Ltd.                    1,000
2,291                1.53
uther small foreign shareholders                                          2,680                1.78
Total Foreign                                                       71,025               47.35
Local Shareholders
Krung Thai Bank Ltd.                                                     24,592
Bangkok Bank                                                             13,031
The Bangkok Bank of Commerce Ltd.                                         3,768
The Bank of Asia for Industry and Commerce Ltd.                           2,550
The Asia Trust Bank                                                       2,500
The Bank of Ayudhya Ltd.                                                  2,024
1/  IFC sold in February 1975 its entire shareholding to Mitsui Bank of Japan.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Percentaee of
Local Shareholders                                                  No. of Shares           Total
The Thai Farmers Bank Ltd.                                               1,500
The Thai Danu Bank Ltd.                                                  1,488
Bangkok Metropolitan Bank Ltd.                                           1,488
The Siam City Bank Ltd.                                                  1,436
The Union Bank of Bangkok Ltd.                                           1,000
The South East Insurance Co., Ltd.                                       2,000
The Bangkok Insurance Co., Ltd.                                          1,500
The Union Insurance Co., Ltd.                                            1,000
Bangkok Nomura International Security Co.                                1,000
Bureau of Crown Property                                                 2,000
Mr. Chow Chowkwanyun                                                     1,010
Mr. Jootee Boonsong                                                      1,000
Shareholders holding less than 1,000 shares each                        14,088
Total Domestic                                                     78,975              52.65
Grand Total                                                       150 000             100.00
Distribution of Shareholders
Banks                                                                  103.453              68.96
Domestic                                          58,028
Foreign, with office in Thailand                   35,552               93,580              62.38
Foreign, without office in Thailand                                      9,873               6.58
Insurance Companies     -                                                8A650               5-77
Domestic                                           7,150                                     4.77
Foreign, with office in Thailand                    1,5C0                                    1.00
Investment Companies                                                     7,479               4.99
Domestic                                           1,525
Foreign, with office in Thailand                      255                1,780               1.19
Foreign, without office in Thailand                                      5,699               3.80
Other Companies                                                         15,493              10.32
Domestic                                           5,612
Foreign with office in Thailand                       128                5,740               3.82
Foreign without office in Thailand                                       9,753               6.50
1FC1/                                                                    8,o0o               5.33
Individuals                                                              6,945               4.63
Domestic                                           6,680
Foreign                                               265
Total                                                                  150 000             100.00
Domestic                                                                78,975              52.65
(of which Government-owned Krung Thai Bank Ltd.)                       (24,592)            (16.39)
Foreign                                                                 71,025              47.35
(of which located in Thailand)                                         (37,435)            (24.96)
1/   IFO sold, in February 1976, its entire shareholding to Mitsui Bank of Japan.
EAP Projects Department
March 2, 1976



ANNEX 5
THAILAND
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Board of Directors
As of December 31, 1975
Name                                  Date of Appointment or Election
1.   Mr. Sommai Hoontrakool                Appointed by Government as IFCT Director, December 1, 1973.
Elected as Board Chairman, December 3, 1973.
2.   Mr. Waree Bhongsvej                   Appointed as Director and General Manager by Board, March 1, 1975.
3.  Mr. Chamni Visvapolboon                Elected by General Meeting, April 30, 1975.  General Manager,
G.S. Steel.
4.   Mr. Banjurd Cholvijaran                Elected by General Meeting, April 23, 1974. General Manager,
Union Bank.
5.-  Mr. Chai Sophonpanich                 Elected by General Meeting, April 23, 1974. General Manager,
Bangkok Insurance Co.
6.   Mr. Bancha Lamsam                      Elected by General Meeting, April 4, 1973. General Manager, Thai
Farmers Bank.
7.   Mr. Thienchai Srivichit*              Electel by General Meeting, April 4, 1973. Assistant to GM, Krung
Thai Bank.
8.   Mr. W.D. Anderson                     Appointed by Board, November 26, 1975 to succeed Mr. J.L. Moulene,
(Representative of Foreign            electedi by General Meeting, April 30, 1975. Representative,Manu-
Shareholders Group 1)                 factureres Hanover Trust Company.
9.   Mr. J.R. Medley                       Appointed by Board, October 29, 1975 to succeed Mr. W.C.L. Brown,
(Representative of Foreign            appointed by Board, December 13, 1972 to succeed Mr. W.T. Watson,
Shareholders Group 2)                 elected by.eneral Meeting, April 7, 1972.  Manager, The Chartered
Bank.
10.  Mr. P.M. Ryan*                        Appointed by Board, December 13, 1972 to succeed Mr. Toshio Asanuma
(Representative of Foreign            appointed by Board, September 1, 1972 to succeed Mr. John C. Ling,
Shareholders Group 3)                 elected by General Meeting, April 7, 1972. Manager, The Hongkong &
Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Paragraph 3, Section 16 of IFCT Act governs the retirement by rotation of Directors as Follows:
"When all the Directors appointed under Sect:Lon 14 have retired, two Directors of the Corporation
shall retire each year by rotation; the Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in
office".
*    Member of the EXecutive Committee.
EAP Projects Department
February 27, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
THAILAND
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Policy Statement *
IFCT Board of Directors adopted the following policies to guide
IFCT's operations:
1.        IFCT is an investment institution designed to assist in the expan-
sion of industry in Thailand. To this end, it will pursue an aggressive
policy to promote, finance and otherwise assist private industry.
2.        IFCT will invest in enterprises which are expected to make a con-
tribution to the economic development of Thailand.
3.        It will make its investment decisions only on the basis of sound
investment criteria and standards.
4.        Subject to such criteria, it will select projects on as broad a
geographical basis as possible.
5.        IFCT Articles empower it to provide finance in any form it con-
siders appropriate to its clients and its own interest. IFCT will, as appro-
priate, make use of the entire range of forms of investment. It will give
particular attention to its clients' needs for equity financing and will
provide such equity to the extent consistent with sound financial practice.
6.**      It will not incur debt in excess of six times its equity, (equity
is defined as paid-in share capital plus reserves plus retained earnings)
determined in accordance with sound accounting practices. For the purpose
of calculating the debt/equity ratio, all debts in foreign currencies will
be valued in Baht using the par value at the time such calculation is made.
7.***     It will diversify its financing (except for temporary investment
of liquid funds in short-term securities) among different types of indus-
tries and different types of financing.
(a)  It will not normally commit to any single enterprise (in
whatever form) an amount greater than 25% of its equity
as defined in paragraph 6.
*    As adopted at the 65th IFCT Board Meeting on May 19, 1967.
**   As amended at the 162nd IFCT Board Meeting on April 30, 1974.
*** As amended at the 148th IFCT Board Meeting on June 27, 1973.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
(b) It will not commit to any single enterprise in the form
of equity more than 10% of its equity as defined in
paragraph 6.
(c) The total of its equity investments will not exceed its
equity.
(d) It will not normally make a loan of less than Baht 1,000,000.
8.        It will not seek to take a controlling interest in an enterprise
or any other interest which would give it primary responsibility for manage-
ment of an enterprise; and it will not take up more than 25% of the share of
any single enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitation, in any
case of jeopardy, it may take such action as it thinks fit to protect its
investment.
9.        It will conduct its operations in such manner as to assist in the
growth of a capital market in Thailand and to improve facilities for market-
ing shares and securities, and will revolve its own portfolio whenever it
can do so on satisfactory terms. In selling an investment, it will pay due
regard not only to its own interests, but also to the interests of other
participants in such investment, and to the interests of the others who have
directly invested in the enterprise in which it has invested.
10.       It will finance undertakings which are soundly managed and which
appear, on careful economic, financial and engineering investigation, to be
economically viable; and it will carefully watch the operation of the enter-
prises it finances and it will promptly make available to them constructive
and remedial advice wherever requisite.
11.       To build and strengthen its own management and staff as well as to
assist clients in the formulation and execution of their projects, it will
rapidly build an effective organizaition and develop an adequate staff, inclu-
ding financial and economic analysis, engineering, accountancy and legal
services.
12.       In accordance with normal business practice, IFCT will endeavour
to obtain adequate security for the loans it provides. However, its decisions
to invest will be based on its judgement regarding the prospective profit-
ability of its clients' enterprises.
13.       It will levy charges for iLts loans financing and services which,
together with earnings on investments, will allow the accumulation of reserves
and the payment to its shareholders, in due course, of a satisfactory return
on their investment. It will build and maintain reserves consistent with
sound financial practice; these will include reserves for bad debts and in-
vestments and, in addition, legal reserve to strengthen its equity. To this
end, it will set aside at least 30% of its annual profits consisting of
(a) 25% as reserves for bad debts and investments until such reserves have



ANNEX 6
Page 3
been built up to 20% of its loan and investment portfolio and (b) 5% as legal
reserve until it has been built up to 10% of the paid-in capital.
14.*      The foreign exchange risk on IFCT's external borrowings, which IFCT
must repay in foreign exchange, will be covered:
(a) for Government guaranteed and qualifying non-Government
guaranteed loans, under the Foreign Exchange Risk
Agreement between IFCT and the Ministry of Finance
dated April 26, 1974, or,
(b) in case the foreign exchange risk is not covered by
the said Agreement, IFCT will pass that risk to its
clients or will find other suitable means to cover it.
15.       The Board of Directors will use its best efforts to prevent any one
person or company, or group of affiliated persons or companies from gaining
effective control of IFCT.
EAP Projects Department
March 1, 1976
*    As amended at the 162nd IFCT Board Meeting on April 30, 1974.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THAI]LAND
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
IFCT's Operations
A.   Lending Operations
1.        Operational Trends.  As shown in Table 1, FY75 was a banner year
for IFCT with its lending operations surpassing even the record level of
FY74. In FY75, 54 new loans for Bt. 785.9 million were approved 1/ raising
cumulative loan approvals since IFCT's inception in 1960 to Bt. 2,573.1 mil-
lion (301 loans). IFCT's aggregate loan approvals in the last two years,
(FY74 and FY75) amount to Bt. 1,489.7 million which account for about 58%
of total approvals since its inception, a clear indication of IFCT's emer-
gence as an important institution on the Thai financial scene. Loan commit-
ments and disbursements kept pace with the increased level of approvals and
amounted to Bt. 725.1 million and Bt. 540.9 million respectively in FY75.
As compared to FY74, commitments in FY75 show a 36.5% increase and disburse-
ments 37.6%. As of December 31, 1975 loans outstanding amounted to Bt. 1,340.8
million representing 146 loans to 120 borrowers. Loans outstanding increased
by about 46% by amount over year-end FY74 and 34% by number.
2.        Many diverse factors have contributed to the jump in IFCT's lending
operations in FY74-75. The main ones are: (a) IFCT's competitive advantage
in terms of its interest rate which is about 1.5% to 2% lower than the effec-
tive rate on alternative sources of fEinancing; (b) pressure on the liquidity
of the commercial banks; (c) a 30-40%, rise in the capital cost of projects
due to inflation; (d) IFCT's foreign exchange risk sharing arrangement with
the Treasury which absolved IFCT's sub-borrowers from the exchange risk on
foreign currency loans; and (e) growing realization among Thai entrepreneurs
of the merits of borrowing from IFCT on a long-term basis as opposed to the
short-term roll-over financing providLed by commercial banks. Apart from
the liquidity position of commercial banks and lower rates of cost infla-
tion, these factors are of a permanernt nature and should enable IFCT to
continue rapidly building up its loan portfolio.
Features of Lending Operations
3.        Domestic vs. Foreign Currency Loans.  Of the total loans approved
by IFCT between inception and December 31, 1975, about 40% were domestic
currency loans and 60% were foreign currency (Annex 7, Table 1). Up to the
end of FY71, the split was 50:50, but subsequently, the rate of approval of
foreign currency loans has outpaced that of baht loans. In FY75, 39 domestic
1/   Net of cancellations.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
currency loans 1/ were approved totalling Bt. 216.4 million, a 50% increase
in number over FY74 but a 27% decline in amount. In PY74 IFCT approved
five exceptionally large domestic currency loans totalling Bt. 212.7 million
(averaging Bt. 42.5 million) which accounted for about 72% of total domestic
currency loan approvals in the year; by contrast, the five largest domestic
currency loans approved in FY75 totalled only Bt. 87.3 million (averaging
Bt. 17.5 million) and accounted for only 40% of total approvals. 2/
4.        Between FY71 and FY74, Special Yen and Japanese Exim Bank tied
credits accounted for a major share (64%) of foreign currency loan approvals.
In 1975, however, the trend was reversed and Special Yen and Japanese Exim
Bank credit approvals represented only 18% of total foreign currency loan
approvals. This reduction was due to the increased availability of untied
funds, mainly from the Bank and ADB, and the increased cost of Japanese pro-
curement. Nonetheless, because of sizeable approvals in the past, these
tied credits accounted for 22% of total loan approvals and 36% of foreign
currency loan approvals as of December 31, 1975. Although the baht is fully
convertible, IFCT follows a policy of matching loan and procurement currencies.
The use of domestic currency funds to finance imports has been permitted only
in exceptional cases and has, so far, involved negligible amounts.
5.        Size of Loans.  The average size of loans committed by IFCT in
FY75 declined to Bt. 13.4 million from Bt. 15.6 million in FY74 (Annex 7,
Table 2). As compared to FY74, there was an increase from 7 to 11 in the
number of large loans 3/ committed in FY75 but their average size was con-
siderably lower (Bt. 35.5 million) than in FY74 (Bt. 48.7 million). 4/  Prior
to FY71 IFCT did not finance any large loans; most of its loans were below
Bt. 10 million. Since then the number of such loans committed by IFCT has
steadily increased. This increase notwithstanding IFCT's regular loans 5/
1/   12 loans (Bt. 62.2 million) were made exclusively in domestic currency
while 27 loans (Bt. 154.2 million) were made in combination with foreign
currency loans (Bt. 231.8 million).
2/   In FY74 these loans were made to:  Thai Central Chemical Co. Ltd. (Bt. 91.1
million); Royal Mosaic Export Co. Ltd. (Bt. 40.0 million); Thai Kurabo Co.
Ltd. (Bt. 35.0 million); Phuket Island Co. Ltd. (Bt. 21.6 million); and
Bangkok Shipbuilding and Engineering Works (Bt. 25.0 million); and in
FY75 to Thai Soon Lee Co. Ltd. (Bt. 13.7 million); Sanyo Universal Elec-
tric Co. Ltd. (Bt. 22.3 million); Thai Glass Industries Co. Ltd. (Bt. 14.1
million); Thonburi Textile Mills Ltd. (Bt. 25.0 million), and Bangkok
Edible Oil Mills Ltd. (Bt. 12.2 million).
3/   Loans exceeding Bt. 20 million.
4/   Large loans committed in FY74 ranged between Bt. 23-91 million; in
FY 75 they ranged between Bt. 20-55 million.
5/   Loans up to Bt. 20 million.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
still account for about 80% (in FY74 and FY75) of total loan commitments
and represent the hard core of IFCT's financing. A more realistic indicator
of IFCT's regular business is the average loan size excluding large loans
which has increased from Bt. 4.3 million as of the end of FY72 to Bt. 7.0
million in FY74 and to Bt. 7.8 million in FY75, the increase being attri-
butable to cost inflation. On a cumulative basis, as of December 31, 1975,
the average size of all loans committed was Bt. 7.9 million and Bt. 5.2 mil-
lion (large loans excluded). As of the same date, 40% of the total loan
amount committed was for 24 loans (or 8% of the total). Loans exceeding
Bt. 10 million (there are 64) now account for 66% of the total amount com-
mitted and for 22% of the total.
6.        Duration of Loans.  Loans committed in FY75 generally had shorter
maturities than those in FY74. As Annex 7, Table 2 shows, the average maturity
of loans in FY75 was 6.0 years by number vs 6.2 years in FY74 and 6.4 years by
amount vs 6.6 years in FY74. In FY75 there was no loan with a maturity of
less than 2 years or more than 10 years. About 85% of the loans, both by
number and amount, had maturities ranging from 4-8 years. Between FY73-75,
the maturity of loans has fluctuated. The average maturity declined in FY73
from a historical average of 5.6 years by number and 6.5 years by amount to
5.2 years and 5.9 years respectively before falling again in 1975. Conse-
quently, on a cumulative commitments basis there was almost no change in the
average maturity of loans between December 31, 1972 and 1975; by number it
changed slightly from 5.6 to 5.7 years while by amount it remained unchanged
at 6.5 years. Sub-loans under the previous IBRD loan have had terms repre-
sentative of all IFCT loans. Under the proposed loan grace and maturity per-
iods of sub-loans are expected to be stretched out by 1-2 years. IFCT's loan
maturities are, by and large, short and rigidly based on projected cash-flows
without allowing sufficiently for a margin of error. This practice causes
IFCT to run the unnecessary risk of default by its borrowers. IFCT's manage-
ment accepts this view and is willing to set amortizaton schedules of sub-
loans more realistically in future.
7.        Geographic Distribution.  IFCT's loans continue to remain concentra-
ted in the Central Region 1/. In 1975 about 82% of the number of projects and
90% of the amount committed (Annex 7, Table 2) were in the Central Region (of
which the Greater Bangkok area accounted for over 50%, both by number and
amount). This distribution is much the same as in the past. Outside the
Central Region, IFCT's investment in the Eastern and Southern Regions has, in
the last four years, increased noticeably. In the four year period FY72-75,
IFCT committed loans totalling Bt. 143.3 million for 18 projects in the Eastern
and Southern Regions. This represents over 50% of the total number and over
1/   Including the Greater Bangkok area.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
75% of the total amount of loans committed in these regions on a cumulative
basis as of December 31, 1975. There have not been significant increases in
loans for the North Eastern and Northern Regions where, during the same period,
only 7 loans for Bt 22.8 million were committed. The heavy concentration
of IFCT's financing in the Central Region parallels the concentration of in-
dustry in the area. 1/ As a matter of basic policy, IFCT's management has
tried its best to persuade prospective entrepreneurs to locate their pro-
jects in areas outside the Central Region but without much success.
8.        The major inhibiting factors to location of industrial projects
in areas other than the Central Region are: (a) the absence of other major
markets for linkage industries; (b) the availability of industrial infra-
structure on relatively cheaper terms than in any other area; (c) the
absence of adequate facilities for transportation; (d) the proximity to the
only seaport in the country; (e) the government's policies which, in the past,
have not provided a strong incentive for geographical dispersal of new indus-
trial investments; and (f) the relatively late stage at which IFCT's own
involvement in projects begins which prevents it from having much say in
project location (paragraph 14).
9.        IFCT's management has recently taken three major steps in an
effort to alleviate the concentration of its financing. First, it has decided
to lend its domestic currency funds at a concessional interest rate for agro-
based projects which are generally located outside the Central Region. Second-
ly, a separate section in the Planning Department has been set-up for develop-
ing projects with high economic priority in industrially less congested areas.
Thirdly, in FY75 IFCT opened its first branch at Haat Yai in the South and two
more branches have been opened in FY76 in the North and Northeast. These
branches will primarily focus on introducing IFCT's services to local entre-
preneurs and promoting new business in these areas. These steps are expected
to assist greater regionalization of IFCT financing but, in view of the other
major factors beyond IFCT's control, no dramatic change in its geographical
distribution can realistically be expected in the near future.
10.       New vs Expansion Financing.  Historically, IFCT's total loan appro-
vals have been evenly split between their use for expansion of existing facil-
ities and establishment of new plants. In FY75, out of 54 loans approved, 29
loans (53.7% of total) amounting to Bt. 379.8 million (48.3% of total) were
for new plants. Total investment in these new projects was Bt. 1.46 billion
of which about 50% (Bt. 746.6 million) was in four large projects (a sugar
mill, a grain silo, a car assembly plant and a maritime project). In compari-
son to their size IFCT's investment in these four large projects at Bt. 116.0
million was relatively small, representing only 30.5% of total loans approved
for new projects (by amount) and 15.5% of the total investment in these pro-
jects. Of the 29 new projects approved, 23 (or 79%), including the three
1/   See Annex 2.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
large projects, were located in the Central Region 1/ and accounted for 83.4%
of total loans approved for new projects and 76.9% of their total investment.
New projects in the Central Region 1/ were established in a wide range of in-
dustries. Of the remaining projects, the Eastern and Southern Regions account-
ed for two each and the Northern and North Eastern Regions for one each. In
FY75, IFCT approved loans aggregating Bt. 24.7 million for three new hotels
which accounted for IFCT's total nesw loan approvals in the Southern and North
Eastern Regions.
11.       Industrial Distribution.  IFCT's loan portfolio is well diversified
with no concentrated exposure in any industry. On a commitment basis the
largest recipients of IFCT's loans are the intermediate goods industries
which received 36% (by amount) of all loans committed, followed by consumer
goods industries, 29%, capital goods industries, 18%, and miscellaneous in-
dustries 17% (Annex 7, Table 3). There has been only a marginal change in
the industrial distribution of IFCG"s loan commitments over the past three
years; the share of consumer goods industries increased from 22% as of Dec-
ember 31, 1972 to 29% as at year-end FY75 and that of miscellaneous indus-
tries declined from 23 to 17%. Four specific industries -- textiles, food,
chemicals and non-metallic minerals -- absorbed about 66% of IFCT's total
loan commitments by amount during the FY73-75 period and 56% by number. Their
share in FY75 commitments was 61% by amount and 49% by number. Most of the
projects in the food, textiles and non-metallic mineral industries are export
oriented while those in the chemical industries will produce mainly for the
domestic market. Loans committed by IFCT for textile industry in 1975 related
to investments in specialized product lines, most of which were unaffected by
the international depression this industry experienced in FY74-75. Wood pro-
ducts, paper and paper products, and rubber and rubber product industries,
which are all based on local raw materials and appear to have strong poten-
tial for further development, have been conspicuous by their declining share
in IFCT's total loan commitments (from 10% as of the end of FY72 to 6% as of
the end of FY75). IFCT intends to attack this problem through intensive
project development work to be carried out by the new project promotion sec-
tion (paragraph 9).
Loans Financed Under IBRD Loan No. 992-TH
12.       As of February 29, 1976, I]FCT had committed a total of $10.6 mil-
lion under Loan No. 992-TH for 18 projects 2/ leaving an uncommitted balance
of $1.4 million (Annex 7, Table 4). Total investment in these 18 projects
amounted to Bt. 1.86 billion of which IFCT was expected to finance Bt 333.1
million or 18%. IBRD funds accounted for 63% of IFCT's financing for these
projects or 11% of total project investment. The two largest sub-projects 3/
accounted for 42.6% of the total amount committed under the IBRD loan. Of
1/   Including the Greater Bangkok area.
2/   Excluding two sub-projects which were subsequently withdrawn by IFCT.
3/   These projects are:  Bangkok Weaving Mills, Ltd. $2.44 million and
Mahaguna Sugar Refinery, $2.68 million.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
these sub-projects, 12 (67%) were new, and an equal number were joint ventures
with foreign partners. Sugar refining ($3.7 million for two sub-projects),
textiles ($3.4 million for five sub-projects), and chemical industries
($1.8 million for three sub-projects) have, so far, been the main beneficiaries,
sharing over 83% of the total IBRD loan amount committed so far. Other indus-
tries which received IBRD funds were: (i) steel products; (ii) plastics;
(iii) ceramics; (iv) marble tiles; and (v) electrical appliances. Of the 18
sub-projects 13 are export oriented and are estimated to generate (at full
production), net incremental exports of Bt. 1.83 billion ($91.5 million
equivalent) per annum. The economic rate of return (ERR), was calculated
for 13 sub-projects and ranged between 15% to 80% (sugar refining). The
internal financial rate of return (FRR) calculated for all 18 sub-projects,
ranged between 14 to 41% (nylon canvas project). Altogether these 18 sub-
projects are expected to create 7,300 new jobs with an average capital in-
vestment of Bt. 252,000 (US$12,600 equivalent) per new job.
Foreign Joint Ventures
13.       Of the 54 loans approved by IFCT in FY75, 22 loans (41%) totalling
Bt. 346 million (44% of total amount approved) were made to companies with
some foreign equity investment. IFCT has extended 39 loans (41% of total)
to joint ventures in the last two years (FY74-75) aggregating Bt. 780 million
(52% of the total amount approved). The extent of foreign shareholding in
joint ventures financed by IFCT in FY75 ranged from 3-75%, the predominant
source of foreign investment being Japan (in 10 out of the 22 cases). Out
of 22 joint ventures financed by IFCT in FY75, 12 were for new projects
falling under various industrial categories (of which all were in the Central
Region). In 17 of these sub-projects the foreign partners had provided tech-
nical know-how (11 out of the 12 new joint ventures were recipients of for-
eign technical know-how). Moreover, 13 of the non-joint venture loans ap-
proved by IFCT (amounting to Bt. 175.0 million) involved foreign technical
collaboration.
"Late-Comer Operations" I/
14.       The extent of IFCT's "late-comer operations" increased in FY75
when IFCT approved 29 loans (53.7% of total loans) totalling Bt. 423.9 mil-
lion (53.9% of total amount) for projects in which proponents had placed
firm orders for machinery and equipment prior to approaching IFCT. The
ratio of such loans in FY74 was 30.9% by number and 48.1% by amount. A
liquidity squeeze on the commercial banks, forcing them to back out of
their earlier commitments, coupled with the project proponents' anxiety
to seek protection -dgainst rapid rises in machinery prices 2/ are the two
1/   Meaning cases where firm orders for machinery were placed and/or con-
tracts for construction awarded before the project proponents applied
to IFCT for financing.
2/   The baht is freely convertible and project proponents often place
orders for imported machinery with overdraft financing by commercial
banks.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
main reasons explaining this sharp rise. IFCT's preferential interest rate
has also provided an incentive (albeit a limited one), to entrepreneurs who
have already financed projects with overdrafts to approach IFCT at a late
stage of project implementation. IFCT fully appreciates that in such cases
it loses the advantage of influencing project design and its scope for
playing a meaningful developmental role is limited. Nonetheless, IFCT
has, so far, followed an "open-door" policy for "late-comer" customers which
it justifies on the ground that its financing decision is taken purely on
the basis of project's viability and competitiveness of machinery prices
irrespective of the relatively advanced stage of implementation. In the
context of Thailand's economic and financial environment and prevailing
business practices, IFCT's approach seems quite realistic but has the un-
fortunate consequence of encouraging project proponents not to consult IFCT
in the early stages of project formulation. In fact IFCT's Board of late
has been concerned with the growing number of IFCT's "late-comer operations"
and in a meeting held in January 1976 has resolved not to extend its finan-
cial assistance for such operations in other than exceptional cases with
clear, valid, and special justification. The Board also decided that appli-
cations for such operations should first be cleared with the Board prior to
their detailed appraisal. IFCT should not be compelled to go the extreme
of completely closing its doors to "late-comers" as it might prove detrimental
to some sound projects worthy of IFCT's support on economic and financial
grounds. It is therefore recommended that IFCT's Board's decision should be
treated as a supplement to IFCT's Policy Statement. The Bank should accept
the resolution as a sufficient indication that, in future, IFCT will not,
as a rule, finance such operations. At the time of negotiations for the pro-
posed loan, the Bank reaffirmed that IFCT's Board's decision was being
implemented in letter and in spirit.
B.     Equity Investments
15.       In comparison to earlier years, particularly FY74 when no new trans-
action was approved, IFCT was quite active in the equity investment field in
FY75.  Four new equity investments totalling Bt. 24.6 million were approved,
of which Bt. 7.8 million was disbursed for two projects -- Thai Feed Indus-
try Co., Ltd. (Bt. 2.0 million) whicti is a Thai-Japanese Joint venture
and The Mutual Fund Co., Ltd. (Bt. 5.8 million). After these two new invest-
ments, IFCT's total equity investment portfolio as of December 31, 1975 stood
at Bt. 8.2 million in four companies as detailed in (Annex 7, Table 5). As
of the same date, undisbursed approvals for equity investments amounted to
Bt. 31.8 million relating to four companies including two approvals made in
1973 (Thai Pulp Co., Ltd., and Thai Castor Oil Co., Ltd.) which has so far
failed to materialize. IFCT is, however, hopeful that these projects will
eventually reach the stage of implementation. The sudden spurt in IFCT's
equity investment operations in FY75 notwithstanding, the prospects of IFCT
quickly building-up a strong equity portfolio are not too bright. In those
projects which meet with IFCT's fairly tough investment criteria, the project
proponents neither need nor welcome IFCT's equity participation. There are



ANNEX 7
Page 8
no tangible fiscal incentives in Thailand to encourage wider public partici-
pation in industrial ownership. On the other hand participation in very high-
risk projects would not be in IFCT's interest. Project proponents also resist
IFCT's participation in equity for fear of compulsion for full disclosure of
true financial results. Under prevailing circumstaces IFCT's equity partici-
pation is also unlikely to significantly influence or attract investment by
foreign investors. IFCT's management fully recognizes its handicaps in
developing a sound investment portfolio which satisfactorily maintains the
delicate balance between security and risk. It has adopted a policy of
"friendly persuasion" for acquiring equity participation in companies, with
good prospects of success, that approach IFCT for loans. This policy is a
sound one.
C.   Syndication
16.       So far, IFCT has syndicated only three of its loans of which one
(Thai Pulp Co., Ltd.) still remains uncomitted. No syndication was done in
FY74 and FY75. IFCT's role in this field has been very limited principally
because of: (a) the different basis of decision making employed by collateral
oriented commercial banks and finance companies and by IFCT; and (b) the ab-
sence of regular long-term lending institutions in Thailand. With the pros-
pective increase in IFCT's involvement in the financing of large projects
(paragraph 5) it should be able to play a more active role in syndicating its
loans than in the past. A breakthrough in this area would, however, be pos-
sible only when commercial banks recognize the merits of IFCT's project ap-
praisal approach and delegate this function to IFCT before making commitments.
D.   Guarantees
17.       As of December 31, 1975 IFCT's outstanding guarantees stood at
Bt. 59.7 million (Bt. 49.7 million in 1974). These guarantees covered:
(i) letters of credit opened for the import of machinery and equipment to
be financed by IFCT; (ii) the repayment of principal and interest on deben-
tures; and (iii) payment of import duties. IFCT issues its guarantees only
to existing clients and restricts them to cover only IFCT financed projects.
Guarantees are, therefore, not a very important feature of IFCT's operations;
they represent an extension of a financial service to simplify matters for
clients.
EAP Projects Department
March 18, 1976



ANNEX
Table i
THAILAND
THE INDUS'TIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Sumuary of Loans Operations FY72-75
(Bt. Million)
Up to End                                             Cumulative
1971     1972      1973       1974      1975        to End 1975
Loan Approvals (Gross)
Domestic currency                     485.98     79.30      38.77    307.93    219.94      1,131.92
Special Yen and EBim                   89.73     83.07      59.36    235.24    104.21        571.61
Foreign currency1'                    332.74    109.38    122.36    208.28    493.57       1,266.33
Total Amount                     908.45    271.75    220.49    751.45    817.72       2,969.8
No. of loans                    (193)    r T5        1T6)        W44)      56)          3347
Loan Approvals (Net)
Domestic currency                     406.10     52.84      23.46    296.26    216.35        995.01
Special Yen andlExim                   89.73     83.07      59.36    235.24    104.21        571.61
Foreign currency%y                    312.58     27.34      28.88    172.35    465.34      1,006.49
Total Amount                     80.41    163.25:/  111.70    703.85    785.90        2,573.11
No. of loans                    (176)      (18)       (12)      (41)       (54)        (301)
Loan Commitments
Domestic currency                     389.72     67.70      18.10    217.41    256.62        949.55
Special Yen and Exim                   69.91     93.67      47.82    163.65    156.21        531.26
Foreign currency                      293.33     40.13      26.40    149.78    312.23        821.87
Total Amount                     752.96    201.50      92.32    530.84    725.06      2,302.68
No. of loans                    (172)      (19)       (11)      (34)       (54)        (290)
Loan Disbursements
Domestic currency                     365.09     48.00      32.65    197.52    153.77        797.03
Special Yen and Exim                   22.00     97.61      45.81    152.33    147.23        464.98
Foreign currency                      271.31      39.52     17.71     43.25    239.95        611.74
Total Amount                     658.40    185.13      96.17    393.10    540.95      1,873.75
Loan Repayments
Domestic currency                     148.43      35.79     32.56     24.74      44.59       286.11
Special Yen and Exi.                          --             8.91     14.38     43.57         66.86
Foreign currency                       37.76      26.91     40.03                31.97       180.01
Total Amount                     186.19     62.70      81.50     82.46    120.13        532.98
Loan Outstandings
Domestic currency                     216.66    228.87    228.96    401.74    510.92         510.92
Special yen and Exim                   22.00    119.61    156.51    294.46    398.12         398.12
Foreign currency                      233-5E    246.16    223.84    223.75   1431.            43Lt
Total Amount                     472.21    594.64    609.31    1.9   1,340.77 1,340.77
= =W         =        WCM= 
No. of loans                     (98)      (99)       (95)     (109)      (146)        (146)
1/ The par of selling rate of exchange at the time of disbursements has been used for the loan
amounts disbursed, and the par rate of e2xchange quoted by the Bank of Tha3and on 12/31/75 has
been used for undisbursed amounts.
2/   Includes one loan of Bt. 3.0 million approved in 1972 which was cancelled in 1974 but again
revived in 1975.
EAP Projects Depatment
March 1, 1976



THE INDUS1'RIAL FINANCE CORCIATION OF THAILAND
Analysis of Loan Comnitments bv Sizc. Duration antd Geoaraphical Distribution FY73-75
(Paoom,t in BIt. Million)
As of December 31, 1972                 1973                          1974                           1975                    Cumulative to Dec. 31. 1975
4             a Aount    X     No.-1, /. I  Amount   %       No./          Amount  ',        No.  7.    Aount                    . No.-  X   Aount    X
Size (Bt. in miltion)
llp to 2. 0                                                   87    46    95.27       10       2    18    2.34        2      2     6      3.10       1       7    13    10.67        1       98    34       111.38      5
over 2.0 to 4.0                                               31    16    91.18        9       3    28    9.74       11     4    12    13.51         2      10     18    33.43       5       48    16       147.86      6
Over 4.0 to 6.0                                               23    12   114.34       12       2    18   10.96       12      6    18    30.32        6       3      6    13.27       2       34    12       168.89      7
Over 6.0 to 1O.0                                              25    13   191.61       20       1      9    9.20      10    10    29    83.15        16      10    18    83.36       11       46    16       367.32     16
over 10.0 to 20.0                                             20    10   311.30       33       2    18   21.72       24      5    14    59.95       11      13    24   193.30       27       40    14       586.27     26
Over 10.0                                                      5      3   150.76      16       1      9   38.36    41        7    21   340.81   _64        11    21   391.03       54        24      8      920.96    40
Total                                                  191   100   954.46    100        11   100   92.32   100    34   100   530.84   100             54   100   725.06    100        290   100   2,302.68   100
Avore   taie of loans                                                        5.0                            8.4                          15.6                            13.4                                 7.9
Average sise of loans (below Bt. 20 millton)                                 4.3                            5.4                            7.0                             7.8                                5.2
Duration (Years)
Ulp to 2                                                       1      1      2.00      -       -    -        -       -       2      6    72.56      14       1      2      1.64     -         4      1       76.20       3
Over 2 to 4                                                   33    17    43.66        5       1      9    5.64       6      1      3     2.00      -        2      4      2.66      1       37    13        53.96      2
Over 4 to 6                                                   84    44   338.44       35       8     73   37.29      40    10    29    95.61        18      26    48   299.57       41      128    44       770.91     33
Over 6 to 8                                                   57    30   394.51    41          2    18   49.39       54    17    50   174.11        13      20    37   315.88       44       96    33       934.15    41
Over 8 to 10                                                  14      7   141.13      15       -    -                -       3      9   154.01      29       5      9   105.31      14       22      8      400.45     18
Over 10                                                        2      1    34.66       4          -      -           -       1      3   _32.35       6       -      -       -       -         3      1       67.01      3
Total                                                  191   100   954.46   100         11   100   92.32    100    34   100   530.84   100            54   100   725.06    100        290   100   2.302.68   100
wleighted sverage maturity - by project                                                                     6.0 2                                                                                           __5.7
- bv amount                                    6.5                            5.9                            6.6                             6.4                                6.5
Gcographical Distribution
Greater Bangkok 2/                                           103     54   489.76      51       3    27   13.23       15    16    47   311.15        59      28    52   370.07       51      150    52   1,184.21       51
Central                                                       43     22   324.20      34       4    37   63.56       69      8    24   158.29       30      16    30   285.86       39       71    24       831.91     36
East                                                           8      4    45.14       5       2    18   13.19       14      4    12    24.60        5       5      9    14.41       2       19      7       97.34      4
North East                                                    15      8    39.07       4       1      9    1.15       1     4    12    18.70         3       -      -       -       -        20      7       58.92      3
North                                                         13      7    39.57       4       1      9    1,19       1      -      -       -        -       1      2      1.76      1       15      5       42.52      2
South                                                          9      5    16.72       2       -    _ -               -      2      5    18.10       1       4      7    52.96       7       15      5       87.78      4
Total                                                  191   100   954.46   100         11   100   92,32   100    34   100   530.84   100             54   100   725.06    100        290   100   2,302.68   100
I   Number of loans.
2' Greater BAngkok inclu.des Bangkok, Thonburi, Nontaburi, and Saautprakarn
EAP Projects Department
March 1, 1976



TRIAILAOID
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE, CORPORATION OE THAILAND
Loan Co-citmnts and Outstanding Loan   by Industry as at December  31, 1975
(A.-suto in Naht Million)
I/                                                                                                                             2/
loans Coeitted                                                                                                              Loan    utstanding_
Cossaltive Des. 31, 1972                           1973                                    1974                                  1975                      Csslative Den. 371.  1975                  As at D.c. 31. D975
lyon of Industry                           lA~~~~~~N,.  I    Assent                 o.      7       Am-unt        1      No.       7.      Amout        %       No.       7.     Aeouet        7       No.       7.      eAn-t        7.      No.       7.        o.unt      7.
.Consumer Geeds Iodustries
Food                                                 15         8      122.64        13      3        27       14.34       16      10        30     151.18        28       7        13      43.62         6      35        12     331.78        14      25        17     247.27        18
Tebaes                                                 9         5      19.11         2      -         -         -          -      -          -          -        -       -         -          -         --       9         3       19.11         1      2         1        3.15        0
Textiles                                             30        16       54.33         6      1         9        4.97        5       5        14      87.14        16       7       13      128.60        18     43         15     275.04        12      17        12     201.31        15
Furniture and fietuces                                1         0        4.25        0      --        --         --        --      --        --         --        --       2        4       19.43         2       3         1       22.68        1       2         1       15.65        1
Feinting and pebliahing                               1         0        6.64        1L    -- -                  --        _-    _--.       -           _-       _-_       1         2      12.31         2       2         1       19.15      _1        2         1.       8.43        1
Sub-total                                      56        29     206.97        22       4        36       19.31       21      15       44      238.32        44     17        32      203.16        28     92        32      667.76        29     49        32      475.81        35
II.   Intacadiate  Geeds Indastrien
Weed and cork                                        51          6      49.40         5      1         9        3.76         4      1         3       10.53        2       3         6        0.70         1     16         6       71.91         3     10         7       38,16         3
Paper and paper products                              6         3       38.06        4      -                    -         --       -        --          -        --       1         2        8.22        1       7         2      46.28         2       3         2       18.23         1
Rubber sod rsbber predeets                            5         3        9.11         1     -         -           -        -        -        -           -        --       1         2        120         0       6         2       10.31         1      3         2        2.36        0
Chasicals                                             22       12       68.651        7       1        9       38.36       41       2         6       96.08       18       7        12     120.45        17      32        11     323.54        14      13         9      170.56       13
Roc-aetallin  mineral                                18        10      171.33        18      3        27       191.21      20       2         6       46.21        9       6        ii     142.14        20      29         I0~  377.89         16      21        14     250.41        19
Petroleum  prodssts                                    1        8        0.80        0      --        --         -          -       1         3        4.46        1       1         2       3.49         8       3         1        8.75        0       2         1        6.88        1
Sub-total                                      63        34      332.35       35       1        45       59.65       65       6        18     157.28        3D     19        35      284.20        39     93        32      638.68        36     52         33     486.62        37
Basic  aet.ls                                         4         2       27.27         3     -         --         -         --       -         -          -        -       -         -          -         --       4         1       27.27         1     -         --                    -
Metal predoete                                        12         6      97.54        10      2        19       13.16       14       3         9       59.14       11       6        11      43.24          6     23         8      213.08         9     12         8      126.22        10
Machinery except eleotri-l 1 mahinery                  2         1       4.24         0      -        --         -         --       -        -          -         -       -         -           -        --       2         1        4.24         0     ----                           -
Electrical machiney                                  14          7      40.19         4     -         --         -         --       2         6       22.12        4       3         6      60.71         8      19         7     123.02          5      6         5       59.51         4
Transport eqsipne.nt                                  5         3       28.31         3                                            ---L-  -     3      3.70        1       1         2      25.00         4       7         2_      57.01        3       2         1       26.86         2
Sub-total                                      37        19      197.55       20       2        19       13.16       14       6        18      84.96        16     10        19      128.95        18     55        19      424.62        18     20        14      214.59        16
IV.  His...llneeu. ledentriss
Ocean and cosalsatrfishing                             1         0      13,66         1     -         --         -         --       1         3        2.00        0       1         2       10.00        2       3         i       25.66         1      2         1       16.55         1
Liveatecbhredi.g                                     --        -           --        -      --         -          -        -        1         3        8.10        2       1         2        1.76         I      2         1        9.86         1      1         1        5.14         1
lIntel                                               10          5      66.06         7     -         --          -        --       1         3        4.70        1       3         5      45.55          6     14         5      116.31         5      9         6       60.06         4
Transport etc.                                       12          7      91.53        Sf     -          -         -          -       -        -           -        -        1         2      34.75         5      13         5     126.29         5       7         5       43.67         3
Co-strurtin                                            1         0       6.88         1     -         --         -         --       -        --          -        --      -         -           -        --       1         0        6.88         0     ------
Scene quarrying, clay & sand pit mining               2          1       9.75         1     -         --         -         --       1         3       10.00        2      -         ---                  --       3         1       19.75         1      2         1       12.81         1
MinZ n                                                 6         3        9.55       1I      -         -           -        -       -        -           -         -       -        -           -         -       6         2        9.55         1     ------
Electicty, gas and stea                               -        -           -         -      -         -           -        -        1         3       54.82        3      -         ---                  --       1         0       14.82         1      1         1       19.96         1
Miscllanas   -anfactaring                            3         2      15.16         2     -         --          -         --      2         5       10.66        2       2         3       16.69         2      7         2       4.0           2      4         4       14.56         1
Sub-total                         ~~~       ~~~     ~~35  18  212.59  23  -         --          -        --       7        20       50.28       10       8      _14      108.75        15      50        17     371.62        17      26        19      163.75       12
Total                                         1         f_12LIt.g            a       _i.    _  100       92.32      100      34        00     530.84       100   4,,j                725.06       100    290-/   108    2302.69           0      1641 8              -1407       -0
1/    Fsr foreign curree..y lon,par rates or se'lling exchange  rates oLhe date of dihorsemeci have been used for co-v-sio   into  aht.
2/    Par exchange rates en aveage buying rates qooted  b y the Bank of Thailand en Dece.mber 31, 1975 for convrsion  of foreige curreny
loI..an  to Bsht.
3/ No. of te-as. 
EAP Pro jctn Denarts..nt
March 2, 1976



INDUSTRIAL PINANCE CORPORATION OF TOiALAND
SubP-rojects Approved Under TI.. con No. 992-T' as of Pebruary 29, 1976
Total                                       INND       Rates of       jOsroOtOO        Iers.oal1                        CT
1/                                                                          Foreign         ProjecteCost        OFOT's Financing          Floancing    Rgettrn      Export Salo1-/ E' ploy not   Total Cost-/   isancing
(Bt. 000'a) (Bt. 000's)
Ooh-Frolerto                              lodoatry         Location         Now/Eop.      Oenornhir          Bt. 000's    Local      roone   Total   US$ 000's   Econe. Fin.         Bt. 000's         No. John      m 3. OOO's  (B.OOO's)
1, Thai Industrial Oases, Ltd. (A)           Che=icals        Gr. Boogkok      Ep.           AUS B5%              17,999      3,669     11,329    14,998      503.7    52%   20%             -               36          500            417
2. Bangkok Weaving MiIU, Ltd. (A)            Tentiles         Gr. Bangkok      Ep.           PICA/JAP 40%        351,513        -       50,000    50,000   2,438.6    3 3%   26b       452,000            2,514          140             20
3   ahag.n.  sugra  gefinery (A)             Sognr            Central Region   New               -                621,054        -       55,000    55,000   2,677.9    56%   15%        528,000              438        1,418            126
4. Thai Visylos Canvas Idoatrien (B)        Tootile-         Or. Bangkok       Hop.             -                 12,255        842      8,938      9,780       49.0     -    41%       20,500                85         144             115
5, Rajabhri Industry Co=pany, Ltd.(A)        s0g0r            Gr. Bangkok       Nev              -                289,059        -       25,188    25,188       980.0    807.  19%      310,000              803          360             31
6. Boos Chuoay' Fasctory,Ltd. (A)             Teatilos        Or. aBegkok      Elp.              -                 16,255        -       20,S0O    11,080       550.0    50%   30%           -                 ll        1,478         l,U07
7, Citric  Acid Industry, Co  Ltd. (A)       Chetriols        Gr. Bangkok       Hew           TwN  277             49,624        -       20,000    50.000       978.0    24%   19%       30,055               135         366            148
8. Thai Kor-bo Co=pany, Ltd. (B)              Cextilos        Ceotr-l Region  Efp.            JAP 49%             268,422      35,000     5,000    40,000       244.5    21%   14%      186,600             1,107         242             36
9. Shon Lee Plastics (B)                      plastic-        Gr. Bangkok       Now           TWN 47%              12,200       1,900     3,100      5,000      157.1     -    33%       37,500               260          47             19
10, Hood Y1i Sskoro Hotel Co. (B)             Hotel            Souther  geg.    Now               -                 36,500       5,000     7,000    12,000       338.7    15%   15%           -                108         338            111
11. Haad Yai Invest..ent Co. (B)              HoCel            Sorther-  Reg.    New              -                 38,000       5,500     2,000      7,500       53.7    15%   15%           -                103         369             73
12. Thai S00. Lee  (B)                        Txtiles          Gr. Boogkok       Now              -                 28,670      13,689     1,881    15,570        89.8    27%   15%        51,300              411           70             38
13. A.7ia Pottery Co. (B)                     Cetraics         Gr. Bangkok       New           TWN 46%              18,700       3,125     5,875      9,000      291.0    24%   197        18,600              145         129              62
14. Bangkok Marble Co.                           harble Tile   Gr. Bangkok       New           CAM/HK 40%            9,493        -        3,982      3,982      198.5     -    21%         9,200               30         316             133
15. Pathana Casting Conpony, Ltd. (B)         Steel Frodcrts  Gr. Bangkok        Now           TWN 10%               7,225       1,025     2,475      3,500      116.0      -    35%          -                 66          109             53
16. Sooth Sion Chsnicsls Works,               Chemicals        Gr. Bangkok       New                                25,800       6,730     6,270    13,000       304.3    18%   14%        11,670               43         600             302
Co. Ltd. (B)
17, Geererl Iron Copay, Ltd. (o)               steel Frodoct  Ceotral   giSr   New               N    %d170SING   51  17,830     5,140     2,360      7,500      220.4     _    19%        41,600              188           95             40
17. Ge-.1 Ir.- C-p.Oy, Ltd. (B)                                       ~~~~HR  20%
1H, Hanyo  Ontoersal Co. Ltd.  (B)            Electrlc         G-. Bo1skok       Eop.          JAP 48.5%            36_648      22.338     7.677    30,015       376.0    35%   06%       132,90U              8772          42             34
Appliac-ee                                      US   0.5%_
Total                                                                                   1.837.046    103.95    229.155   333,113    0562                      1,B29.929355  2562                                453
Unco-ittod Balance 
1/ Two sobprojects, Thai Coe-teeria1 Lines Co. ($1.2 nillio-) aod Udo- Woodvork Prod-rtn. Ltd. (1337,0o) veto opprovp d bht s-hsbqoontly withdr-wn
2/ BaSed on constant prlnrot prices.
3/  In addition tn fixed cost of physical a-sets, project cost also inclodec net working capital elemsnt which on as average acco fnta for 10-15% of the total cost.
RAP P-ojacot DlparMe-t
sarch 1, 1976



THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Details of Equity Investments Approved as of December 31, 1975
(Et in '000)
% of Equity          --------       IFCT's Investment-----------------
Year  of       Line  of       Paid-in          Foreign            Amount   7 of Paid-   Actual Dist/ Book/Market                 1/         1
S. No.    Name of Company              Approval       Business       Capital       Participation        Approved  in Capital    bursement-    Value                FRR -      ERR -        Operational Status and Performance
3/
1.       The Metal Box Co., Ltd.   1969            Metal            28,000              _                 250        0.9%             250          220         (Not calculated)        Company's operations are profitable
containers                                                                                                                          and it  paid a 97% dividend in 1975.
4/
2.       The Investment              1972 and       Publishing         678       16% (Germany)            175      25.87.               175         200         (Not calculated)        After suffering losses for many con-
Publication Co., Ltd.         1973                                                                                                                                              secutive years, the company earned a
modest profit in 1975. Future prospects
are reasonably good.
51                                          6/
3.       Thai Pulp Co., Ltd.           1973         Pulp and       260,000       207. (USA)            10,000        3.8%               -            _          (Under revision)         Project implementation has not yet begun.
Paper                                                                                                                               Project cost has considerably changed
and therefore the project is being re-
appraised by IFCT.
4.       Thai Castor Oil Co.,          1973         Castor oil    20,000-    30% (Japan)                5,000       25%                 -            -          24=h        -            Start of project implementation awaiting
finalization of foreign joint venture
5.       Thai Feed Industry Co.,   1975             Animal          12,000       33% (Japan)            2,000       16.7%           2,000         2,00O         23%         -            agreement.
Ltd. 5/                                    feed                                                                                                                                 Project is expected to start regular
commercial production from March 1976.
7/           7/                             7/                              4/
6.       The Mutual Fund Co.,          1975         Investments   20,000                              11,600       58%-             5,800        5,800-        (Not calculated)         The company is at present in the initial
Ltd.                                                                                                                                                                            formation stage and expected to become
operative in the second half of 1976.
7.       Siam Chemical           S/   1975          Textile         15,000       49% (Japan)            1,000        6.7%               -            -          22%         25%          The project started cosamercial operations
Industries  Co., Ltd.-                    resins                                                                                                                               recently.
8.       Thai Glass Industries         1975         Glass          100,000       45% (Australia)       10.000       10%                 -             -         21%         39%          The company's existing operations are
Co., Ltd.                                 containers                                                                                                                           profitable.  IFCT's investment will finance
part of the expansion cost.
Total                455.678                             40_025       8.8%o            8,225      ~8220
1/  Calculated for IFCT financed projects at the time the investment decisions were made by IFCT.
2/  Also present investment.
3/ Market value.
4/ Book value
5/ Also IFCT borrowers.
6/ Represents authorized capital. The paid-in capital has not yet been finally determined.
7/  Paid-in capital is planned to be raised to Bt 40.0 million and in the additional capital IFC
is likely to participate to the extent of Bt 6.0 million or 15%.  After total subscribed capital
is paid-in the percentage of IFCT's shareholding will decline from 58% to 29%.
EAP Projects Department
February 26, 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORTION OF THAILAND
Financial Position and Performance
Financial Position
1.        Assets - IFCT's audited balance sheets as of December 31, 1971
through 1974 and the unaudited balance sheet as of December 31, 1975, appear
in Annex 8, Table 1. Over this four-year period, total assets increased by
154% from Bt 582 million as of December 31, 1971 to Bt 1,478 million as
of December 31, 1975. The structure of IFCT's assets over the years 1973
through 1975 is detailed below:
IFCT's Assets Structure
(Bt Million)
As of December 31
1973              1974              1975
Amount   %        Amount   %        Amount    %
Current Assets /a                 143.8    19        135.2    13         90.3    6
Year to year growth              +37%                -6%              -33%
(of which deposits)              (118.5)  (15)       (85.9)   (8)      (14.7)  (1)
(year to year growth)           +59%               -28%                -83%
Long-term Loans                   601.1    78        922.3    85       1,342.6  91
Year to year growth               +3%               +53%               +46%
Equity Investments                  0.3      -         0.4      -          8.2   1
Fixed Assets                       25.0      3        18.4      2         37.1   2
Total Assets                    770.2   100    1,076.3   100        1,478.2 100
Year to year growth              +10%               +40%                +37%
/a   Excluding current maturities of long-term loans.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
While the highest growth rates in total assets were recorded in 1974 and
1975 with 40% and 37% respectively, current assets during these periods
have been decreasing both in relative terms (from 19% of total assets in
1973 to 6% in 1975) and in absolute terms (from Bt 144 million to Bt 90
million). Two factors have contributed to such dramatic change in the
structure of IFCT's assets. First, there was an 88% reduction (from Bt
119 million to Bt 15 million) in the size of bank deposits (representing
temporary deposits of proceeds from its equity issue in 1973) - the main
component of current assets till 1974 - which reflected their utilization
against IFCT's long term local currency disbursements. Secondly, IFCT's
loan portfolio grew very rapidly from 78% of total assets in 1973 to 91%
in 1975. Over the four year period ended December 31, 1975, IFCT's loan
portfolio increased by 187% from Elt 464 million to Bt 1,333 million,
with growth rates of 53% and 46% respectively in 1974 and 1975; foreign
currency loans which accounted for 54% of the loan portfolio in 1971 had
risen to 62% as of December 31, 1975. 1/ The equity portfolio has in-
creased from Bt 0.3 million in 1971 to ]Bt 8.2 million in 1975 (0.6% of
total assets) following the higher rate of equity investment approvals in
this year and IFCT's subsequent disbursements.
2.        Liabilities and Equity - The following table gives a breakdown
of IFCT's liability structure for the years 1973 through 1975:
IFCT's Liability Structure
(Bt million)
As of December 31                    1973               1974             1975
Amount      %       Amount    %      Amount   %
Current Liabilities /a            31.2      4        52.9      5       73.1    5
Year to year growth              20%                70%               38%
Long-term Debt                   533.8    69        800.6    74   1,151.8   78
Year to year growth               0%                50%               44%
Equity                           205.2    97        222.8    21       253.3   17
Year to year growth              42%                 9%               14%
Total Liabilities &
Equity                         770.2   100    1,076.4   100   1,478.2  100
Year to year growth              10%                40%               37%
/a   Excluding current maturities of long-term debt.
1/   Including under foreign currency loans, Bt 48 million advanced from
local currency resources.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
The rapid growth of IFCT's portfolio in the two-year period ended December
1975 was essentially financed by an increase in debt as is reflected in
the total debt 1/ equity ratio which has risen from 2.7:1 in 1973 to 4.9:1
in 1975. While IFCT's total debts grew by 2% only in 1973, the increase
was 51% in 1974 and 43% in 1975; over the four-year period December 1971
to December 1975, total debts increased by 172% from Bt 461 million to Bt
1,225 million. IFCT's long term debt increased by 171% over the same
period from Bt 425 million to Bt 1,152 million but the highest rates of
growth were recorded in 1974 and in 1975 with 50% and 44% respectively.
IFCT's equity, on the other hand, increased by 93% from Bt 131 million as
of December 31, 1971 to Bt 253 million as of December 31, 1975. Aside
from a 1973 share capital increase of Bt 50 million such growth of equity
was achieved through ploughed back profits and reserves build up.
3.        Financial Structure.  The rapid increase in IFCT's long term debt,
reflecting the recent growth in its loan portfolio has caused IFCT's long term
debt 2/ equity ratio to rise from 2.9:1 in 1973 to 4.8:1 by December 31, 1975;
IFCT's financial structure, however, remains sound. The debt/equity ratio is
well within the limitations imposed by IFCT's various creditors (including the
Bank), as well as IFCT's own policy statement which fix the maximum ratio at
6:1. Based on IFCT's projected requirements of funds for the period 1976-1980
the debt/equity limit would be exceeded by the third quarter of 1976 if IFCT's
share capital were to remain at the present level of Bt 150 million (unchanged
since 1973). Accordingly, a share capital increase of Bt 100 million in the
current year 1976 appears totally warranted; this increase would maintain the
debt/equity ratio within the presently authorized limit of 6:1 throughout the
projection period (until 1980).
4.        As mentioned earlier, IFCT's current assets 3/ have decreased by
33% in 1975 as compared to their 1974 level (despite a 37% increase in
total assets) owing to an 83% drop in the volume of bank deposits. Current
liabilities during the same period increased by 38% thus bringing the
current ratio down from 2.6:1 in 1974 to 1.3:1 in 1973. IFCT's current
ratio for the years 1971 through 1973 had exceeded 4:1 and reached 4.6:1
in 1973 principally because of a share capital increase (held in short-
term deposits) in that year. Taking current maturities of long-term debt
and long-term borrowings into account the current ratio decreased less
markedly from 2.0:1 in 1974 to 1.6:1 in 1975 but net current assets stood
at Bt 117 million against undisbursed local currency commitments of Bt 184
1/   Excluding contingent liabilities but including current liabilities..
2/   Including contingent liabilities but excluding current liabilities.
3/   Excluding current maturities of long-term loans.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
million. This tight liquidity position at the end of 1975, however, eased up
at the beginning of 1976 with the influx of IFCT's Bt 150 million debenture
issue.
5.        Against a par value of Bt: 1,000 the book value of IFCT's shares
was Bt 1,689 as of December 31, 1975. IFCT's shares were last traded
(privately) at Bt. 1,167 per share in December 1975 and at Bt 1,600 in
January 1976.
Financial Performance
6.         Profitability - IFCT's income statements for the years 1971
throub. 1975 1/ are summarized in Annex 8, Table 2. Principal highlights
are summarized below:
(Amount in Baht Millions)
Years ended December 31             1971      1972      1973       1974       1975
Gross income                        49.1      60.2      66.5       86.0      131.7
Financial expenses                  22.0      28.4      33.6       38.6       66.5
Gross margin                   27.1      31.8      32.9       47.4       65.2
Administrative expenses &
provision for bad debts           14.0      10.1      11.6       20.5       26.9
Net Income                     13.1      21.7      21.3       26.9       38.3
(year to year growth)              21%       66%       -2%        26%        42%
Gross income as % of average
total assets                       9.6       9.4       9.1        9.3       10.3
Net income as % of average
total assets                       2.6       3.4       2.9        2.9        3.0
Net income as % of average
equity                            12.7      15.8      12.2       12.5       16.1
IFCT's net income over the past five years almost tripled from Bt 13 million
to Bt 38 million and grew by 26% and 42% respectively in 1974 and 1975 against
a small decline in 1973. The rapid increase in net income is primarily due
1/   1975 accounts are unaudited.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
to the growth in IFCT's loan portfolio; in fact, net income expressed
in percentage of average total assets has improved only marginally.
Increased profits and improved leverage since 1973 have brought the
return on average equity from 12.2% in 1973 to 16.1% in 1975. IFCT
has progressively increased its dividends from a 9% dividend (on par
value of share capital) to 9.5% in 1974 and 10% in 1975 but owing
to the growing level of profits, the payout ratio decreased from an
historical level of about 50% to 39% in 1975.
7.        Income - IFCT's gross income grew by 168% from Bt 49 million
in 1971 to Bt 132 million in 1975. Growth rates of 29% and 53% were
recorded in the years 1974 and 1975 respectively. As a percentage of
average total assets a sizeable improvement was recorded from 9.1% in
1973 to 10.3% in 1975. A more detailed breakdown of gross income for
the period 1971 through 1975 appears below:
1971          1972        1973       1974      1975
Income from loans:            38,192         52,651      58,434    69,760   126,130
(year to year growth)          -            +38%        +11%       +19%       +81%
Interest earned            (34,939)      (49,766)   (55,563)  (64,600) (117,000)
(year to year growth)          -            +42%        +12%       +16%       +81%
Penalties, fees, etc.       (3,253)        (2,885)     (2,871)   (5,160)   (9,130)
(year to year growth)          -           (-11%)        (-1%)     +80%       +77%
Interest on deposits          10,708          7,492       8,052    16,114       5,413
Others                            260            69          40        157        142
Total gross income:        49,160        60,212      66,526    86,032   131,685
(year to year growth)          29%           22%          10%        29%       53%
As % of average loan portfolio
Gross income                  11.6           11.3        11.1       11.3       11.6
Total income from loans         9.0           9.9         9.7        9.1       11.1
Interest income                8.2            9.4         9.2        8.4       10.3
Penalties                       0.8           0.5         0.5        0.7        0.8



ANNEX 8
Page 6
Income from an expanding loan portfolio, which represented as much as
96% of IFCT's gross income in 1975, 1/ is the cause of the unprecedented
growth in IFCT's gross and net income. Between 1971 and 1975 income
from loans has multiplied by a factor of 3.3 from Bt 38 million to Bt
126 million with an 81% growth in 1975. Such growth is due to two main
factors: firstly the 53% and 46% increase in IFCT's outstanding loan
portfolio in 1974 and 1975 respectively, secondly the impact in early
1975 of the decision taken in 1974 to increase the lending rate on foreign
currency loans from 9.5% to 10.5% p.a. following the agreement with
Government on IFCT's foreign exchange risk coverage. From 1972 to 1974
IFCT's interest income on its average loan portfolio had been decreasing
owing to a relatively higher disbursement rate of foreign currency lend-
ing at 9.5% vis-a-vis domestic currency lending at 10.5%. Income from
fees and penalities has increased by 218% in 1975 from its 1973 level
and from 0.5% of the average loan portfolio to 0.8% thus reflecting
a slight deterioration in the quality of IFCT's portfolio. Overall, in
spite of an increase in the average cost of term debt, the increase in
the average income from loans in 19375 has improved the interest spread
from 3.3% in 1974 to 4.7% in 1975.
8.        Expenses - IFCT's total expenses have grown by 159% between
1971 and 1975 from Bt 36 million to Bt 93 million, a lower growth rate
than that of gross income, hence the overall improvement in IFCT's pro-
fitability. Administrative expenses have increased by 143% during this
period but remained at 1.6% of average total assets from 1972 through
1974 and marginally decreased to 1.5% in 1975. Financial expenses (in-
cluding the provisions made under the Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement)
have increased to 5.2% of average total assets in 1975 against a level of
4.6% in 1973 and a dip to 4.2% in 1974 following IFCT's drawdown of the
entire Bt 116 million of the PL 48CI funds made available by Government
at 2.25% p.a only. The 1975 rise to 5.2% was conversely due to the
IFCT's drawdown on the Bank of Thailand, Japan Exim Bank and IBRD lines
of credit which cost respectively 8%, 5.25% and 7.5% per annum. Pro-
visions for doubtful loans are not made by IFCT as a percentage of its
loan portfolio but are determined on the basis of a case-by-case review,
taking into account the discounted value of collaterals available. The
allocations made in 1974 and 1975 were negligible. Other provisions
made in accordance with the terms of the Danish Loan and of the PL 480
Government Loan represented a mere 0.6% of average total assets. Such
provisions are effectively required under these agreements as a means to
limit IFCT's distribution of income to its shareholders and thereby in-
crease its equity base. As such they represent an appropriation of income
rather than an expense. IFCT's auditors were requested to look into the
matter and have made the necessary changes in the frame of the 1975 audit.
1/   Against 81% only in 1974 when 18% of IFCT's gross income originated
from deposits, owing to (a) a higher level of inter-bank deposits
and (b) a sharp increase in the inter-bank rate.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
9.        Foreign Exchange Risk - Until 1974 IFCT's lending in foreign
currency had been impeded by the borrowers' reluctance to carry the
foreign exchange risk when Baht resources were freely convertible. In
March 1974, a Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement was signed between the
Ministry of Finance and IFCT whereby, without being totally relieved
of possible losses as a result of foreign currency realignments, IFCT
could cover such losses without significant financial consequences. Under
the Agreement IFCT must build up a provision equivalent to 1.25% of
that portion of its outstanding foreign debt incurred after the Agreement.
This 1.25% provision consists of (i) a 0.25% fee to be paid by IFCT into
a "Claim Account" in the name of the Ministry of Finance which although
belonging to Government remains with IFCT and on which IFCT must pay
interest at the rate of 6% per annum; and (ii) a 1% provision for build-
ing up a Foreign Exchange Fund. Losses due to a realignment of currencies
are chargeable, first against the Foreign Exchange Fund (up to 75% of the
balance in the fund) and the balance, if any, against the Claim Account.
The Ministry of Finance undertakes to cover all losses in excess of the
charges so made. Such advances are free of interest and are repayable by
IFCT at the rate of only Bt 1 million per annum. The interest rate on
foreign currency loans which was fixed at 9.5% p.a. with the borrower
assuming the foreign exchange risk was raised to 10.5% (the lending rate
applicable to local currency loans), following the effectiveness of the
Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement.
10.       Audit - IFC has retained the services of SGV-Na Thalang & Co. to
audit its accounts since 1972. Their reports have satisfactorily met the
Bank's long-term audit report requirements. IFCT's accounts have always
been certified without qualification.



ANNEX h
Table 1
IlWST1QL FDAC1E CORTIOIN OF TH&IIAIW
Svnaorized   lance Set     o Dp eer 31. 1971-1975
( Bt . thousand)
As of Daceabw 31                                 1971      12lk 2119
(   -4udit.d----- ------)   (Unsudited)
ASST
Current Assets
Cash                                             3,496      2,297       1,711     6,100      6,1l4
Deposits                                        89,150     74,500     118,530    85,913     14,748
Gorvnunt securitie                                1,160     1,16o       1,160     1,120      1,120
Notes receivable-rediccount                       -          -          1,360    13,776     18,510
Accrid inose                                    17,234     26,137      19,529    26,696     45,955
Othe receivables                                   522 5.                1.480   1.580       1,838
111,562    104,68     143,770   135,185     90,275
Lon-To LO DC 6
Dome_tic cwrr wy                               216,655    228,871     228,961   401,738    559,229-
Fareign currmcy                                2558L9    ,6.7Z        30        518.213    781.51a
Total portfolio                           172,213    594,Z42     6,309  9i9,951  1,340,770
Less: provii sm  for doubtful loans             (          (82)            0)         3 (13)    (.709
Loanm not of provisions                   4,13       586,4L2       1,0
LO DC n t of protidon     - ,013    58w2        60~~~1,109   912,758  1,3-33,061-
Hire-purchase contract and agreement to sell      -          -           -       14,550     14,550
Less: unrealized profit                                          - -  9            57h
Eauitr invests-ts                                  250        250         350       425      8,225
Property and equipment (net)                     6,181      6,546      25,014    18,393     37,058
&Ltfi.AA&qt[                               2Qa_   697.886        770.243 1.076.115  l.h78 193
LIAELITITS ANID QUITr
Currnt Liabilitiec
Accrued charges on borrowings                   14,349     14,103      15,691    19,709     26,006
Sundry creditors                                 3,019      3,036       3,620     4,545     10,128
HOF claim accant ;/                               -          -           -           35        884
Intert refundable to borrower V                   -             9         153       442        773
Counterpart fund 1fN III J/                       -          -           -         -           267
Proposed dividend                                8,249      9,000      10,368    4J.,250    14,000
Notes payable rediscount                          -          -          1.360    13.776    16.13
Rser, for Foria ExbAe  ik                          -         -           -          140      3,306
ion=T-r Dobt
Fordlgn aiirraw:
KfN                                            66,385     54,450      47,925    45,867     63,319
IBIID                                             541       -           -         -       159,933
ADB                                           160,258    178,291     153,356    4,549    10 ,
Danish ivramont credit                                     1,631       5,261    1 ,15          3
JapanKl  Bank                                               -           -6      792        2477
subtotal                                  227,18     234,372     2 W;3    279,723    570,431
Local ourr_w:
Special Tan                                    21,809    118,672     154,394   201,213    166,155
Bank of Thailand long-twa credit                 -          -           -       32,440    130,711
Government loans                               81,051     79,600      77,880   192,306    189,457
US-AID                                         15,000     15,000      15,000    15,000     15,000
Debentures                                     80.000                 so 8.0    W.         so,
Subtotal                                   7  NO   2                M      50II
42,C      521JUC       B30    0.68   1,151754
Paid-in capital                                100,000    100,000     150,000   150,000    150eCe6
Retained earning s
kppropriated to reserves                        31,040    43,741      54,541    67,111     90,412
Unappropriated                                    305        338         408       441        477
Reserves required by loan  agrements i/          -                       286     5.2o3    12.a3
Total not worth                            131,345   I441I4       2-05235   2455   253,332
Total Liabilities and Ecuitv              582.006   697.886              1.076.334  1.478.19
Contingent liabilities (guarantees)              74,105    59,137      67,444    49,681     59,723
Curront ratio I/                                 4.4        4.0         4.6       2.6(2.0)   1.3(1.6)
L _-ta dabV7Pity                                  3.        4.1          2.9       3.8        4.
Rlos-vms od provisdon as S of
Portfolio (including guaratee)                    7.2%       8.0%        9.4%      8.2%       7J.%
As per the Foreign lEchange lisk tgremt IFCT must pW into a Claiz Account' in the name of the Ministry of
Finance 1/14 p.a. of its outstanding foreign debt.
/ Applicable to a fishery project financed from the proceeds of the Danish Loan.
J  The proceeds of this fud can be used by IFCT for conducting feaibility studies.
Under thb Foreign Echange Risk Agremnt OUT sets aside a provision for Ezchange Risk of 1S p.s. of
its outstanding foreign debt.
A Is per agreement under the Danish Loan end the Govaroment Loan PL 480.
Includ e Bt 48.3 millien loca 1urrency diebusrmnts for omitmesus in foreign ourrenoy, for which
eibwamestnt was pading.
/ Figures in brackets take into acocnt current maturities of I7CT's long-tam lons and borrowings.
2UP Projects Departeont
Karch 1, 1976



ANNEx 8
Table 2
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Summarized Income Statements for 1971 Through 1975
(Bt thousand)
1971      1972       1973       1974       1975
(-    ------- Audited ------------)  (Unaudited)
Income
Interest on loans                                          38,192    52,651    58,434    69,761   126,130
Interest on temporary investments and deposits             10,708      7,492      8,052    16,114       5,413
Others                                                        260         69         40        157        142
Total income                                          49,160    60,212    66,526    86,032   131,685
Expenses
Interest on indebtedness                                   22,004    28,392    33,622    38,453    62,483
Administrative and general                                  7,509      9,607    10,922    14,475    18,218
Depreciation                                                  324        430        523        606        613
Loss on foreign exchange                                       -          -         140        263        -
Foreign exchange risk fund and fee                            -          -          -          175      4,015
Provision for foreign currency revaluations                   -           36         59        -          -
Provision for doubtful loans                                6,200        -          -          -          516
Provision for refund to borrower 1/                           -          -          -          289        331
Provision required by loan agreements 2/                      -          -          -        4.918      7,240
Total expenses                                        36,037    38,465    45,266    59,179    93,416
Net income                                            13.123    21,747    21,260    26,853    38,269
Profit (loss) on sale of assets                                41          3        (21)       -           69
Retained earnings brought forward                             250        305        338        408        441
Total                                                 13,414    22,055    21,577    27,261    38,779
Profit Allocation
Dividend                                                    8,249      9,017    10,369    14,250    15,000
General reserve                                               900      6,100      4,400      4,470    11,800
Legal reserve                                                  660     1,100      1,100      1,350      1,917
Reserve for possible loan losses                            3,300      5,500      5,300      6,750      9)585
Retained earnings carried forward                             305        338        408        441        477
Total                                                 13,414    22,055    21,577    27,261    38,779
Percentage of Average Total Assets
1.  Gross income                                             9.6        9.4        9.1        9.3       10.3
2.  Financial expenses 3/                                    4.3        4.4        4.6        4.2        5.2
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                                       5.3        5.0        4.5        5.1        5.1
4.  Administrative expenses                                   1.5       1.6        1.6        1.6        1.5
5.  Provisions                                               1.2         0          0         08.6       0.6
6.  Net profit                                               2.6        3.4        2.9        2.9        3.0
Profit as % of:
Average equity                                               12.7       15.8      12.2       12.5       16.1
Share capital                                               13.1       21.7       14.2       17.9       25.5
Other Ratios
Income from loans as % of average portfolio                   9.0        9.9       9.7        9.1       11.1
Cost of debt as % of average debt 3/                          5.7       6.0        6.3        5.8        6.4
Interest spread                                               3.3       3.9        3.4        3.3        4.7
1/ As per agreement under Danish Loan
2/ As per agreement under Danish Loan and Government Loan PL480
3/ Inclusive of Foreign Exchange risk fund and fee
EAP Projeot. Dertmnt
w. eh 1. 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Quality of Portfolio
A.   Loan Portfolio
1.        IFCT's loan portfolio has now matured and is quite sound.  An
analysis of loan portfolio status as of December 31, 1975 is provided in
Annex 9, Table 1. Of the 301 projects for which IFCT had approved loans
totalling Bt. 2.57 billion up to December 31, 1975, 249 (or 83%) with loans
totalling Bt. 1.77 billion (or 69% of the amount) were fully operational.
124 loans (41%) amounting to Bt. 315.1 million (12% of the total approved)
had been repaid. As of December 31, 1975, IFCT's outstanding loan port-
folio of Bt. 1.34 billion embraced 120 client companies of which 38, with out-
standing loans amounting to Bt. 386.0 million (28.8% of total portfolio),
were operating profitably and servicing IFCT loans regularly. Thirty-nine
projects (32.5% of total) accounting for 44.2% of the total amount outstand-
ing were either under construction or in the pre-operational stage. Thirty-
six companies (30% of total), with outstanding IFCT loans totalling Bt. 319.4
million (23.8% of total), were operating at a loss; they did not confront any
particular technical and/or financial problems and were making regular pay-
ments to IFCT. Altogether over 94% of the portfolio by number and 97% by
amount was in a satisfactory condition.
2.        As of December 31, 1975, 18 client companies (or 15.0% of total)
were in arrears for a total amount of Bt. 27.6 million. The principal over-
due totalled Bt. 12.6 million or only 0.9% of the total loan portfolio. The
outstanding principal affected by arrears amounted to Bt. 149.2 million or
11% of the total loan portfolio. A historical analysis of loans in arrears
is presented in Annex 9, Table 2. Compared to FY74, both loan arrears and
loans affected by arrears have doubled but are still quite low. Total
amounts overdue increased from Bt. 10.0 million (1.1% of total portfolio)
to Bt. 27.6 million (2.0% of total portfolio) while principal affected by
arrears increased from Bt 47.3 miLlion (6% of total portfolio) to Bt. 149.2
million (11% of total portfolio).
3.        The increase in loan arrears is attributable to a generally down-
ward economic trend rather than being a reflection of structural deteriora-
tion in the quality of IFCT's portfolio. In the past two years IFCT's loan
portfolio has expanded at a rate of over 120% (from Bt. 609.3 million as of
end of FY73 to Bt. 1.34 billion as of the end of FY75). At the same time,
the part of the loan portfolio in the repayment stage increased at a rate
of 128% (from Bt. 283.7 million to Bt. 647.8 million). An expansion in
loan portfolio at this speed makes some increase in arrears almost
inevitable.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
4.        Of the 18 defaulting clients 13 1/ were new entrants on the default
list in FY75.  These 13 projects account for 30% of total arrears and about
64% of loans affected by arrears.  Accounts overdue for more than one year
relate principally to two projects which are in default for Bt. 15.1 million,
i.e. about 78% of accounts more than one year overdue and 55% of total arrears.
One of them is a gypsum board project, a pioneering venture in Thailand,
facing a classic problem of slow market acceptability. In IFCT's judgement
the project is essentially a viable one and the gestation period for market
development is likely to be long. 2/ The second project is a deep sea fishing
project which has had to face a series of unforeseen mishaps. It is now
recovering from their effects. Profitability is expected to be restored
shortly and IFCT dues cleared. There are only three clients (with arrears of
Bt. 1.8 million and total outstanding loans of Bt. 6.7 million) whose accounts
could be classified as being in serious difficulty.
5.        IFCT makes provisions for doubtful accounts on the basis of a tho-
rough review of each account. In FY75, IFCT's review indicated a need for
increased provisions for only one account where the collateral was found
to be insufficient to cover IFCT's exposure, resulting in the provisions
for doubtful accounts being increased by Bt. 0.5 million to Bt. 7.7 million
(covering three loan accounts and one guarantee). One of the three loan
accounts covered by provisions is, in fact, no longer in default and is
now servicing IFCT's loan. IFCT's total exposure in the remaining three
companies (two loans and one guarantee), all under liquidation, is Bt. 8.0
million (including accrued interest). IFCT holds enough collateral to
cover any eventual loss exceeding the provisions made for these loans (an
unlikely prospect). The appraisal mission has reviewed IFCT's loan port-
folio and was satisfied that IFCT's judgement with regard to the provisions
made for doubtful accounts was realistic . This matter was also discussed
with IFCT's auditors.
Equity Investment Portfolio
6.        As of December 31, 1975 IFCT had equity investments of Bt. 8.2
million in four companies: (i) The Metal Box Co. (Thailand) Ltd. for
Bt. 250,000; (ii) The Investment Publication Co., Ltd. for Bt. 175,000;
(iii) Thai Feed Industry Co., Ltd. for Bt. 2.0 million; and (iv) The Mutual
Fund Co., Ltd. for Bt. 5.8 million. Investments in the last two companies
were made in FY75 and these companies are still in the pre-operational
stage; prospects for both projects are bright. The other two companies
1/   Four of which were in the tapioca industry.
2/   This project was visited by the appraisal mission which concurs with
IFCT's judgement. IFCT has recently informed the Bank of its successful
efforts to restructure the capitalization of the company and to bring in
new partners into the venture who will concentrate on solving the market-
ing problem. These actions have resulted in a significant improvement in
IFCT's portfolio.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
were not doing well financially tntil FY73. However, both of them have
since turned the corner and are now making a profit. In fact one of them
(Metal Box) declared a 9% cash diLvidend in FY75; the other company (Invest-
ment Publications) is expected to follow suit once it has recovered its
past losses. The quality of IFCT's equity investment portfolio is sound.
Guarantee Portfolio
7.        Outstanding guarantees amounted to Bt. 59.7 million as of
December 31, 1975 and were issued for eight companies. With one exception
all IFCT's guarantees were being retired on time. The one guarantee in
default (for Bt. 1.2 million or 2% of total outstanding guarantees) was
issued to a company which is now under liquidation. IFCT has been recover-
ing this guarantee in installments (the outstanding amount has actually
been reduced from Bt. 6.0 million in FY73 to Bt. 1.2 million in FY75) but
it has prudently made a provision of Bt. 2.0 million against possible losses.
As the provision exceeds the outstanding amount IFCT is more than fully
covered.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Status of Loan Portfolio
As of December 31, 1975
(Bt in million)
No.of                Amount of
loans     %       loans approved    %
Implementation Progress of Loans Approved
Projects completed:           1/
Under initial operations -                          50      17          787,87         31
Under regular operations 2/                         71      24          659.74         26
Fully repaid                                       124      41         315.14          12
Under liquidation/litigation                         4       1           11.08         -
Sub-total                              249      83       1,773.83          69
Approved but not committed                             11       4          270.43         10
Under disbursements and under construction             41      13          528.85         21
Total loans approved                   301    100        2,573.11         100
3/            Loans
Operational Status of Loan Portfolio                   No.-    %      Outstanding         %
Companies operating profitably                         38    31.6          386.00        28.8
Companies under construction or in
pre-operative stage                                  39    32.5          592.34       44.2
Companies operating at a loss but not in
serious problems                                     36    30.0          319.40       23.8
Companies operating at a loss with technical
and/or financial problems                             3      2.5          31.95         2.4
Companies under liquidation/litigation                  4      3.4          11.08         0.8
Total portfolio                        120   100.0        1,340.77       100.0
First repayment installment not yet due.
Presently servicing debt.
Number of borrowers.
Projects Department
!h 3, 1976



at-
Tal  2
THAILAND
INDUOSRIAL FIONC  CORPOATION OF TAILAND
Antlesl. of Arrears. 1971-75
lEt in ulllimo)
1971                             1972                                1973                               1974                             1973
N..     X      A-ount    7        No.      7      amount    7        N..    7.          ut              No.     7.      AMoont    %       No.      7      Mount       7
A.  Ropsya nt Perfoon-nco of
Portfolio
O-rrwofs r-paying              55      57      184.80   39       49      53      242.27   41        36      43      216.43   36        49      52       391.27    42    52       43      498.62      37
rogularly
Borr-o-rs in groco             26      27      212.84   45        33     36      326.81   55        31      37      325.62   53        39      41       481.39    52    50        42     693.00    52
period
Borror. in default             15      16     74.57      16       10     11       25.56    4        16      20       67.26    11        7       7        47.29      6    18       15      149.15    11
Total loaoo ostantoding        96    100    472.21   100         92    100       594.64  100        63     100      609.31  100        95    100        919.95   100   120    100   1,340.77   100
B. Arrears
Principal                      _       -       14.71   3.1 .l    -        -        2.21  0.4         - _              5.46  0.9 11    -        -          2.50   0.3 -   -         -       15.04   1,1 1
Iotorose t_                            -        7.07   1.5 V1/    _       -        2.00  0.3 1,    -        -         7.23  1.217       -      -          7.55   0.8 11  -        _        12.57   0.9 1/
Total                          15      161   21.79               10      iL 1'     4.21  0.7 z1/            191/   12.69  2.1           7       7        I            -   j         9 ...1J  27.61   2.0 
C. AR. of Arrears
3 to 6 months                   3      20       2.91     13.3     5      50        2.00   47.5    10        63        6.41   50.5       2      29         0.11      1.0   8      44         2.50      9.1
Oo-r 6 to 12 months             2      13       5.68    26.1       2     20         1.00   23.8      1       6        2.84   22.4       1      13         0.08      0.8   3       28        5.82     21.1
COot 12 to 24 months            3      20       8.86    40.7       1      10        0.57   13.5      3      19        2.44   19.2       2      29         5.43    54.1   3        17        6.94    25.1
fOot 24 no.tb.                  7      47       4.33     19.9      2     20        0.64   15.2       2      12        1.00     7.9      2      29         4.43    44.1    2       11       12.35    44.7
Total                          13    100       21.76    100.0    10    100         4.21  100.0    16    100          12.69  100.0       7    100         10.03    100.                     27.61   100.0
D. Starta of Botrowers it Default
By Outstanding Loan}
Oporating profitably            3      20       5.77      7.7      3     30       9.72    38.0       4      25       15.97   23.7       2      29         5.48    11.6   2        11       16.37     11.0
Undor cns truotion or in
pre.oporavtio stage                                     -       -       -                  -       2      12        3.65    5.4       -     -            -        -      3     17       24.78    16.6
Operating atas a      lor
facing fin"otial and/or
torhnical problems           11      73     68.15    91.4       5      50      10.33    40.4       B      50       41.13   61.2       3     42       35.01       74.0  10      55      101.30    67.9
Und-r liquidation/
litigation                    1       7      0.65      0.9      2      20       5.51    21.6       2      13        6.51    9.7       2      29        6.80      14.4   3      17        6.70      4.5
Total                          13        100  74.57    100.0    10    100        25.36   100.0    16    100          67.26  100 0       7    100        47.29     100.0  18    100       149.13    160.0
= .    =  _     _         =     =        55__    O  L_ _    =0     =                                                         _5  =     5 55 = =5
By Arrears
Oporating profitably                            2.53     11.6                     1.35    32.1                       1.94    15.3                        0.12       1.2                     0.91      3.3
Uoder construction or in
pro-opera..ve stoge                            -        -                        -        -                        0.08      0.6                        -         -                      0.88       3.2
Operating at a ios or
faring finantial and/ar
teobnioal problems                          18.62    85.5                       1.55    36.8                       7.41   53.4                        5.50       54.7                   23.97    86.8
Lnder liquidation/
litigatiao                                   0.63      2.9                      1.31    31.1                       3.26    25.7                        4.43      44.1                    1.85      6.7
Total                                          21.78   100.0                      4.21   100.1                      12.69   100.0                       10.03     100.0                   27.61   100.0
1/ As percentago af total outstanding 1oans.
EAP Projeots Depa-tm"nt
Mhuch 3, 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Details of Long-Term Resources as of December 31, 1975
1.        As of December 31, 1975, IFCT had secured cumulative long-term re-
sources amounting to Bt. 2,888.71 million (US$144.44 million equivalent) of
which Bt. 748.60 million (US$37.43 million equivalent) or 26% were in domes-
tic currency and Bt. 2,140.11 (US$107.01 million equivalent) or 74% in for-
eign currency. Untied foreign currency resources represented 57.3% of the
total foreign currency resources with the balance coming from resources tied
to Japanese procurement principally. The following table gives a breakdown
by sources of IFCT long-term resources as of December 31, 1975.
Cumulative to December 31, 1975
in million      Equivalent
Domestic Currency                                         Baht        US$ million
Paid in capital                                          150.00           7.50
Reserves and retained earnings                            90.89           4.55
Reserves as per loan agreements                           12.44           0.62
Total equity and reserves                          253.33          12.67
Borrowings from Government                               215.27          10.76
Debentures                                             80.00            4.00
Bank of Thailand                                      200.00           10.00
Revolving funds                                        (27.08) /1      (1.35) /1
Total domestic currency resources                  748.60          37.43
Foreign Currency
Untied Resources:
KfW loans                                           317.56          15.88
ADB loans                                           646.74          32.34
IBRD loans                                          260.90          13.04
1,225.20          61.26
Tied Resources:
Exim Bank of Japan                                  657.00          32.85
Specian Yen Credit                                  236.52          11.83
Danish Loan                                          21.39           1.07
914.91         45.75
Total foreign currency resources                 2,140.11         107.01
Grand total of all resources                     2,888.71         144.44
/1   Not included in the total of domestic currency resources as it is
included in the foreign currency resources.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
2.        Annex 10, Table 2 gives the main terms and conditions of the for-
eign and domestic long-term borrowings of IFCT as of December 31, 1975. A
brief review of IFCT's equity resources and long-term borrowings is given
below.
Domestic Currency Resources
3.        Share Capital - IFCT's authorized and fully paid-in share capital
amounted to Bt. 150 million as of December 31, 1975. The initial share cap-
ital of Bt. 6.1 million has been increased four times, the latest in Septem-
ber 1973 by an amount of Bt. 50 million. A list of shareholders appears in
Annex 4. No significant changes in IFCT's ownership have taken place since
the appraisal of the second Bank loan. Holdings of foreign shareholders
(including IFC) have marginally decreased from 47.5% of the total to 47.35%;
private domestic shareholders account for 36.26% and the Krung Thai Bank, a
Government-owned commercial bank, for the remaining 16.39%. Excluding IFC
which accounts for 5.3% of IFCT's share capital, the major foreign sharehold-
ers are the US (11.4%), Japan (7.88%) and Germany (7.28%). Following the sale
of IFC's shares to the Mitsui Bank in February 1976, Japanese interests now
account for 13.2% of IFCT's share capital. A breakdown of IFCT's share cap-
ital by shareholders as of December 31, 1975 shows that banking institutions,
local and foreign, accounted for 69%, insurance companies for 5.8%, invest-
ment companies for 5%, and the balance was distributed between IFC, corporate
shareholders (10.3%) and private individuals (4.6%). In order to enlarge its
borrowing base IFCT proposes to increase its share capital by Bt. 100 million
in 1976. Such a measure would enable IFCT to comply with the present debt/
equity requirement of 6:1 contained in its policy statement.
4.        Reserves and Retained Earnia v  - In accordance with the terms of
its Policy Statement, IFCT maintains two types of reserves, a "Legal Reserve"
and a "Reserve for Bad Debts and Investments". Thirty percent of annual
profits are set aside to build up these reserves consisting of: (a) 25% as
reserves for bad debts and investment until such reserves represent 20% of
the loan and investment portfolio; and (b) 5% as legal reserve for strength-
ening of IFCT's equity, to be built up, to 10% of the paid in capital. The
balance after such appropriation and allocation to distributable dividends
is set aside as General Reserve.
5.        As of December 31, 1975, the General Reserve amounted to Bt. 39.8
million and the statutory reserves to Bt. 50.5 million as follows:
in million Baht
Legal Reserve                                 7.833
Reserve for possible loan losses             42.743
General Reserve                              39.836
Total             90.412



ANNEX 10
Page 3
6.        Reserves Required Under Loan Agreements - Under its agreements
with the Danish Government for the D.Kr. 6.5 million loan and with the
Ministry of Finance under the PL 480 Plan IFCT can only treat three percent-
age points of the interest received from borrowers as its income, the
balance (after deduction of interest charges in the case of PL 480) is to be
set aside as an equity reserve. These clauses effectively limit the distri-
bution of dividends and represent an appropriation of earnings. The mission,
therefore, conveyed to IFCT's auditors that the provisions for such reserves
should not be considered as an expense but as an appropriation of income.
The auditors agreed to review this question and its impact on the reserve
policy. As of December 31, 1975, IFCT's cumulative reserves set aside under
the loan agreements amounted to Baht 12.4 million.
7.        Borrowings from the Government - As of end 1975, IFCT had obtained
six Government loans totalling Bt. 215.27 million of which four loans amount-
ing to Bt. 68.85 million are subordinated to share capital; the two other
loans (Bt. 146.42 million) were obtained from PL 480 counterpart funds.
8.        The maturity of the Government subordinated loans ranges from 30
to 50 years and the interest charge from nil to 6% with a current weighted
average of 1.7%. The first repayments on these loans will mature in 1976 and
as of December 31, 1975 the outstanding amount was still Bt. 68.85 million.
9.        Two agreements have been signed between the Government and IFCT
under which IFCT receives baht proceeds from the imports of commodities under
the PL 480 Plan. Such proceeds can be utilized to finance agro-industries
including livestock, fishery and forestry. The first agreement signed in
1965 for a term of 15 years amounted to Bt. 30 million with interest at 6%
per annum; as of end December 1975, the outstanding amount was Bt. 19.19 mil-
lion. The second agreement was signed in 1974 for Bt. 116.4 million with a
40 year term including 10 years grace and 2.25% interest during the grace
period and 3.25% p.a. thereafter. As of December 31, 1975, Bt. 116.4 mil-
lion were outstanding. Special covenants under the second agreement pre-
scribe that during the grace period interest earnings distributable to share-
holders shall not exceed 3 percentage points. As mentioned in para 6,
IFCT accordingly treats a 3% interest spread as operating income and sets
aside the balance as a reserve.
10.       Debentures - IFCT made two debenture issues in April and October
1968 of Bt. 30 million and Bt. 50 million respectively. These debentures
were guaranteed by Government against payment by IFCT of a 0.5% fee. The
interest payable is 7% per annum. The major subscribers of IFCT debentures
were the Government Savings Bank (38%) and the Bank of Thailand (37%), the
balance being subscribed by various commercial banks. In May 1975, the
general assembly of IFCT shareholders approved the issuance of debentures
for Bt. 400 million over a period of five years. Accordingly, IFCT made
a third debenture issue of Bt. 150 million in January 1976 which was fully
subscribed. With an interest rate of 9% p.a. against 8.5% p.a. tax free
on 12 months bank deposits and Government bonds and commercial rates on



ANNEX 10
Page 4
debentures of 11-12%, IFCT debentures are not aimed at attracting funds
from the public. Although IFCT's request for a full guarantee of its
debentures issue was turned down by Government, special classification
privileges were granted to IFCT's debentures which were particularly at-
tractive to institutional subscribers such as commercial banks, insurance
and finance companies.
11.       Bank of Thailand - In 1974, IFCT has secured a long-term redis-
counting facility of up to Bt. 20( million from the Bank of Thailand. The
amortization schedule is linked to repayments by borrowers subject to a
maximum of 10 years. The interest rate payable is 8% p.a. with a 0.5% fee
on acceptance of the note by the Mtinistry of Finance. Under the agreement,
the Bank of Thailand undertakes to buy IFCT's promissory note equal to a
maximum of 70% of IFCT's loan to an eligible enterprise after endorsement by
the Ministry of Finance. Eligibleh enterprises must be (a) export oriented;
or (b) import substituting; or (c) use agricultural raw materials represent-
ing at least 20% of their total needs; in all cases domestic components of
the total production costs must account for at least 50%. As of December
31, 1975, the outstanding loan amount was Bt. 130.71 million and Bt. 63.04
million were still available for commitments.
12.       Revolving Funds - The Exim Bank of Japan and KfW loans have fixed
amortization schedules. IFCT's collections over and above its own repayments
can be used for the financing of domestic currency loans. As of December 31,
1975, DM 638,000 and Y 344 million had so far been accumulated. Since such
funds are lent in baht currency and represent a Deutsche Mark/Yen liability
of IFCT, loans from these funds are made with a Deutsche Mark/Yen value main-
tenance clause whereby the exchange risk is passed on to the sub-borrowers.
Foreign Currency - Untied Resources
13.       KfW Loans - IFCT started borrowing from KfW in 1963 and has so far
obtained four loans for a total of DM 40.98 million or Bt. 317.56 million
(net of cancellations). Only in the case of the first loan are repayments
linked to IFCT's collections. The interest rate payable is 5.5% p.a. for
the two first loans, 6.5% for the third and 7.5% for the fourth loan. Under
both the third and fourth loans, 2% only is payable to KfW, the balance
being accumulated by IFCT in a "Counterpart Fund" to be utilized for financ-
ing feasibility studies. These four lines of credit are for the financing
of small and medium industrial enterprises (not otherwise defined). The
third and fourth loans are limited to projects outside the greater Bangkok
area. As of December 31, 1975, the outstanding amount of KfW loans was
DM 8.05 million, or Bt. 63.32 million, inclusive of the revolving funds;
available for commitments were DM 17.52 million, or Bt 135.78 million,
consisting of DM 2.52 million from the third loan dated August 1973 and
the full DM 15 million of the fourth loan dated October 1975.
14.       ADB Loans - The Asian Devielopment Bank has been so far the largest
source of IFCT's untied foreign currency resources with three loans totalling
US$32.34 million net of cancellations. The first line of credit of US$4.91
million at 6-7/8% p.a. was obtained by IFCT in 1968, the second for US$7.43



ANNEX 10
Page 5
million at 6-7/8% p.a. in 1970 and the third for US$20 million at 8-3/4% p.a.
in August 1975. Outstanding from the two first lines of credit were US$5.1
million as of December 31, 1975, or Bt. 103.86 million. No disbursements
had been made from the third loan but commitments reached US$8.48 million
leaving a balance of US$11.52 million available for commitments.
15.       IBRD Loans - The World Bank Group made a loan of US$2.5 million
after contributing to IFCT's reorganization in 1963. From 1963 to 1970,
IFCT suffered from management problems and an uncompetitive posture vis-a-
vis commercial banks, consequently only US$1.045 million was utilized and
the balance was cancelled. This loan has since been fully repaid. A second
loan of US$12 million was declared effective in September 1974. As of
December 31, 1975 US$7.91 million were outstanding and US$1.39 million, or
Bt. 27.82 million, still available for commitments.
Foreign Currency - Tied Resources
16.       Export Import Bank of Japan - In 1974, IFCT obtained a p! 10,000
million (US$38.85 million equivalent) line of credit at 5.25% p.a. consist-
ing of five Loan Memoranda of i 2,000 million each. Each Loan Memorandum
has a 20 year term including seven years grace. The loan is tied to Japanese
procurement, but can also be used to finance the local currency installation
costs of the Japanese procured machinery up to 30% of total project costs.
Exim Bank funds can be rolled over during the 20 year term. The amount out-
standing under the Exim Bank line of credit was M 3,218 million as of Decem-
ber 31, 1975 or Bt. 224.78 million; available for commitments were M 5,841
million or Bt. 383.76 million.
17.       Special Yen Loan - Authorized by the Thai Government in 1971 the
Special Yen Loan is disbursed in Yen, but repayable in Baht at the rate of
exchange prevailing at the date of commitment (hence its mention under local
currency liabilities). The loan amounts to Y 3,600 million (US$11.83 mil-
lion equivalent) with repayments linked to project's amortization schedules
and has a 7% interest rate. It is tied to Japanese procurement. As of
December 31, 1975, Bt. 166.15 million were outstanding under the special
Yen Loan account and Bt. 5.69 million were available for future commitments.
18.       Danish Government Loan - Contracted in 1972 for an amount of
Danish Kroner 6.5 million (US$1.07 million equivalent) the Danish Loan has
a 24 year repayment period including six years of grace. The loan is
interest free under the provision that of the total interest earnings
only 3% can be considered as income, the balance being set aside as a
reserve. The loan funds can be rolled over within the 24 year term and
are tied to Danish procurement for the first generation only. D. Kr. 5.63
million or Bt. 18.54 million were outstanding as of December 31, 1975 and
the near totality of the loan had been committed.



ANNE? 1 0
Table 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Statement of Resource Position as of December 31, 1975
1(Bt in million)
A. Domestic Currency
Equity:  Share capital                                           150.00
Reserves and retained earnings                          103.33
Net equity                                            253.33
Long-term borrowings (net of repayments)                         478.21
Revolving funds 1/                                                 27.08
Total domestic currency resources                     758.62
Less:    Domestic currency loans outstanding 2/                  592.52
Equity investments                                        8.22
Fixed assets                                             37.06
Resources available for disbursements                   120.82
Less:    Undisbursed commitments 3/                              184.32
Resource  shortfall for commitments                     (63.50)L/
Less:    Uncommitted approvals                                    45.46
Resources available for approvals/(shortfall)          (1 0c.96)4/
F. Foreign Currency                                 Tied Funds   Untied Funds   Total
Lines of credits (less cancellations)Y5/            914-91     1,233.30    2,148.19
Less:    Total loans disbursed                      46o.79       583.57    1,044.34
Resources available for d:isbursements   ZT58T          649.73    1,103.85
Less:    Undisbursed commitments                     64.67       255.73       320.40
Resources available for commitments       389.45        3974.00      783.47
Less:    Uncommitted approvals                       36.70       177.66       214.36
Resources available for approval          35__7_        215.34 -    569.09
Consists of Revolving Fund so far accumulated under KfW (2nd) loan, Bt 5.21
million, and Japan Export-Import Bank, Bt 21.87 million.
X/  Includes domestic currency loans (Bt 510.92 million), hire-purchase contract
%Bt 9.57 million), and excess of foreign currency loans outstanding over the
corresponding foreign currency borrowings (Bt 72.03 million).
/  Includes Bt 31.8 million of undisbursed commitment for equity investments.
X This shortfall is covered by a debenture issue of Bt 150 million made in
January 1976 which was fully subscribed.
;/  uiis amount is expected to be utilized by August-September 1976 on the basis
firir. loan applications now being processed by IFCT.
EAP Projects Department
?4irch 1, 1976



ANNEX 10
Tsbl e2
INDUSTRIAL FDANCE CaRPAEXO8  OF THAILAD
Features of LonR-Term Borrowings as of December 31. 1975
1/     Uncomitted
Year of       thaount          Balance       Interest  Term of       Use of Funds                  Restrictions, if any,
Source of Borrowing        Aaremeent    USS       Bt.   USS        Bt.     Rate    the Loan    Tied/Untied    Free Limit   on the use of funds
A. FOREIGN CURRENCY
Untied Sources
KfW  -  lst LJoan       1963       4.26      85.25     -       -       5.5%     15 yrs.2/      Untied i/    DM400,000      For financing of small and
($155,000)    medium size handicraft and
manufacturing industries.
2nd Loan        1969      1.93       38.56     -      -        5.57.    20 yrs.       Untied 3      DMl.0 mil.               -do-
($387,500)
3rd Loan        1973      3.88       77.50   0.98    19.53    6.54    30 yrs,         Untied  /    1M1.0 mil.    For financing of small and
($387,500)     medium size manufacturing
units outside Greater
Bangkok area and the pro-
jects to have a positive
employment generation and
balance of payment impact.
4th Loan        1975      5.81      116.25   5.81   116.25    7.54/   30 yrs.         Untied 3/    D11.0 mil.    Same as for the third loan
($387,500)     except that large projects
Total RfW Loans                   15.88     317.56   6.79   135.78                                                         are eligible.
ADB  -  1st Loan        1968       4.91      98.20    -        _       6.8757.  12 yrs.        Untied 5      $150,000                  -
2nd Loan        1970      7.43      148.54    -                6.875%   12 yrs.-/     Untied 5/    $200,000                    -
3rd Loan        1975     20.00      400.00  11.52   230.40    8.757    15 yrs.-/      Untied 5/    $400,000                    -
Total ADB loane                   32.34     646.74  11.52   230.40
IBRD -  lst Loa 6       1963       1.04      20.90    -        -       5.57     15 yrs.2/       ntied/    $50,000
2nd Loan        1974     12.00      240.00   1.39    27.82    7.57.    15 yrs.i/      Untied -      $500,000                   -
Total IBRD Loans                  13.04     260.90   1.39    27.82
Total Untied Sources              61.26   1.225.20  19.70   394.00
Tied Sources
Japan Export-Daport     1974      32.85.1/   657.00- 19.19   383.76    5.25%    20 yrs.        Tied to         _           Items ineligible for financing
Bank                                                                                         Japanese                    are: (a) machinery for leather
procure-                   manufacturing or tanning and
ment                        leather footwear, (b) silk reeling
machines, and (c) sea-going vessels.
Special Japanese        1971      11.83     236.52   0.29      5.69    7.07      10 yrs.i/     Tied to
Credit                                                                                       Japanese
procure-
ment
Danish Government       1972       1.07      21.39    _       -      Interest   24 yrs.        Tied to
free 8/                 Danish
procure-
ment
Total Tied Sources                45.75     914.91  19.48   389.45
Total Foreign Currency           107.     2.140.11  39.18   783.45



AM 10
Thbl e 2
Page 2
Uncommitted
Year  of      Amount           Balance     Interest   Term of    Use of Funds                     Restrictions, if any,
Source of Borrowing          Agreement  US$       Bt.    USJ      Bt.    RaLte      the Loan   Tied/lTntied     Free Limit    on the use of funds
B. DGMESTIC CURRENCY
Government of Thailand
1st Loan 9/         1963      0.75     15.00    -       -    Interest     28 yrs.        -               _                     _
free
2nd Loan -          1963      1.00     20.00    -      -    0-5%          50 yrs.        -               -                     -
3rd Loan -/         1963      0.70     13.85    -      -    Interest      50 yrs.         -              -                     -
free
4th Loan 9/         1967      1.00     20.00    -       -      6%         20 yrs.         -              -                     -
5th Loan (PL 480)   1965      1.50     30.00    -       -      6%         15 yrs.         -              -                     -
6th Loan (PL 480)   1974      5.82    116.42    -       -  2.25-3.257-1  40 yrs.          -              -                     -
Total Government Loans             10.77    215.27
12/
IFCT Debentures -
st Series13/        1968      1.50     30.00    -       -    7.5714-      10 yrs.
2nd Series -        1968      2.50     50.00    -       -    7.5%--       10 yrs.         -              -                     -
IS/~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
15/
Total Debentures -                  4.00     80.00
16/
Bank of Thailand -         1974    10.00    200.00  3.15  63.04   8.0%       Linked with        -               -          lrojects should be either export-
subprojects                                  oriented, Import substitution or
Total Domestic Currency Loans      24.77    495.27  3.15  63.04                                                            based at least 20h on agricultural
rw material and with a minisu's
50% value added.
1/ Net of cancellations.
2/ Linked with aortization schedules of sub-loans.
3/ Procureaent is allowed from any cousttry except the Sino-Soviet bloc and Yugoslavia.
4/ Two percent is paid to the Government of Thaila2d and the balance (4.5% uner the 3rd loan and 5.5% under the 4th loan) is transferred
to a counterpart fund to be utilized for project developsent purposes sauch as financing costs of feasibility study.
5/ Restricted to mmber countries and Switzerland (for MMRD loans) and Iswmberg (for ADB loans).
6/ The original gross amount of the loan was $2.5 million.  This loan has sgince been fully repaid.
7/  Proceeds of the loan are allowed to be used for financing local currency installation cost of Japanese machinery imported under this
loan up to 30h of the project cost. IFCT has not so far made use of this facility.
8/  Income margin in excess of 3% is required to be set aside as a reserve niot available for dividend distribution.
9/ Subordinated to all other loans and share capital.
10/ Interest free for the first 20 years, at 3% for the next 20 years and at 5% for the last 10 years.
11/ First ten years 2.25%; last ten years 3.25%.
12/ Subscribed by insurance companies and commercial banks.
13/ Repayment of interest and principal is guaranteed by the Goverment of 7hailand.
14/ Including 0.5% guarantee fee payable annually to the Ministry of Finance.
15/ A third series of debentures of Bt.150 million was issued and fully subscribed in January 1976.
16/ Against guarantee of the Goveroament of Thailand.
EAP Projects Department
March 24, 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Projected Operations, Resources Requirements and Financial Situation
IFCT's Business Forecasts
1.        General Outlook - In terms of production the Thai economy began to
recover in 1975 from the 1974 slump. Real industrial output grew by 6.1% in
1975 against 2.5% in 1974 still short of the performance achieved in the past
with annual rates of over 10%. Gross fixed capital formation increased in
real terms by 6% only but the private sector capital formation actually
declined by nearly 2%. Private investment in machinery and equipment dropped
by 5% and although public sector expenditures increased at a substantial 20%,
this was insufficient to prevent an overall decline of 2.6% in real terms in
1975 as against a growth rate of 16.5% in 1974. Although NESDB has projected
a real GDP growth rate of 7.5% in 1976 and an optimistic 16.7% growth for the
manufacturing sector, it now appears likely that the slump in private invest-
ment will continue until well after the April elections.
2.        IFCT's Operations - In spite of this slump in private investment
decisions, which is further confirmed by the sharp decline in the number and
size of applications presented to and approved by the Board of Investments,
IFCT's operations have risen unabated and net loan approvals in current
amounts increased by 12% in 1975 over their unprecedented volume of Bt 704
million in 1974.  One factor accounting for this sustained growth in IFCT's
business has been the availability of significant amounts of both foreign and
domestic resources at a time when the Thai commercial banks were suffering
from a severe liquidity shortage which prevented them from fully meeting the
capital requirements of their traditional clients. With such exogenous cir-
cumstances now subsiding, it is expected that IFCT's business will dip in
1976 as compared to 1975.
3.        Business Forecast - Indicative of the downward trend for 1976
IFCT's pipeline of projects as of end December 1975 amounted to about Bt.350
million for 18 projects against 44 projects as of December 31, 1974, amount-
ing to Bt. 700 million. Based on this project pipeline, IFCT forecasts its
net approvals to be Bt. 770 million in 1976 (inclusive of Bt. 40 million
equity investments) a 6% decline in current terms over the 1975 level of
Bt. 815.5 million. Commitments are projected at Bt. 731 million against
Bt. 755 million in 1975. Disbursements, however, are forecast at Bt. 790
million against Bt. 549 million only in 1975, a 44% increase. Such a sudden
jump is attributable to the staggered effect on disbursements of the rapid
increase in IFCT's loan approvals and commitments in 1974 and 1975 (as of
end December 1975 undisbursed commitments amounted to Bt. 505 million).
Projected approvals, commitments and disbursement for 1976 appear reasonable.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
4.        IFCT's operational forecasts through 1980 appear in Table 1
attached to this annex.   IFCT's projections for the period 1977-1980 are
based on the reasonable assumption that there is a direct relation between
the volume of IFCT's disbursements for both loans and equity investment in
any single year and the level of Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF) in
that year. IFCT's disbursements in percentage of GFCF 1/ in 1974 and 1975
were respectively 0.66% and 0.83%. The projected disbursements of Bt. 790
million in 1976 would represent 1.01% of the GFCF as estimated by NESDB in its
outline for the Fourth 5-year Plan, or 2.15% of the assumed level of gross
private sector fixed capital formation in machinery and equipment 2/. NESDB
had projected GFCF to increase from 24.3% of GDP in 1976 to 31.7% in 1980,
compared with an average of 22% during the period 1970-1974. It is doubt-
ful that such a high growth rate of GFCF can be achieved and new projections
have been worked out by IFCT assuming an increase of GFCF in current prices
of 10% in 1977 and 15% yearly thereafter. It is assumed, indeed, that the
current slump in private investment decision will show the largest impact
on GFCF in 1977 and the upturn in investment decisions expected in late
1976 will effect GFCF from 1978 onwards. In projecting IFCT's disbursements
for the period 1977 - 1980, it was assumed that the factors which will boost
disbursements in 1976 to 2.14% of the forecast private sector GFCF in mach-
inery and equipment will eventually subside and IFCT has retained a constant
ratio of 2% thereafter (equivalent to 0.94% of the forecast GFCF). IFCT's
projections appear reasonable and are summarized below:
1/   All estimates in current prices.
2/   Private sector GFCF in machinery and equipment can be projected at 47%
of the total GFCF for the period 1976-1980, based on its average share
over the past three years.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
IFCT's Projected Disbursements 1976-1980
(in Baht Million)
--- Actual --       -------------- Projected --------------
1974     1975       1976      1977    1978      1979     1980
GDP at current
market prices       270,017   295,607  322,608  357,876  398,674  444,123  494,753
Growth rate (%)        25.5        9.5        9.1      10.9    11.4       11.4     11.4
GFCF                   59,839    66,540   78,400   86,235   99,174  114,051  131,160
Growth rate (%)        35.4       11.2       17.8      10       15        15       15
Private Sector GFCF
in machinery and
equipment            32,213    32,563   36,874   40,561   46,645   53,642   61,689
IFCT's loan and
equity disburse-
ments                   393        549       790      810       930    1,070    1,230
As % of private
sector GFCF in
machinery and
equiment              1.22        1.69    2.14        2        2        2         2
As % of GFCF            0.66        0.83    1.01        0.94    0.94       0.94     0.94
5.        From the above estimates of IFCT's disbursements, forecasts of commit-
ments and approvals were made, based on rates of commitments and disbursements
as experienced by IFCT in the last four years of operation. It was further
assumed that equity investment approvals would represent approximately 5% of
total approvals and that the domestic/foreign currency mix in loan approvals
will be 25:75 thus reflecting the downward trend observed in domestic currency
loan approvals over the last 4 years.
Resource Position and Requirements
6.         Local Currency Resources - IFCT's resource position as of December
31, 1975, is shown in Annex 10 Table 1. As of that date, local currency re-
sources were short of commitments by Bt. 63.5 million 1/ (including Bt. 31.8
million for equity investments). During the period January 1975 to December
1977, IFCT expects to commit about Bt. 451 million in local currency loans
1/   This shortfall in local currency resources was remedied in early 1976
with the Bt. 150 million debenture issue.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
and equity investments. Against resulting resource requirements of
Bt. 514.5 million, IFCT plans to raise during this 2-year period a
total of Bt. 684.81 million in domestic currency as follows:
Sourc,es of Funds
(million Baht)
Increase in share capital                         100.00
Internal cash generation                           197.68
Net loan collections                               187.13
Issuance of debentures                            200.00
Total                       684.81
These resources exceed the projected requirements for loan and equity com-
mitments by about Bt. 170 million. Such a level of resource mobilization,
however, appears necessary for IFCT to maintain adequate liquidity and
working capital.
7.        Foreign Currency Resources - Tables 1 and 2 in Annex 10 show that
foreign currency resources available for commitments as of December 31, 1975
amounted to Bt. 783.45 million (US$39.2 million) consisting of Bt. 389.45 mil-
lion (US$19.5 million) of resources tied to Japanese procurement and Bt. 394
million (US$19.7 million) of untied resources. IFCT expects to commit a
total Bt. 390 million (US$19.5 million) in foreign currency loans over the
first three quarters of 1976 of which it feels that no more than 20% or Bt. 78
million will be tied to Japanese procurement while Bt. 312 million (US$15.6
million) would be from untied resources. Uncommitted resources would thus
be reduced to a total of Bt. 393.45 million (US$19.7 million equivalent)
consisting of Bt. 311.45 million (US$15.6 million) of tied resources and Bt.
82 million (US$4.1 million) untied. Projected commitments through September
1976 are summarized below:



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Foreign Currency Commitments January - September
1976
(All currency units in million)
Tied               Untied              Total
Bt        US$      Bt           US$    Bt        US$
Resources available for
commitment at end
December 1975           389.45      19.5   394.00         19.7  783.45       39.2
Commitments for period
January-September 1976  78.00        3.9   312.00         15.6  390.00       19.5
Net resources available
for commitments at end
September 1976          311.45      15.6    82.00         4.1  393.45        19.7
8.        Untied resources of US$19.7 million available for commitments as of
end December 1975 consisted of US$6.8 million from KfW, US$11.5 million from
ADB and US$1.4 million from the second IBRD DFC Loan. These three sources
have been considered equally mobilizable in the above projections; however,
KfW places certain restrictions on the use of its funds which might compel
IFCT to commit IBRD and ADB resources at a faster rate than KfW funds.
9.        IFCT's foreign currency commitments for the period October 1976
to December 1977 are projected at Bt. 730 million (US$36.5 million equiv-
alent) of which Bt 146 million (US$7.3 million equivalent) would involve
Japanese procurement, leaving a balance of Bt 584 million (US$29.2 million
equivalent) to be financed from untied resources. The table below shows
IFCT's requirements of untied resources:
Foreign Currency Commitments October 76 - December 77
(All currency units in millions)
Tied            Untied          Total
Bt     US$      Bt     US$      Bt     US$
Resources available for commit-
ments at end September 1976   311.45  15.6    82.00    4.1   393.45  19.7
Commitments during period
October 76 to December 77       146.00   7.3   584.00   29.1   730.00  36.5
Net resources available (re-
quired) for commitment at
end Dec. 77                      165.45   8.3 (502.00) (25.1)  (336.55) 16.8
10.       IFCT's projected net requirements of untied foreign currency re-
sources over the period October 1976 to December 1977 amount to about
Bt. 500 million. A Bank loan of US$25 million would meet IFCT's needs of



ANNEX 11
Page 6
untied resources over that period. If the expected revival in private
industrial investment is slower than projected the Bank loan may last IFCT
until early 1978.
Projected Financial Results
11.       Projected income statements for the years 1976 - 1980 are attached
to this annex in Table 2. IFCT's net income is expected to increase from
Bt. 38.3 million in 1975 to Bt. 161.3 million in 1980 or approximately 33%
annually. This high rate of increase is in line with the projected growth
in IFCT's total assets and loan portfolio over the next five years as well as
the assumption that starting with the second quarter of 1976 all new loan
apprc-'  s will specify a lending rate of 12.5% p.a. for both local and for-
eign currency loans. 1/ Local currency lending to agro-industries, however, was
projected at a preferential rate of 11% p.a. and was assumed to represent 40%
of local currency lending. The increase in IFCT's lending rates will push
net income in percentage of average total assets from 2.6% in 1976 to 3.8%
in 1980 and gross income from 10.1% of average assets to 11.1%. Financial
expenses are expected to grow from 5.1% of average total assets in 1976 to
5.9% in 1980. Administrative expenses, on the other hand would decrease in
percentage of average assets from 1.3% in 1976 to 0.9% by 1980. Provisions,
although projected on a conservative basis, would also decline as a percentage
of average assets from 1.1% in 1976 to 0.5% in 1980. The forecast evolution
of IFCT's gross spread over the 1976 - 1980 period is summarized below:
1976 /a    1977      1978      1979      1980
Loan income as % of average
loan portfolio                10.5        11.2      11.6     12.0      12.2
Cost of debt as % of average
term debt                      6.6         6.3       6.8      7.0       7.6
Gross interest spread            3.9         4.9       4.8       5.0      4.6
/a   Figures for 1976 are somewhat distorted by the projected increases
of 54% in total assets, 36% in outstanding term loans and 53% in
term debt from 1975 to 1976 which directly affect calculations of
average assets, portfolio & debt.
Throughout the projection period, IFICT's interest spread will remain in the
4% to 5% range, substantially higher than in the last four years 2/ in
1/   Agreement was reached at negotiations to defer the increase in interest
rates to July 1, 1977, this has not been incorporated into the projections
and financial results for 1977 maay therefore be slightly different from
those projected here.
2/   The 1975 gross spread of 4.7% waZs partially due to the high level of
penalty income which represented 0.8% of the average loan portfolio
against 0.2% only in 1976.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
spite of an average cost of term debt rising from 6.6% in 1976 to 7.6% in
1980. The return on average equity is expected to rise from 15.3% in 1976
to 22.3% in 1980. IFCT proposes to increase the rate of its dividends from
10% of the par value of its share capital in 1975 to 12% in 1980. This
would still leave IFCT far behind the level of dividends paid by commercial
banks in Thailand but is rightly viewed by IFCT as an inducement for the
planned broadening of its share capital ownership. The dividend pay-out
ratio would consequently rise to 53.7% in 1976 but would thereafter gradually
decline to 18.6% by 1980.
12.       Projected balance sheets through 1980 are shown in Table 3.
Based on IFCT's operational forecast total assets are projected to in-
crease by 54% in 1976 to Bt. 2,271 million and thereafter at an annual growth
rate of 14.6% to Bt. 4,484 million in 1980. The high growth rate in 1976 is
largely due to the projected level of resource mobilization and a 44% increase
in loan and equity disbursements. The loan portfolio net of provisions would
grow by an average 23% annually from Bt. 1,343 million in 1975 to Bt. 3,817
million in 1980 and net equity investments would rise from Bt. 8 million in
1975 to Bt. 299 million in 1980 as IFCT intends to place more emphasis on such
operations. The loan and investment portfolio is expected to retain its
prominent role 1/ in IFCT's assets structure throughout the projection period.
IFCT's term debt would increase by 53% in 1976 to Bt. 1,763 million and
thereafter by 18% to Bt. 3,423 million in 1980. IFCT is planning to increase
its share capital by Bt. 100 million in the current year of 1976. Consequent-
ly, the debt/equity ratio is expected to remain within IFCT's statutory limit
of 6:1 throughout the projected period reaching a maximum of 5:1 in 1977 and
slowly decreasing thereafter to 4.4:1 in 1980. Total debt/equity ratio would
follow a similar evolution from a 5.3:1 maximum in 1977 to 4.7:1 in 1980. The
current ratio 2/ would jump from 1.6:1 in 1975 (in a tight liquidity situation
for IFCT) to 2.1:1 in 1976 following the inflow of funds mobilized by IFCT and
a consequent increase in cash and deposits from Bt. 21 million to Bt. 203
million. In 1977, on the other hand, the current ratio will drop to 1.4:1
as a result of a 60% increase in current liabilities from their 1976 level 3/.
Thereafter, the current ratio will regain a 1.7 to 1.8:1 level.
13.       Projected cash flow statements through 1970 are attached in
Table 4. Throughout the projection period, the debt service coverage is
expected to remain at a satisfactory level dropping to a minimum of 1.6:1
in 1978 (again as a result of the redemption of the 1968 debenture issue)
but rising thereafter to 1.9 in 1980.
1/   91% of total assets in 1975.
2/   Taking current maturities of term loans and debts into account.
3/   Which in turn is essentially due to the maturing of the 1968
debenture issue of Bt. 80 million.



TH{ILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
ProJections of ADDroVB1s Commitmonts and Disbursements 1976-1980
(Bt Million)
=      ~~~196      ,197        198        17190
Tears ending December 31             (Actual) (-------
A&Drovals
Loanst  Domestic currency             216.35     180         205        245         275        320
Foreign currency             569-5.5     5                                 820         960
785'.--90  730        820         980      1,095       1,280
Equity Investments                     29.60       0         1           50          60         70
Total                                    ___. 0  77M          1.030        i
Commitments
Loanst Doestic currency               256.62     171         195        230         265        310
Foreign currency             .h68.h      5M         600           0        800         920
725.06     69-1       795         ZO 1,06              1,230
Equity Investments                    -29.60       0        _45          50          60         70
Total                        2.66                   _ L4    821                       1.300
Disbursements
Loans:  Domestic currency             153.77     178         185        220         250        290
Foreign currency             387.18      i4T 580                66         760         870
5095    75y                              !'MOB 101   1,160
Equity Investments                      7.8       72         h5          50         60          70
Total                        5 5                    810        __        1.0 2
PAP Projects Department
March 1, 1976



ANNEX 11
Table 2
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Projected Statements of Income. 1976-1980
Years ending December, 31                  Actual                                Projected
1975        1976         1977         1978         1979         1980
Income:                                  (Unaudited)
Interest on loans                         117.00      165.35       232.08       298.48       366.36       432.35
Fines, commitment charges and
guarantee fees                             9.13        4.45         5.61         6.56         8.84        10.63
Dividend income                             0.02         0.62         2.01         4.01         7.07        10.37
Income from deposits                        5.31        15.33       11.79          9.12        6.56        10.74
Income from government bonds                0.08         0.08         0.08         0.08         0.08        0.08
Other income                                0.21         4.20         0.73         0.82         0.93         1.03
Total income                      131.75       190.03       252.30       319.07       389.84       465.20
Expenses
Interest and commitment charge on
borrowings                                62.21        86.83       108.81       142.99      176.89       230.07
Interest charges accruing to KfW
Counterpart Fund 1/                        0.27         3.92         8.20         9.74         9.74        9.74
Salaries and other personnel expenses   15.44           18.81        21.75       23.89        26.24        28.82
Other administrative and general
expenses                                   2.78         3.74        4.71         5.07         5.43         5.80
Depreciation of property and equipment   0.61            1.04         2.89         2.99         2.97         2.95
ProV'isontfOr doubtful loans and
investments                                0.52       11.56        11.52        11.00        11.14        11.36
Provision for refund of interest to
borrower 2/                                0.33         0.62         0.64         0.49         0.28        0.17
Provision for foreign exchange risk
fund                                       3.16        4.16         4.95         4.88         4.87         5.10
Foreign exchange risk fee 3/             4/ 0.85         1.10         1.32         1.29         1.29         1.36
Provisions required by loan agreements7  7.24            9.39        10.00        9.39         8.86         8.55
Total expenses                     93.41       141.17       174.79       211.73       247.71       303.92
Net profit                         38.34        48.86        77.51       107.34       142.13       161.28
Appropriations
Dividend                                   15.00        26.25        27.50        28.75       30.00        30.00
Reserves and unappropriated surplus        23.34        22.61        50.01        78.59      112.13       131.28
Total                              38.34        48.86        77.51       107.34       142.13       161.28
Percentage of Average Total Assets
1.  Gross income                             10.3         10.1         10.0         10.6        10.9         11.1
2.  Financial expenses                        5.2          5.1          4.9          5.3          5.4         5.9
3.  Gross spread (1-2)                        5.1          5.0          5.1          5.3         5.5          5.2
4.  Administrative expenses                   1.5          1.3          1.2          1.1          1.0          0.9
5.  Provisions                                0.6          1.1          0.9          0.7         0.6          0.5
6.  Net profit                                3.0          2.6          3.0          3.5          3.9         3.8
Profit After Tax as % of
Average equity                             16.1         15.3         18.7        21.9         23.9         22.3
Share capital                              25.5         19.5        31           42.9         56.9         64.5
Rate of dividends (%)                      10.          10.55%       11%          11.5%       127,         127.
Dividend pay-out ratio (%)                 39.1%        53.77.       35.5%        26.8%       21.17.       18.67
1/  Portion of interest income on loans under KfW 3rd and 4th lines of credit set aside for development studies.
2/ Portion of interest income refundable under certain conditions to borrowers as per Danish Loan Agreemunt.
3/ MOF claim account.
4/ Under Danish Government Loan and PL 480.



ANNEX 11
Table 3
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Prolected Balance Sheets, 1976-1980
(Bt Million)
As of December 31                          Actual                            Projected
1975        1976        1977       1978        1979       1980
ASSETS                                   (Unaudited)
Current Assets:
Cash and short-term deposits                20.85      202.90       88.91      27.83       114.47     119.17
Government securities                        1.12        1.12        1.12       1.12         1.12       1.12
Receivables, accrued income, etc.           68.30       93.67      120.42     145.61       170.64     195.72
Current maturities of long-term loans    213.42        235.31      381.19     514.32       663.38     760.31
Total current assets               303.69       533.00     591.64      688.88      949.61   1,076.32
Long-Term Loans:
Foreign currency loans                     829.86    1 ,218.50   1,655.19   2,080.15    2,507.75   2,950.98
Domestic currency loans                   510.91 -    628.11       722.37     797.48       866.82     921.47
Hire-purchase contract (net)                 9.57        8.31        7.05       5.79         4.53        3.27
Total loan portfolio             1,350.34    1,854.92   2,384.61   2,883.42    3,379.10   3,875.72
Less:  Provisions for doubtful loans        (7.71)     (17.83)    (28.45)    (38.45)       (48.39)    (58.35)
1,342.63    1,837.09   2,356.16   2,844.97    3,330.71   3,817.37
Less:  Current maturities                 213.42       235.31     381.19      514.32       663.38     760.31
1,129.21    1,601.78   1,974.97   2,330.65    2,667.33   3,057.06
Equity Investments                             8.23       80.23      125.23     175.23       235.23      305.23
Less: Provisions for doubtful in-
vestments                           -            (1.44)      (2.34)     (3.3)        (4.54)     (5.94)
Net investments                      8.23        78.79     122.89      171.89       230.69     299.29
Fixed assets (net)                          37.06       57.37       56.38      54.69        52.82      50.97
Total assets                     1,478.19    2,270.94   2,745.88   3,246.11    3,900.45   4,483.64
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Dividend payable                            15.00       26.25       27.50      28.75        30.00       30.00
counterpart fund (KfW 3rd & 4th)             0.27        4.19       12.39      22.13        31.87      41.61
MOP claim account                            0.88        1.98        3.30       4.59         5.88        7.24
interest refundable                         0.77         1.39        2.03       2.52         2.80       2.97
Accounts payable & other accrued charges  52.88         80.94       98.43     115.75       138.39      157.13
Current maturities of long-tenm debt       116.78      144.82      272.81     238.06       324.94     369.01
186.58      259.57     416.46      411.80       533.88     607.96
Foreign exchange risk reserve                3.31        7.47       12.42      17.30        22.17       27.27
Long-Term Debt:
Foreign currency borrowings                736.58    1,154.37   1,522.73   1,915.85    2,345.83   2,789.77
Government loans (including AID)           204.46      199.81      194.96     189.93       184.70      180.27
Bank of Thailand                           130.71      179.21      146.78     115.97        84.50       53.24
Debentures                                  80.00      230.00      280.00     300.00       400.00     400.00
Total long-term debt             1,151.75    1,763.39   2,144.47   2,521.75    3,015.03   3,423.28
Less:  Current maturities                  116.78      144.82      272.81     238.06       324.9I     369.01
1,034.97    1,618.57   1,871.66   2,283.69    2,690.09   3,054.27
Equity:
Paid-in capital                            150.00      250.00      250.00     250.00       250.00     250.00
Reserves and retained earnings             103.33      135.33      195.34     283.32       404.31      544.14
253.33      385.33      445.34     533.32       654.31     794.14
Total liabilities & equity       1,478.19    2.270.94   2,745.88   3,246.11    3,900.45   4,483.64
Contingent liabilities              59.72        61.20       63.55      66.27        70.27      75.52
Current ratio                               1.6:1       2.1:1       1.4:1       1.7:1       1.8:1       1.8:1
Total debt/equity                           5.1:1       5.0:1       5.3:1      5.2:1        5.0:1       4.7:1
Long-term debt/equity                       4.8:1       4.7:1       5.0:1      4.9:1        4.7:1       4.4:1
Reserves and provisions as % of portfolio   7.8%          7.77.       8.8%       10.4%       12.4%       14.3%
(loans, investments and guarantees)
I!  Excludes domestic currency disbursements of Bt. 48.32 million advanced against foreign currency commitments.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 4
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Projected Cash Flow Statements 1976-79
(Bt Million)
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980
Sources:
Net profit                                              48.86       77.51     107.34      142.13     161.28
Add back non-cash charges (depreciation, provisions)  31.79         39.52      39.78       39.15       39.23
Cash generation from operations                80.65     117.03      147.12     181.28      200.51
Increase in share capital                              100.00        -          -           -          -
Issuance of debentures                                 150.00       50.00     100.00      100.00       -
Draw down on foreign currency borrowings               515.38      475.90     550.09      631.34      733.19
Draw down on BOT long-term credit                       63.04        -          -           -           -
Loan collections:
Against domestic currency loans                         60.80       90.74     144.89      180.66     235.35
Against foreign currency loans                         151.36      143.31     235.04      332.40     426.77
Against hire-purchase agreement                          1.26        1.26       1.26        1.26        1.26
Total sources of funds                      1.122.49     878.24   1,178.40   1,426.94   1,597.08
Uses
Increase in fixed assets                                21.35        1.90       1.30        1.10       1.10
Disbursements:
Domestic currency loans                                178.00      185.00     220.00      250.00     290.00
Foreign currency loans                                 540.00      580.00     660.00      760.00     870.00
Equity investments                                      72.00       45.00      50.00       60.00       70.00
Repayments against domestic currency borrowings
Government loans                                         4.65        4.85       5.03        5.23       4.43
Bank of Thailand                                        14.54       32.43      30.81       31.47       31.26
Debentures                                               -           -         80.00        -           -
Repayments against foreign currency borrowings          97.59      107.54     156.97      201.36     289.25
Increase in receivables (decrease)                      25.37       26.75      25.19       25.03      25.08
Decrease in payables (increase)                         (28.06)    (17.49)    (17.32)    (22.64)    (18.74)
Payment of dividend                                     15.00       26.25      27.50       28.75       30.00
Total uses of funds                           940.44     992.23   1.239.48   1,340.30   1.59238
Opening balance of cash and deposits                    20.85      202.90      88.91       27.83      114.47
Cash surplus (deficit)                                 182.05    (113.99)    (61.08)       86.64        4.70
Closing balance of cash and deposits                   202.90       88.91      27.83      114.47      119.17
Debt service coverage 1/                        1.8         1.8        1.6         2.1        1.9
1/ Defined as follows (IFCT is tax exempt):
Net profit + interest on borrowings + loan collections + non cash items
Interest on borrowings + principal repayments



ANNEX 1 2
THAILAND
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of IBRD $25 million Loan-'
Commitments             Disbursements
Amount      %           Amount        %
1976
4th quarter                  0.25                    0.25        1.0
1977
1st quarter                  3.00     12.0           0.30        1.2
2nd quarter                  5.00      20.0          0.50        2.0
3rd quarter                  6.c5o     26.0          2.15        8.6
4th quarter                  6.00     24.0           2.65       10.6
Sub-total       20.50      82.0           5.60      22.4
1978
1st quarter                  2.00       8.0          4.00       16.0
2nd quarter                  1.25       5.0          5.00       20.0
3rd quarter                   -         -            5.25       21.0
4th quarter                   -         -            3.10       12.4
Sub-total         3.25     13.0          17.35      69.4
1979
1st quarter                   -         -            1.40        5.6
2nd quarter                   -         -            0.40        1.6
3rd quarter                   -         -              -         -
4th quarter                             -      -                 -
Sub-total         -         -             1.80       7.2
Total           25.0(    100.0           25.00     100.0
1/ Assuming that the loan shall become effective in the last quarter
of 1975.
EAP Projects Department
March 26, 1976



THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF FEBRUARY 29, 1976
B OARD OF DIRECTORS                  
ChTanr gmasino                                   d Sie trentv
S.-,a Ho.-trA-oo
I
Pomda HTnhtcgkoe1
l                             ~~~~~~~Legal Coun-I 
DIRECT0R & GENERAL                     ~Klttl S,h-Ioth        J
MNAGEREnnern   dsr
|   DEPUTGE RA
MANAGER
ProIcs DrisMi t                                                       Op2 PDerpDtcon Loas &nePrI,ent  Loan App|t-ndnt-iio                                   Researn & Plan-mg Seearal &                              Aconin                     ternl
PT.e Pantumasen (ActPan) Tn DTos Pantums                                                                                                                                Dvoe A-erKnne                                           Digniion Waorih  Offc                       Le (AOfIigt
Llepw,t Depart-et M-ga9e                                              Dep.ty[) DeatmentMage
i   Pdd-og Tech-saint                                                       ch l   tpong PlR-tssi
Chalerme Nlymtha,    Anrothal Techamreon.    Peranee Wongtrakool    DivISion(DvVl t i                                  Vanvdai Rldey                     (Vacant)                      Div   -,Wn Division                                    Payau                V(cant  Writia Ki,dstri
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S     C5                              (V-t)                                                                                   (V-                            Dj-i.. ;., Pa;                                Lgl 
rekul  Sanr Chnririr.s         IVananti                                                                                 Vacan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-t)  Chat SorPeaj-e        Vibhatbabgdy.
Prefessionais  g      Professionals  9        Professionals  7        Professionair  17       Prolnteioeals  3        Psotessianais  7                 Pref-ssinnais  4           Professionalc  4              Prolessionals   6      Peefessionals  9        Professionals  1        Profett--nals  6
Other-       I         Othe         -          O sOth-Der                            2        Others        2         Others        4                   Others        2           Others        4               Others        53        Othters       5       Othe-s        _ |    Others
10                     10                      8                       19                      5                       l                                                                                                                14
PROFESSIONALS            87
OTHERS                   76
TOTAL                   163
1/   Enqaged on a pa-t time basis  The Adviser has been provided oIder a UNDP program which neq,ires him
tO dirda nit time equaily bntween IFCT. NESOB aId gO).
Wehd Ban-k 1563



