77.?a
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1327 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third IFCT Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION
OF THAILAND
Dated December 8, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower), a Corporation established and
operating under the laws of Thailand.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement acceDt all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth horein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Invest-
ment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit sub-loan"
means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the
Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it
proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development proj-
ect to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the
proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.
(e) "Baht" means the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the cur-
rency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Charter" means the act of the Guarantor entitled "The
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand Act, B.E. 2502 (1959)",
setting forth the charter of the Borrower as amended to the date
of this Agreement, and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending
and investments policy approved by the Board of Directors of the
Borrower on May 19, 1967, as amended to the date of this Agreement,
and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(i) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-4-
(j) "Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement" means the agreement
between the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance and the Borrower dated
April 26, 1974, setting forth the arrangements designed to protect
the Borrower from currency exchange risks, as amended to the date
of this Agreement.
(k) "foreign currency cost" means the cost in the currency of
any country other than the Guarantor of goods and services supplied
from the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
(1) "local currency cost" means the cost in the currency of
the Guarantor of imported goods and services supplied from the
territory of the Guarantor.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend .to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five mil-
lion dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an in-
vestment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for amounts to be
expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project, to finance the
reasonable foreign currency cost, or if the Bank shall so agree,
up to 65% of the reasonable local currency cost, of goods and ser-
vices required under a sub-loan or investment for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided,
however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan
or investment unless (i) the sub-loan shall, except as the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, be for an amount not in
excess of $3,000,000 equivalent, (ii) the sub-loan or investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (iii) the sub-loan shall
be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of (i) $750,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any Prior


﻿-6-
Loan for such Investment Project or (ii) $10,000,000 equivalent,
when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the foregoing
amounts being subject to change from time to time as determined by
the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shal3 otherwise agree,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an
Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's
approval, or in respect of an investment, if such expenditures shall
have been made before the date of this Agreement or more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and in-
formation required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, under
a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on
which the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit
sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the sched-
ule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank
of the amount of the Loan to be used for the investment; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-7-
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-
loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of such free-limit
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of para-
graphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank
on or before December 31, 1978.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.


﻿-8-
Section.2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which
have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan
Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take into
account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General
Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder
shall be made on February 1 and August 1 in each year. Such amend-
ments of said Schedule 1-shall include amendments to the table of
premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and
the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the Bank of such
sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan,
of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately
equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of prin-
cipal and interest or approximately ecual semi-annual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.


﻿-9-
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an in-
vestment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower
shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums
specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment
thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount with-
drawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or invest-
ment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by
the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturi-
ty or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the out-
standing amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so
repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of an investment, pro
rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts
to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the
Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources in
Thailand as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project consists in the financing of specific
development projects through loans to and investments in private
enterprises in Thailand, in furtherance of the corporate purposes
of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in ac-
cordance with the Charter a': the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written con-
tract with the 1L.restment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, inc3 4ing, in the case of any sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any invest-
ment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment En-
terprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial t--ndards and to maintain adequate re-
cords; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services to be financed


﻿- 11 -
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and; (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the


﻿- 12 -
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obli-
gations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank sha.Ll reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the In-
vestment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
wise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiv-
ing any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the ex-
tent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable there-
to, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
........(I


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Proj-
ect (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.


﻿(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsid-
iary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as se-
curity for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its debt-
equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of this
Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond the
Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reason-
able action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such
ratio within such limit.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrover shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidi-
aries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than six times
the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Baht debt payable in foreign currency,
such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of ex-
change at which such foreign currency is, at the time of such valu-
ation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt;


﻿-16-
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and sub-
sidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary
or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other subsidiary;
and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and sub-
sidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital,
surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests
of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in the Bor-
rower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Baht) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries.
(b) The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportu-
nity for exchanging its views with the Borrower whenever the Bor-
rower shall propose to make changes in its interest and other
charges on loans to private enterprises in Thailand.


﻿- 17 -
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual in-
struments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Charter which will
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or opera-
tions of the Borrower;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Statement of
Policy without the Bank's consent;
(d) the Foreign Exchange Risk Agreement shall have been
modified or terminated without the Bank's consent;
(e) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(f) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been cre-
ated or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,


﻿- 19 -
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial situation
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or
paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of March 15, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For the Borrower:
The Industrial Finance Corporation
of Thailand
101 Naret Road
Bangkok 5, Thailand
Cable address:
IFCTHAI
Bangkok


﻿- 21 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION
OF THAILAND
By /s/ Sukho Suwansiri
Authorized Representative


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)**
February 1, 1980                                   41o,ooo
August 1, 1980                                     430,000
February 1, 1981                                   455,000
August 1, 1981                                     470,000
February 1, 1982                                   490,000
August 1, 1982                                     515,000
February 1, 1983                                   535,000
August 1, 1983                                     560,000
February 1, 1984                                   585,000
August 1, 1984                                     615,000
February 1, 1985                                   635,000
August 1, 1985                                     670,000
February 1, 1986                                  695,000
August 1, 1986                                     730,000
February 1, 1987                                  760,000
August 1, 1987                                     790,000
February 1, 1988                                   830,000
August 1, 1988                                     865,000
February 1, 1989                                   905,000
August 1, 1989                                     945,000
February 1, 1990                                   990,000
August 1, 1990                                   1,030,000
February 1, 1991                                1,075,000
August 1, 1991                                   1,125,000
February 1, 1992                                 1,175,000
August 1, 1992                                   1,225,000
February 1, 1993                                1,285,000
August 1, 1993                                   1,335,000
February 1, 1994                                1,400,000
August 1, 1994                                   1,470,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
** To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Sec-
tion 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1.50%
before maturity
More than three years but not                2.95%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                  5.45%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not               6.90%
more than fourteen years
before maturity
More than fourteen years but not             7.90%
more than sixteen years
b6fore maturity
More than sixteen years                      8.90%
before maturity


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borr<,ver may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those .set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03 Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any
amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days,
or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section
2.03 of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests
permitted under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such


﻿- 25 -
Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received,
shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an
amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such appli-
cations or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice
such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


