Docwent of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C ,. /6 O'- °AV
kqwrt No. P-4049-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMATION
OF THE
PRESIDEINT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 53.0 MILLION (US$52.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 15, 1985
Thi docmnkwa nsree  isfdan som busd byreie  onl in th pe fomne of
dm  fin   am f snof may no od  its be dodsewihuW           B __



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 16.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -      Asian Development Bank
ADP     -      Annual Development Plan
C&W     -      Communications and Works
Cm      -      Construction Manager
CDWP    -      Central Development Working Party
ECNEC   -      Economic Committee of the National Economic Council
FCU     -      Federal Coordinating Unit
NWFP    -      North Western Frontier Province
PIU     -      Provincial Implementation Unit
SLC     -      School Learning Coordinator
UNICEF  -      United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP    -      United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARISTAN
SECOND PRIKARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries:          Provinces of Sind, North West Frontier and
Baluchistan.
Amount:                 SDR 53.0 million (US$52.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                  Standard.
Onlending Terms:        From the Government of Pakistan to the Provincial
Governments on standard IDA terms.
Project Description:    The main objective of the proposed project is
to improve the quality of primary education in
Pakistan. The proposed project would cover about
14,000 schools in Sind, Baluchistan and North
West Frontier Provinces. Quality improvement
would be achieved by more effective in-service
training and supervision of teachers, improved
learning materials, the expanded use of
assistant teachers, improved physical facilities,
and greater community support.
The success of the proposed project will depend
mainly on whether teachers can be influenced
sufficiently to improve the quality of teaching.
The project would adopt a new approach to teacher
training through the development of integrated
learning modules for teacher training and
classroom use. The development of well-designed
learning modules would, therefore, be crucial to
the success of the project. The risk inherent in
in this innovation would be minimized by the
recruitment and training of staff and the use of
experienced foreign expertise to advise them.
Thi document has a restried distrbution and may be used by reipients only in the perfonrance
of theiroffici dutim Its contents way n ot odwwe bediscksedwithout World Bank auEoizuson|



Estimated Cost: a/
Local        Foreign       Total
(US$ million)
District School Support
Sind Province                       16.46         9.63        26.09
North West Frontier Province         9.61         6.08        15.69
Baluchistan Province                 5.24         3.20          8.44
Provincial Management                         0.93        0.05          0.98
Federal Coordination                          1.00        1.12          2.12
Base Cost                                 33.24       20.08         53.32
Physical Contingencies                        3.32        2.01          5.33
Price Contingencies                           8.77        5.61         14.38
Total Project Cost                        45.33       27.70         73.03
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreien         Total
= (US$ millions)
Federal and Provincial Governments         20.54         -             20.54
IDA                                        24.80        27.70          52.50
Total                                45.33         27.70          73.03
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86     FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
(US$ millions)
Annual                3.19     10.49   15.70   14.14    8.98
Cumulative            3.19     13.68   29.38   43.52   52.50
Appraisal Report:  No.5363-PAK, dated Vay 1, 1985.
Map:                No. IBRD 18616
aI Includes taxes and duties of US$7.51 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 53.0 million (US$52.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Primary
Education Project. The proceeds of the credit would be passed on by the
Government of Pakistan to the Provincial Governments on standard IDA
terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments and Structural Adjustment" (No. 5347-PAK, dated March 20,
1985) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 4, 1985.
3.      The steadily improving performance of recent years was interrupted
in FY84 due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant
remittances, and the carry-over of inflationary pressures from FY83. CDP
growth slowed to 3.5Z as a result of a 6.2% fall in agriculture value
added caused by adverse weather and pest attacks. Manufacturing grew by
8.3Z and services by 6.2Z. Fixed investment rose by 6.5Z, while private
investment increased by 11.5%. National savings fell to 12.1% of GNP as a
result of a drop in private savings. Public savings remained low reflect-
ing reduced Federal and Provincial budget surpluses. Excess liquidity
from FY83 (generated largely by foreign exchange inflows), increases in
world prices and reduced agricultural output, contributed to inflation
above 9%, as against 5.2% in FY83. Budgetary policies continued to be
prudent. Current revenues increased by 20%, largely through improved tax
administration, but current expenditures also increased reflecting higher
allocations for economic and social services. Considering the economic
importance of agriculture, the achievement of creditable growth in FY84
points to a considerable resilience of Pakistan's underlying economic
structure, which is partly the result of recent Government efforts to
begin removing structural imbalances in the economy.
4.      The balance of payments deteriorated in FY84, relative to the
marked improvement in FY83. The current account deficit at US$1 billion
was almost double that in FY83. Stagnant exports and lower remittances
were the main contributing factors. With cotton and yarn exports much
reduced by the poor cotton crop, exports rose by only 1.6Z, while imports
increased by 6.9Z. Remittances, which declined for the first time in
FY84, fell by 5.1%. Moreover, recent projections suggest a decline in net
migration, which is likely to lead to lower remittances over the medium
term. The higher current deficit, together with low net capital flows,
led to a reserve drawdown of US$113 million. Gross official gold and
foreign exchange reserves were US$2.4 billion at end FY84, equivalent to
3.8 months of imports of goods and services.



-2-
5.      Since 1980, the Government has moved gradually to eliminate inter-
est from the economy and has announced that the process will be completed
by July 1985. All transactions will be based on new financing modes
consistent with Islamic principles. Existing interest-based commitments
will be honored and transactions with foreign governments and financial
institutions will not be affected. At this stage, it is difficult to
determine with any certainty the potential costs of Isl*mization.
Undoubtedly, there will be some costs in converting the system, but
whether long-run efficiency is affected will depend on how the system is
applied.  To date, the Government has proceeded cautiously and, while
fully committed to the elimination of interest, has stressed that new
financing modes will be applied flexibly and developments monitored
closely.
6.      The slowdown in economic growth in FY84 marked a departure from
the improved performance achieved during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83).
Growth in national output (6.5Z), agriculture (4.2%), manufacturing
(10.4Z), exports (11Z) and private investment (6.7%), though below Plan
targets, was well above rates achieved during FY70-78 and very respectable
compared to other LDCs. Growth during this period - coupled with
increased remittances - benefited large segments of the population.
Improved performance took place, despite a number of adverse factors: (a)
a world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external terms of trade after
1979; and (c) the Afghanistan crisis with its attendant requirements for
increased defense and refugee assistance expenditures.
7.      Fiscal performance and the balance of payments improved sig-
nificantly during the Fifth Plan. The overall budget deficit and
Government bank borrowing, which stood at 8.8% and 4.3Z of GDP in FY79,
feLl to 6.4% and 1.7%, respectively by FY83. Reduced levels of Government
borrowing from banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower
money supply growth and lessened inflationary pressures; inflation dropped
from 8Z to 5Z by the end of the Plan period. The improved fiscal perfor-
mance was largely the result of expenditure restraint rather than better
revenue performance. Real expansion in current expenditures on economic
and social services barely kept pace with population growth and develop-
ment expenditures declined relative to GDP. Government revenues remained
constant at 16% of GDP and public savings, having risen in the first half
of the Plan period from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, dropped to 1.6% by FY83.
Assisted by remittances, but also strong export growth, the current
account deficit fell from 5% of GNP to 2% by the end of the Plan Period.
Gross reserves increased from 3.5 to 4.5 months of imports of goods and
services.
8.      In addition to improving economic management through fiscal and
monetary policies, the Government took measures to improve performance in
the commodity-producing sectors. In agriculture, all major crops reached
record output levels, with wheat and sugar achieving self-sufficiency.



-3-
Subsidies on pesticides were virtually eliminated, while fertilizer prices
were raised to reduce the subsidy burden. Crop procurement price3 were
adjusted to bring them closer to world prices. Provincial allocations for
operations and maintenance in irrigation were increased, along with water
charges. Encouraged by improved policies and incentives, pri--ate manufac-
turing investment grew by 10.9% p.a. Areas open to the private sector
were widened, most agricultural processing units were denationalized and
sanctioning limits increased. A flexible exchange rate policy adopted in
1982 was instrumental in encouraging manufactured exports, while import
liberalization increased the availability of raw materials and capital
goods. In energy, measures were taken to accelerate the development of
domestic resources, rationalize prices, and improve policy formulacion and
energy planning capabilities.
9.      The developments in Pakistan's economy since FY78 represent wel-
come steps toward the solution of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long-term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, fur-
ther wide-ranging measures to address structural issues are necessary.
Two issues are critical to Pakistan's long-term growth prospects: (a) the
need to increase the level and efficiency of public investment; and (b)
the need to encourage export expansion and efficient import substitution.
To sustain high economic growth, Pakistan is faced with the urgent need to
make major infrastructure investments, upgrade existing facilities and
strengthen its neglected social base. The latter has fared badly as a
result of resource constraints and is reflected in Pakistan's social
indicators which lag seriously behind those of other developing countries
at comparable levels of development. Increases in public investment and
recurrent allocations will not be possible without a major domestic
resource mobilization effort. Although reform of ivdirect taxation
through the introduction of a broad-based sales tax shoild receive
priority, greater reliance on user charges, curtailment of subsidies and
increased self-financing by public enterprises will also be required.
Given the more constrained outlook for official assistance and the
likelihood of lower remittance flows, sustained improvements in both
export expansion and efficient import substitution will be necessary to
support high growth with sustainable external capital requirements.
Improved trade performance will require a continuation and strengthening
of the structural adjustment process in the key sectors of agriculture,
industry and energy. Both agriculture and industry have considerable
potential for increased exports and some degree of efficient import
substitution. In energy, the accelerated development of Pakistan's under-
exploited resources can make a major contribution to the reduction of
energy imports.
10.     In agriculture, high growth has been largely the result of
increased acreage; average yields remain low by world standards and those
of progressive farmers within Pakistan. Increasing agricultural produc-
tivity and diversification will require strengthened institutional
support, appropriate pricing policies, and the identification and
implementation of the core investment program. More effective institu-
tional support should be sought through improvements in the quality and



-4-
quantity of services to farmers. In particular, strengthening the seed
program requires more efficient seed multiplication and dissemination,
increased efficiency in public sector plants and a greater role for the
private sector. The delivery of agricultural credit needs to be improved
to ensure it actually reaches small farmers and tenants, whose credit
needs are greatest. Marketing costs need to be reduced together with a
strengthening of research and extension services. Agricultural pricing
policies should ensure appropriate incentives to farmers, while minimizing
subsidies. Multi-crop approaches to pricing should complement the single
crops, cost-of-production approach currently used. Finally, a core
investment program in agriculture and water is needed to reduce the pos-
sibility of distortions in investment priorities. Programs that are
low-cost and yield quick returns should be emphasized along with critical
infrastructure investments that raise farm productivity. Greater emphasis
on the complementarity of investment programs, especially between agricul-
ture and water, would ensure that priority is accorded to programs that
increase agricultural productivity rather than merely augment the supply
of physical infrastructure.
11.     Increasing and diversifying Pakistan's manufactured export base
and encouraging efficient import substitution will depend, to a large
extent, on a rationalization of industrial incentives to reduce both the
level and dispersion of effective protection rates. The objective should
be to increase the efficiency of the industrial sector by exposing
protected producers to greater foreign competition and to reduce the
anti-export bias inherent in the present incentives system. In addition,
reform of Government regulations affecting investment sanctioning and
cost-plus pricing is also required. The Government should limit sanction-
ing to a few cases of strategic importance, leaving most investment deci-
sions to the private sector, which is better able to assess investment
opportunities. Cost-plus pricing arrangements, which provide insufficient
incentives to minimize costs or allocate capital efficiency, should be
replaced by market-oriented approaches which better reflect supply,demand
conditions and provide adequate incentives for reinvestment and opera-
tional efficiency.
12.     In the energy sector issues need to be addressed in three broad
areas: (a) investment and development; (b) pricing; (c) institutional
strengthening. To date, the Government's power generation program, as
well as other investments in the sector, have not been based on a long-
term least-cost development plan. Given the likelihood of domestic
resource constraints and persistent power shortages, the Government should
ensure that future investments conform to such a plan and that a core
investment program is insulated from uncertainties inherent in the budget-
ing process. The present gas producer pricing formula for new discoveries
should be adjusted to provide adequate incentives to attract private
sector exploration. Consumer gas prices, which were maintained artifi-
cially low to encourage the substitution of gas for imported oil, have
resulted in a considerable distortion of relative prices and uneconomic



-5-
use of gas. The Government's policy is to increase gas prices to reach
two-thirds of fuel oil parity by FY88 and since 1982, price increases have
averaged 15Z p.a. in dollar terms. The Government needs to meet its FY88
objective and move to full parity as soon thereafter as possible.
Electricity -ariffs, which are currently below long-run marginal cost,
should be adjusted to reflect this cost, not only to ensure efficient use
of electricity and encourage energy conservation, but also to mobilize
additional funds to meet the substantial resources required by the power
investment program. Finally, the Government should consider increasing
autonomy of public enterprises in the energy sector to improve their
efficiency and should continue efforts to strengthen energy planning and
policy coordination.
13.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY83-88) articulated a pragmatic
strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development which included an
expanded role for the private sector, increased public development expen-
ditures and increased allocations for energy, agriculture, irrigation and
the social sectors. Although the size and composition of the Plan are
appropriate, development expenditures during the first two years of the
Plan will be 9Z lower than the amounts projected because of insufficient
domestic resource mobilization. Although this would not appear overly
large, the way in which sectoral shortfalls have been distributed con-
tradicts Plan priorities. Education, energy, health and agriculture,
received considerably lower allocations than called for in the Plan.
Furthermore, without a pre-defined core investment program, there is a
tendency to distribute shortfalls evenly over a large number of projects
within a sector; too many projects are initiated and projects that should
receive priority are underfunded. In order to address this issue,
Government has announced the re-introduction of a Three-Year Priority
Investment Program (FY86-88). The Government has emphasized that the
adoption of a rolling medium-term program does not mean plan strategies
and priorities are being revised, or that shortfalls are considered
inevitable. The Program will identify sectoral core investment programs
which will be given priority in formulating annual plans. By protecting
priority investments, especially in key areas, the effectiveness of the
public investment program would be enhanced and priorities sharpened.
14.     Despite the temporary setback in FY84, the improved performance
and policy framework set in mocion during the Fifth Plan, which the
*          Government intends to continue during the Sixth Plan, have improved
Pakistan's creditworthiness for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing and
commercial borrowing. At the end of calendar year 1983, Pakistan's exter-
nal public debt (excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$9.8
billion, of which USS4.7 billion was owed to bilateral members of the
Pakistan consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC, US$2 billion to multilateral
agencies, and the balance, to other bilateral and private lenders. In
1983, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness
was 15.32 and in external debt service was 7.0X. Bank projections indi-
cate that, provided recent policy improvements are sustained and struc-



-6-
tural issues addressed, Pakistan's debt service would remain below 15%
during the reminder of the 1980s, even with somewhat higher levels of
commercial borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN 1/
15.    The cumulative total of Bank/IDM commitments to Pakistan
(exclusive of Loans and Credits or portions thereof which were disbursed
in the former East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$3.2 billion.
During its long association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been
involved in most sectors of the economy. This has included its involve-
ment with other donors, over a 20-year period, in the major program of
works to develop the water resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately
30% of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been for agriculture
and irrigation; 282 for industry including import program credits; 18Z for
transport, telecommunications and public utility services; 14X for energy
including power, gas pipelines and petroleum; 5% for social programs in
education, population and urban development; and 5X for structural adjust-
ment lending and technical assistance.
16.     In the current period, the Bank's assistance strategy is to sup-
port the Government of Pakistan's efforts to formulate and implement
policy reforms in three sectors-energy, industry, agriculture-which
shape the structural adjustment process in the economy. At the same time
and in order to ensure that the gains from adjustment are sustained in the
long term and shared more broadly, the strategy also includes investments
in physical infrastructure and the social sectors (education, population
etc.) which have been neglected in Pakistan's development efforts. To
succeed, this strategy requires a flexible deployment of the full range of
traditional instruments of Bank support - sector work and active policy
dialogue, policy and project based lending, technical assistance and aid
co-ordination. The Bank Group's lending program comprises two components.
The larger project-based component supports specific high priority inves'-
ments in productive sectors and physical and social infrastructure.  ..e
smaller but strategic component focusses on policy reforms in the key
sectors of agriculture, industry and energy, relying heavily on high
quality economic and sector work. The strategy includes a series of
technical assistance credits to finance studies and formulate action
programs for policy reform. The experience with the first of these has
been extremely positive. Through the annuel Country Economic Meworandum,
we aim to foster a greater understanding among Consortium members of the
1/ Part II is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
P-3940-PAK (Fourth WAPDA Power Project) dated February 13, 1985.



-7-
Government's structural adjustment program and aid requirements, which
coupled with increased co-financing should enhance the policy relevance
and effecLiveness of other official aid and help attract additional
resources to Pakistan from non-concessional sources.
17.     Histrrically, the Bank Group has placed special emphasis on lend-
ing for agriculture which is the mainstay of the Pakistan economy. The
Bank and the Government are in agreement on the main elements of a
strategy which underpins lending in the sector. In recent years, the
objective has been to increase agricultural productivity through improve-
ments in the efficiency of the irrigation system and supporting agricul-
tural services. Among the issues being addressed are: the balance
between short-gestation projects and longer term expenditures,
rationalization of input and output prices, marketing, improvements in
operation and maintenance, cost recovery, and a wider role for the private
sector. Projects in the sector have ranged from irrigation/drainage to
agricultural inputs, research and extension and have included institution
building components. Overall, progress in agriculture has been
satisfactory.
18.     In industry, the strategy has two complementary aspects: to
strengthen and broaden the process of structural adjustment in Pakistan's
industrial sector and to support the Government's efforts to revitalize
the private sector through the provision of industrial finance. The
industrial reform program is designed to improve the competitiveness of
the sector in order to promote export expansion and import substitution.
Issues being addressed include trade and industrial incentives;
deregulation; efficiency of public enterprises; pricing decontrol; and
improvements in the credit delivery system. Projects have included lines
of credits to DFCs and other financial intermediaries which has been
mainly for the private sector, totaling US$488.5 million. Direct lending
for industry has also included assistance to three large fertilizer plants
and a refinery engineering loan. As of Harch 31, 1985, IFC has made
investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises totaling US$191.24 million of which
US$179.91 million was by way of loans and US$11.33 million by equity
participation (these are shown in Annex II). While individual operations
have generally achieved their objectives, the agenda for overall reform in
industry remains formidable.
19.     Following progress on a number of major sector issues as a result
of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) process in 1981/82, our lending
program in energy is expanding rapidly. The overall objective is to
expand domestic supply from all energy subsectors while simultaneously
increasing the efficiency of energy use through appropriate pricing,
conservation and other demand management measures. No less central have
been efforts to strengthen key institutions in the sector. In power the
Bank has assisted both the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) in both power generation
and transmission; the sector has also been assisted by the construction



-8-
under the Indus Basin Development Program of MangLa and Tarbela Dams. In
oil and gas, the Bank has financed operations which support a sound
exploration and development program and has assisted in the development of
the extensive gas transmission system. Smaller operations, mostly of an
engineering and technical assistance nature, have supported coal
exploration, energy audits and oil refining. Despite much progress,
however, the Bank will need to continue its participation in institution
building in concert with efforts to assist the Government mobilize ade-
quate funds for energy investments through tariffs, co-financing, and
greater private sector participation.
20.     Bank Group lending for transport and communications has focussed
both on new capital investments and on improving the efficiency of erist-
ing assests. Operations have also focussed on strengthening the institu-
tions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department and federal and
provincial highways agencies. However, recent analysis has identified
transport infrastructure as a critical constraint to over-all growth, due
in large measure to a running down of infrastructure stock. In the future
the balance between rnew investments and operation and maintenance and
among various modes will need to receive greater attention.
21.     With an over-all literacy rate of only 25Z, a population growth
rate of about 3Z, and rapid urbanization, Pakistan faces a formidable
development agenda in the social sectors. The Bank has supported the
Government's programs in education through five credits totaling some
US$62.5 million designed to upgrade primary, post secondary and higher
technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of primary
teachers and agricultural extension agents. The foc-.s has and will con-
tinue tG be on the lower end of the education system (primary, secondary,
technical and non-formal education including literacy) A first population
project designed to expand demand for population control services was
approved in FY83. In the urban and water supply sector, the Bank has
financed four projects. Besides providing urban services, these opera-
tions are addressing, among other issues, improved local resource mobi-
lization and cost recovery, improved planning and efficiency of resource
utilization; and urban manage:rent especially at the Provincial and
Municipal levels.
22.     With respect to policy-based lending, a SAL operation was approved
in June 1982. The SAL program consisted of a number of significant
reforms in government development planning and in policies and programs in
the agriculture, energy and industrial sectors. The loan was fully dis-
bursed at the end of FY83 and achieved significant progress in the above
areas. In the next few years, continuing support to the structural
adjustmenr proces; is envisioned under sector loans.
23.    Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits as of March 31, 1985. Credit and loan disbursements have been
generally satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due
to protracted government procedures for project approval, which are being



addressed, and to slowness in the procurement of goods and services.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration
to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in the
case of some projects.
24.     A number of operations are currently under preparation or are
being appraised. These include projects for power transmission and
generation; oil and gas exploration and development; coal development;
lines of credit for industrial finance for the private sector, industrial
subsector restructuring, balancing and modernization; irrigation/drainage,
agricultural inputs and services; primary and informal education; urban
development and water supply. In addition to a recently approved energy
sector loan, sectoral loans which would support further structural adjust-
ment in industry and agriculture are being discussed with the Government.
Where successful, these sector loans would provide a policy umbrella for
projects in those sectors. To assist the Government to finance agricul-
tural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange
component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases is
justified.
25.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the
basis for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, the sector loans now being prepared, and
for the co-ordination of external assistance within the Pakistan
CGnsortium. The work program emphasizes resource mobilization, structural
adjustment in the three key sectors, and physical and social
infrastructure.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR AND PRIMARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
Introduction
26.     Despite commendable economic progress since the late 1970s,
Pakistan remains affected by a weak social infrastructure which is clearly
reflected in its poor social indicators. Improved economic performance
has not been matched by similar achievements in controlling population
growth or increasing literacy levels. The growth in primary school
enrollments during the Fifth Plan barely kept pace with population growth,
which remains at about 3% p.a., resulting in a nearly static adult
literacy level of 22Z. Inequities in educational opportunities for girls
compared to boys and in rural compared to urban areas have been accen-
tuated rather than diminished during the same period. As a result,
Pakistan is faced with the urgent need to strengthen its neglected social
base not only to achieve a more equitable diatribution of the benefits of
economic growth but also to lay the foundations for sustained economic
growth over the long run.



-10-
Government Programs and Policies for the Education Sector
27.     As compared with other developing countries, Pakistan has allo-
cated a very low percentage of its GDP or public sector outlays to
education. The consequences are clearly manifested in low Levels of
literacy and education opportunities, and the poor quality of education at
all levels. Recognizing this the Sixth Plan (FY84-88) proposed a sharp
change in sectoral priorities and a considerable increase in development
spending on education compared to the Fifth Plan. The Sixth Plan strategy
emphasized: (i) primary and secondary education; (ii) the launching of a
mass literacy program; (iii) lower spending on higher education combined
with attempts to improve quality; and (iv) increasing the enrollment of
girls and education facilities in rural areas. With respect to develop-
ment spending, the Sixth Plan called for an increase of 200Z over the
level achieved during the Fifth Plan, which would raise the share of
education from 4.6% to 8.3Z of total ADP outlays.
28.     The Sixth Plan set ambitious targets for primary education.  These
included 90% enrollment of boys and 60% enrollment of girls, for a
national average enrollment ratio of 75Z of the primary school age group
by the end of the Plan period. Five years of education would be made
obligatory. The additional enrollment in Grades I through V were expected
to be about 5.6 million representing an increase of more than 81% over
present enrollments. To accommodate this large increase, 40,000 new
mosque schools were to be opened under the Special Development Program for
Primary Education and 24,000 primary schools were to be improved. The
Plan proposed to meet this objective by using the moisques to accommodate
Grades I to III and constructing l.uildings for existing shelterless
schools, new schools to house Gradas IV and V, and sheds to supplement the
space for schools opened in mosques. Mixed enrollments wouLd be intro-
duced in Grades I to III but separate girls' schools would be maintained
where essential. Two teachers would be provided in each mosque schooL,
and one teacher each for the Grades IV and V schools. Finally, separate
agencies for the implementation of primary education programs would be
created at the Federal, Provincial and local levels.
29.     The Plan also proposed to address issues of poor quality and
dropout through changes in the curriculum since it is considered too
demanding in the early grades. In Grades I-III, only religious
instruction, reading, writing, and arithmetic would be taught, while
science and social studies would be integrated into reading and writing.
The full curriculum would only be taught in Grades IV and V. The role of
communities and local bodies would be expanded to help improve quality,
motivate teachers, upgrade school facilities and determine school hours
and vacation periods to meet local requirements. In order to implement
these programs the Plan proposed an allocation of Rs 7 billion of which
50Z would be earmarked for the Special Development Program for Primary
Education. The remaining Rs 3.5 billion would be used by the Provinces to
implement their ongoing programs in primary education.



-11-
30.     The first two years of Plan implementation were marked by a
serious underfunding of the education sector which received only 23Z of
the five- year allocation proposed in the Plan. This reduced the overall
share of education in the ADPs from the targeted 8.3X to 6.5Z. More
importantly, underfunding led to relative distortions in subsectoral
allocations. Allocations to primary education amounted to only 18% com-
pared to the Plan target of 34%. The lower share of primary education was
the result of discontinuing the Special Development Program but also due
to underfunding of primary education programs by the Provinces themselves.
Other subsectors which received smaller than projected shares were techni-
cal education and mass literacy. University and college education
received relatively larger allocations.
31.     The Three-Year Priority Investment Program represents an attempt
to reorient development expenditures toward the original Sixth Plan
strategy and objectives, within the context of a modest real expansion in
ADP outlays. The Program tries to rectify shortfalls in the social sec-
tors by greatly expanding outlays in education - especially in the primary
subsector. The Program allocates Rs 9.7 billion to education, which would
increase the relative share of education in the ADPs to 7.5% in FY86-88
compared to 6.5% in FY83-85. Original intrasectoral Plan priorities are
expected to be re-established, in part, by allocating 28% to primary
education, 25% to secondary education, and 9% to technical education.
Allocations to university education would be significantly reduced from
17Z in FY83-85 to 12% under the Priority Program. The mass literacy
program is expected to receive a major boost, by increasing its allocation
from Rs 60 million in FY83-85 to Rs 370 million in FY86-88.
32.     The proposed reorientation of sectoral allocations is desirable
but can only be achieved if sufficient funds are in fact allocated and if
the required shifts in expenditures from college and university education
take place. Even if fully implemented, spending on primary education
would reach only 50% of the level originally called for in the Sixth Plan.
Primary school enrollments would rise by only 2.1 million compared to the
Plan target of 5.6 million, leading to a primary school participation rate
of 53% by the end of the Plan period compared to a target of 75%. Since
higher education is popular and supported by a politically influential
constituency, attaining even this modest, though important, shift will
require external support and a st.ong Government commitment.  Increased
allocations to the primary sector will depend entirely on the successful
and timely implementation of the proposed project and on the implementa-
tion of an additional primary education project in Punjab during FY86.
These two projects alone would account for 40% of the primary education
allocation under the Priority Program and are solely responsible for the
projected rise in the primary education share of the budget from the
present 18% to 28%.



-12-
Primary Education Subsector Issues
33.     Education Planning and Management.  Successive national Five-Year
Plans have failed to achieve primary education targets.  Although each
Plan recognized the importance of establishing an adequate base for the
educational system, the results so far have been disappointing. The
decrease in primary level enrollment ratios throughout the nation during
the Fifth Plan period was attributed to inadequate expenditures and the
absence of a suitable machinery for the planning, implementation and
supervision of primary education development programs.
34.     While planning for the development of the education sector and the
allocation of development budgets through Annual Development Plans (ADPs)
remain a Federal responsibility, primary education is a Provincial
responsibility. Five-year education development plans have not been well
implemented because of this division of responsibility, and because the
Provinces enjoy considerable autonomy in establishing their own planning
priorities. Plans to increase enrollments and literacy levels tend to be
interpreted at the Provincial level to mean the opening of new schools and
employing more teachers. However, if the quality of teaching is low, more
schools and more teachers would not significantly improve literacy levels,
especially in rural areas. Therefore, such investments are largely
wasted. Furthermore, reliable information is not available on
enrollments, facilities, and unit costs. The system of collecting,
processing, and reporting educational statistics does not provide the
information necessary for planning and budgeting at either Provincial or
Federal levels.
35.     Recurrent Costs.  While development expenditures are financed
mainly through the ADPs, recurrent-costs in the education sector must be
met from limited Provincial revenues. For this reason, the education
sector in the Provinces has not expanded as rapidly as other sectors even
when the Federal Government has made education a priority area for
development. Another factor compounding the recurrent cost burden is the
variation of population densities in the country. While the national
student-teacher ratio is about 40:1, it varies widely by district and
Province. In some areas, schools have fewer than 15 enrollees per teacher
while in others the ratio is closer to 70:1. The necessity of providing
equal access to education particularly in low density areas increases the
recurrent cost burdens
36.    Community Attitudes.  Community support and parental interest in
education are major determinants of school enrollment. Children, espe-
cially girls, are kept out of school because of a lack of awareness of the
potential benefits and also because of socio-religious beliefs and
customs. The opportunity cost of school attendance also discourages poor
families from enrolling their children. Moreover, those children who do
attend school for only a few years often remain illiterate, thereby sup-
porting the view that education has little to offer to poor families.



-13-
37.     Quality.  Few rural children who attend primary school acquire
basic literacy and numeracy and about 50Z drop out before Grade V. Most
of those who reach Grade IV are unable to answer even simple questions
drawn from t&e science and mathematics syllabus. The main reasons for
these low achievement levels are poorly trained teachers, the lack of
instructional materials, inadequate supervision and decaying physical
facilities. Pre-service and in-service teacher training programs are weak
and ineffective in imparting classroom teaching skills and upgrading
subject matter competence. Teachers are also unsupervised. The small
cadre of sub-district officials responsible for supervision can manage
only one to two inspections per school per year. This is insufficient to
monitor the teachers' performance or provide remedial guidance. Adequate
instructional materials for teachers and students are generally are not
available in rural areas. Furthermore, most of what is available is not
organized into lessons or other classroom activities, and is therefore not
used as intended. School buildings are poorly designed and badly
constructed. The lack of technical and professional skills at union
council level has produced structures that are unsuitable and costly to
maintain. In the absence of maintenance, many buildings have fallen into
a state of decay and disrepair.
External Financing of Education
38.     Few donors have been involved in financing primary education in
recent years. The UNDP has budgeted US$3 million for the education sector
for the period 1987-84. Activities include assistance to educational
administration in the Provinces, assistance to the Open University, the
National Institute of Psychology, the Academy for Education Planning and
Management, the Scientific Instrument Center and some support for skill
development and women's training. USAID is not significantl7 involved in
the education sector but is currently reappraising its priorities. ADB
will support secondary science education and is currently preparing a
project which would include the provision of equipment including the
development of science kits, strengthening science teacher training, and
the establishment of an Institute for the Promotion of Science Education.
UNICEF has supported primary education through its integrated services
program in nine districts of the Punjab, five in NWFP, one in Sind and
selected population clusters in Baluchistan.
The Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
39.     The Bank Group has supported the development of the sector with
five projects covering a broad front. An on-going primary education
project (Credit 892-PAK) supports basic needs at the primary level so as
to raise the general level of literacy and numeracy as well as to expand
the educational base within all Provinces. IDA has supported skilled
manpower development for the agriculture sector through university train-
ing programs and agricultural extension training under Credit 678-PAK,



-14-
which also supported primary teacher training. Skilled and semi-skilled
manpower development for the industrial sector is being supported by
Credit 1109-PAK. IDA will expand its intervention in basic education by
addressing the adult literacy issue in a non-formal project which is under
preparation. A project in rural skills training is also being prepared
which will aim to improve self-employment for both men and women in rural
areas. At the secondary level, the need to improve science education to
create an adequate base of well educated graduates for entry to higher
education is apparent. A possible science education project, which will
complement the proposed ADB-financed project, is under consideration.
40.     Project implementation has been improved in the education sector.
To date three projects have been completed. The First Education Project
(Credit 50-PAK) which financed the expansion of Lyallpur (Faisalabad)
Agricultural University and equipment for six polytechnics was completed
about eight years behind schedule. The main causes of delay included two
wars, floods, shortages of materials, and sharp price increases which
affected the pace of work. Other factors which affected performance were
cumbersome implementation procedures, the unfamiliarity of project staff
with IDA procedures, and the late appointment of consulting architects.
The Project Performance Audit by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) 1/ concluded that, while project experience has been mixed, the
majoriLty of the investment has been successful. Demand for manpower was
overestimated and as a result employment demand turned out to be less than
originally expected. The Second Education project (Credit 206-PAK) which
assisted the NED Government Engineering College in Karachi was completed
three and a half years behind schedule and suffered to a lesser extent
from similar problems. The main cause of delay was the Government of
Sind's reluctance to use credit funds for foreign experts and fellowships.
The Operations Evaluation Department's Project Performance Audit 21 raised
three major issues relating to the project: serious defects in the design
and quality of construction of the NED College; no provision made for
disbursements out of the proceeds of the credit for local cost financing
of professional fees and technical assistance costs; and the inadequacy of
staff, both in quality and quantity, to teach the student body
effectively. The Third Education Project (Credit 678-PAK) was completed in
June 1984, two years behind schedule. Delays were due to difficulties in
obtaining building sites and the lack of adequate technical assistance
because of the Government's reluctance to use credit funds for this
1/ "Project Performance Audit Report: Pakistan - First Education
Project (Credit 50-PAK)", Report No. 4607, dated June 30, 1983
(SecM83-717).
2/ "Project Performance Audit Report: Pakistan - Second Education
Project (Credit 206-PAK)", Report No. 4564, dated June 17, 1983
(SecM83-665).



-15-
purpose. The Fourth Education Project (Credit 892-PAK) is expected to be
completed on schedule, although it will be underspent due mainly to chan-
ges in the Rupee exchange rate. It has been a successful experimental
project, yielding important results which have guided the design of the
proposed project (e.g. the supervision system, the assistant teacher
concept and evaluation were the main successes; teacher training, com-
munications and dissemination of achievements were less successful; school
building construction methods were unsatisfactory).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.     The proposed project, the second IDA-assisted operation in the
primary education subsector, is designed as an integral part of the
Government's Sixth Plan. It would emphasize quaLity issues in order to
reduce drop-outs and raise overall enrollments in project districts.
42.     The project was appraised in November 1984.  Negotiations were
held in Washington, D. C. from April 8-15, 1985; the Pakistan delegation
was led by Prof. Laeeq Ahmad Khan, Ministry of Education. A staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Pakistan - Second Primary Education Project'
(Report No.5363-PAK, dated May 1, 1985) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. A supplementary project data sheet is attached
as Annex III.
43.     The proposed project is an outcome of the first primary education
project (Credit 892-PAK), which was carried out as an experiment to
provide a better understanding of subsectoral issues and to identify
possible solutions to these issues. As a result of the experience and
findings from this project, the proposed project has been designed on a
larger scale but would still retain an emphasis on research and
experimentation.
44.     The objectives of the proposed project are to improve quality and
find an effective strategy for raising literacy and student achievement.
The major objectives of the project would be to:
(a)  improve teacher effectiveness through the provision of:
(i) instructional guides and training materials that organize
the curriculum into a set of tightly structured lessons;
(ii) in-service training courses in the effective use and
further elaboration of these materials; and (iii) continuing
training and support through on-the-job supervision and
guidance; and
(b) develop low-cost primary education through: (i) the use of
assistant teachers; (ii) the development of low-cost,
low-maintenance school buildings; (iii) increasing average
student teacher ratios; and (iv) developing national
policies which encourage low-cost primary schooling.



-16-
45.     Given the problems of primary education in Pakistan (paragraphs
33-37), the low expectations of teachers, parents, and the educational
authorities in rural areas become powerful, self-fulfilling prophecies.
These attitudes eventually undermine all programs of constructive reform.
A change in the perception of the role of the village school, and the
social contribution it can make, is necessary towards meeting national
development objectives. The proposed project would attack this problem
frontally. Instead of the conventional approach to educational program-
ming where the problems associated with teachers, buildings, management,
materials and curriculum are addressed in separate projects, the proposed
project would adopt an integrated, school-based strategy in which all
components would be upgraded concurrently. The project would attempt to
demonstrate that quality basic education can be provided at a lower unit
cost and on a larger scale than heretofore considered possible. If
successful, it will stimulate local commitment and support which has been
lacking in the past but which is indispensable to the effective evolution
and growth of primary education. Since the evaluation of the first
project was sufficiently conclusive to justify the design of a larger
scale project, the proposed project would cover nearly 14,000 schools in
the Provinces of Sind, North West Frontier and Baluchistan. 1/ The project
would: (a) upgrade educational quality in about 59Z of the schools; (b)
influence the teaching methods of approximately 54Z of the teachers; and
(c) improve the achievement of approximately 44Z of the primary school
children in these Provinces.
Project Components
46.    Expandad Supervision. The present system lacks adequate supervi-
sion of teachers. Therefore, the use of School Learning Coordinators
CSLCs) would be expanded by increasing the cadre and thereby the frequency
of visits. This would help reduce teacher absenteeism, provide profes-
sional assistance to teachers to upgrade their skills, and stimulate
greater coummunity support. Additional staff essential to manage this
expanded cadre would be established at district and sub-district levels.
The proposed project would finance vehicles and, on a declining scale,
salaries and allowances of an additional 679 SLCs and about 80 management
staff.
47.    Assistant Teachers. The hypothesis that the empleyment of uncer-
tified (assistant) teachers, especially females, can be educationally
sound as well as a low-cost solution to the shortage of teachers in rural
areas, was confirmed under the first project. Since assistant teachers
1/ At the time of appraisal, the Province of Punjab had declined to be
included in the project. The Provincial authorities have subsequently
requested a second project and this is currently under preparation.



-17-
assumed responsibilities and demonstrated teaching capabilities equal to
those of the regular teachers, the project would support about 2,350
additional Assistant Teachers by financing their salaries on a declining
basis.
48.     In-service Training.  The in-service training program developed
under the first project identified the nature and extent of skill
deficiencies in teachers but did little to overcome them. The content of
the courses was inappropriate, the isolation of the training from the
other project components and the absence of follow-up and assistance in
applying the lessons in the classroom were the major reasons for the poor
results. Accordingly, the proposed project would restructure the in-
service training program. In-service training would be linked to the
development and use of tightly structured learning modules and continuous
follow-up would be provided by the SLCs. The project would support in-
service training by financing training allowances and consumable training
materials for about 2,500 supervisors and SLCs, 2,350 teachers or assis-
tant teachers and nearly 30,000 existing teachers.
49.     Learning Materials.  Primary school teachers were found to be
deficient in subject-matter knowledge as well as teaching techniques.
Under the first project, only limited provision was made for developing
and distributing instructional guides. In the proposed project, this
situation would be remedied by expanding the provision of learning
materials. Subjects taught at each grade level would be analyzed to
identify the specific skills students are expected to learn, and a self-
contained learning module consisting of demonstration exercises for the
teacher, practice exercises for the students, and a mastery test, would be
developed for each skill. The modules would serve as the basis for in-
service teacher training, as teacher's guides and as focal points for
on-the-job training by the SLCs. The project would finAnce the
preparation, testing, publication and printing of at least 276 modules for
the main subjects for each Grade. The Government would ensure that: (a)
the specifications and prototypes of the modules would be developed in
a manner satisfactory to the Association; (b) they would be developed, in
consultation with the Provinces, in accordance with guidelines, a work
program and a schedule satisfactory to the Association; (c) a detailed
schedvle and syllabus of in-service courses would be prepared and fur-
nished to the Association for approval; and (d) the modules would be used
uimmediately after development and thereafter for such in-service courses.
The furnishing of the detailed schedule and syllabus of in-service courses
would be an additional condition of credit effectiveness (Sections 3.06
and 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.     Physical Facilities.  Most of the classrooms constructed under the
first project were used as one-roo.n schools at sites where there was no
school building previously; this tended to exacerbate the problem of
single-teacher schools. Because of the absence of local construction
capabilities -i isolated locations and the inability of the C&W Department



-18-
to supervise thousands of scattered school sites, most classrooms were of
low quality, inferior design, costly, and increased the maintenance
liability. In the proposed project, construction would be limited to the
expansion of schools that have adequate enrollments and teaching staff.
It is also planned that low-cost, low maintpnance classrooms would be
either constructed in a large number by a large contractor or
manufactured, shipped, and assembled at each site on a turnkey contract
basis. To the extent possible local co-mnunities would be encouraged to
erect boundary walls and to rehabilitate existing classrooms. A total of
about 6,000 classrooms, at least 4,000 boundary walls and the rehabilita-
tion of about 12,000 existing classrooms would be financed under the
project. The Government would ensure that guidelines, acceptable to the
Association, would be followed for the selection of schools for school
building improvement (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
51.     Communication and Dissemination.  Information about the findings
of the first project has had limited circulation in Pakistan and the
educational community. In order to publicize these accomplishments and
the new opportunities being created in the proposed project, an active
dissemination program, including the use of broadcast media, would be
undertaken. This would also be a means of building support for primary
education in the community. The project would finance, on a declining
scale, the salaries of the additional staff required for this purpose,
including one information officer in the Federal Coordinating Unit (FCU)
and three professional assistants, one in each Provincial Implementation
Unit (PIU). The project would also finance 36 staff-months of contract
services to assist in the development of media and related materials.
52.     Information Systems.  Obtaining accurate data on enrollments,
drop-outs and costs proved to be extremely difficult in the past. In
order to maximize the effectiveness of the proposed project, access to
reliable data would be essential. Rather than rely on special studies or
surveys to assemble such data, the approach would be to upgrade the
regular information procedures. To achieve this objective the project
would support the strengthening of management information systems by
financing equipment and,on a declining scale, the cost of additional
staff.
53.     Project Evaluation.  Three kinds of evaluative studies would be
undertaken. The first would be assessments of the extent to which the
intermediate outcomes (e.g., improvements in the teachers' classroom
performance, more positive attitudes toward education on the part of the
local communities) are being achieved. These assessments would be carried
out through surveys conducted jointly by teams of the FCU and PIUs. The
results would indicate whether or not the inputs designed to produce these
outcomes are effective or need to be strengthened. The second would be
assessments of the achievement of the project's ultimate objectives -
increased participation, greater student achievement, lower per capita



-19-
costs. These would be based on the detailed (improved) records that would
be maintained at each site and forwarded to the district and Provincial
levels as part of the regular information flow. The results would indi-
cate whether the intermediate outcomes that are being achieved are suffi-
cient to produce the intended long-term effects, or whether there are
other significant sub-sector issues that also must be addressed. The
third, which would be triggered by shortfalls in either of the others,
would be diagnostic and formative studies to identify the aspects that
must be strengthened or added. These would be carried out by FCU or PIU
staff, or by other agencies under contract to the FCU. Problems that
cannot be adequately explored with formative studies wou'ld be addressed by
special research studies, as elaborated below. The pattern of implementa-
tion by tranches 11 that would be followed would (see paragraph 58)
accelerate the normally slow pace at which the findings of evaluative
studies are applied to project operation. As new insights are developed,
they would be applied by the PIUs in the preparation of the proposals for
the next tranche, and by the FCU in the appraisal of these proposals.
Evaluation units established under Credit 892-PAK will be strengthened
under the proposed project, which will finance new staff positions (see
paragraph 54).
54.     Project Studies.  Research Studies would be carried out to enable
detailed diagnostic assessments to be undertaken on topics of relevance to
the development of primary education, and according to needs that arise
during implementation; these would be of value in the preparation of
future plans for primary education. A Teacher Training Study to enable a
full review of pre-service teacher training, identifying issues and
proposed solutions would be commissioned. Project preparation studies to
permit preparatory work to be undertaken for future education and training
projects would also be started. A completion study of the proposed
project would be financed. Eleven additional staff positions would be
created to expand the existing PIU teams so that they can undertake
evaluation of the project and these studies. The project would finance
vehicles, and salaries, allowances and other operating costs on a declin-
ing basis.
Technical Assistance
55.     The project would finance 225 staff-months of specialist services.
Sixty staff-months would be used for the continued employment of a long-
term foreign adviser throughout the duration of the project. Short-term
consultancies would be needed: (a) early in the implementation period for
assistance on learning modules, probably from abroad (30-40 staff-months);
(b) throughout the whole project on information systems (60 staff-months);
1I The term "tranche" is used here to mean 'time slice' and has no
disbursement implications in the context of this project.



-20-
and (c) on educational measurements (24-29 staff-months). To assist with
the production of media materials for the dissemination of information
about primary education, a professional firm, which can provide both the
specialist knowledge and equipment, would be placed under contract (36
staff-months). The Government would ensure that the terms of reference,
qualifications and conditions of employment of all consultants be accept-
able to the Association (Schedule 3, Part II of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation and Organization
56.     A management structure was established under Credit 892-PAK con-
sisting of the FCU and PIUs in each Province. These units are responsible
for general project management, civil works and equipment procurement,
data collection and processing, research and evaluation, accounting,
record keeping, and the preparation of reports. Though gaps remain in the
staffing at the Federal level, in the three participating Provinces the
PIU staff constitute a base on which further capacity can be built to
enable the proposed project to be implemented without delay. The Federal
and Provincial Governments would be required to maintain and strengthen,
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the FCU and PIUs established
under Credit 892-PAK and, to this end, appoint Project Directors (one for
the FCU and one for each PIU) and other staff in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Association. The appointment of the Project
Directors would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Sections 3.05 and
6.01(c) and (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.05
of the draft Project Agreement).
57.     The management of the proposed project would differ from the first
project in three ways. First, the number of implementation staff would be
expanded to include personnel in such fields as educational technology,
research, information systems, and communications and public reLations.
Second, the proposed project would integrate project management into the
Provincial administrative system. District Education Officers would, for
the first time, play a major role in implementation in Sind and NWFP, and
an expanded role in Baluchistan. In all Provinces the PIUs would have
closer links with, or be incorporated into, the Department of Education.
58.     Third, the mechanism for project implementation and phasing would
differ from the first project to afford greater flexibility and provide
for adaptive design changes during implementation. This flexibility would
be achieved by implementing the project in five tranches, the first of
which has already been designed in accordance with agreed guidelines.
Subsequent tranches would be designed, according to the agreed guidelines,
within each project district of each Province in a phased sequence.
District staff, assisted by Provincial technical staff, would be involved
in the design, and the tranches would be submitted to the Provincial
offices for comment and clearance. Such clearance would be granted only
if the designs conform to the established guidelines. Thereafter the



-21-
design would be submitted to the FCU, where a more formal appraisal of the
proposal, entailing field visits and discussions, would be carried out.
The Government would be required to: (a) ensure that the implementation
tranche proposals for each Province are prepared in accordance with
guidelines accsptable to the Association; (b) no later than three months
from the effectiveness date furnish the second tranche proposal for each
Province to the Association for approval; and (c) furnish to the
Association, according to an agreed schedule, the third through fifth
tranche proposals (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
59.     The mechanism of tranche appraisal would eventually provide a new
institutional capability for handling future sub-sector loans. For this
purpose, the FCU would gradually phase out of its present implementation
management role and devolve this to the PIUs and the Departments of
Education. The FCU's responsibilities would then be primarily the
appraisal of tranche proposals and supervision of their implementation.
In this way an intermediary institution would be established at the
Federal level capable of appraising Provincial programs and financing
priority investments.
60.     Building Design and Construction   The first project demonstrated
that traditional methods of planning, design and construction are unsatis-
factory and inappropriate for a school building program of this scale.
The inadequacies of the C&W Department to supervise the thousncds of
school sites and the lack of local technical and professional skills led
to costly and badly constructed buildings that are unsuitable and a main-
tenance liability. To explore remedies to the problems identified in the
first project, extensive discussions were held with the Government and
various options were considered, from the use of traditional construction
to fully factory-made classrooms. It was decided to procure 6,000 class-
rooms (through ICB) in packages of 1,000 or more. Bid documents would be
based on performance specifications with at least two "deemed-to-satisfy"
designs, one for traditional and one for semi-industriaLized classrooms.
Contractors would be permitted to bid using any or all of the following
construction methods: (a) traditional on-site construction by a large
contractor; (b) partially industrialized manufacture and site assembly,
combined with on-site construction of some components; and (c) fully
industrialized manufacture, delivery, and site assembly. Industrialized
classroom units would have to be designed for ease of transportation and
site assembly and would have the advantage of requiring less on-site
supervision. On-site supervision and maintenance would be taken into
account in the evaluation of bids. The rate of supply and delivery to
sites would be phased in accordance with the implementation tranches. It
is anticipated that such a program would enable classrooms to be procured
at competitive rates.
61.     Construction Management.  A well established national firm of
planning and construction consultants has been appointed to provide serv-



-22-
ices as a project Construction Manager (CM). The CM would be responsible
for the minagement of all civil works under the project including the
procurement of 6,000 classrooms. The CM would undertake scheduling and
costing and develop strategies to harmonize with the overall needs and
priorities of the project. Services to be provided by the CM include
prequalification of contractors, preparation of bidding documents, evalua-
tion of submissions and recommendations on the award, coordination of
building production, construction site inspection and contract monitoring.
The CH would also assist the FCU in monitoring the progress of work, and
be responsible for processing all civil works certificates in accordance
with the Association's procedures. An external consultant, acceptable to
the Association, would be appointed to assist the CH, if necessary, with
the preparation of bidding documents, and evaluation of submissions.
Project Costs and Financing
62.     Total project costs over the five-year period are estimated at
about Rs 1168 million (US73.03 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange
component of US$27.70 million. Duties and taxes amount to about US$7.51
million. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of base costs, with
price contingencies on foreign costs of 6.25X in FY86, 7.75Z in FY87, 8.0%
in FYs 88-90, and 6.5Z in FY91, and on Local costs at 6.5% in FYs86-87 and
6.0% in FYs 88-91.
63.     The proposed IDA credit of US$52.5 million equivalent would
finance 802 of total project costs net of taxes and duties, including the
full foreign exchange costs and US$24.80 of local costs. The remaining
costs (including taxes and duties) would be financed by the Government of
Pakistan. Retroactive financing of up to US$500,000 would be provided to
cover expenditures incurred after January 1, 1985, including professional
fees, technical assistance, equipment, furniture, training, educational
materials, salaries and other operating costs, including office rental.
Local budget allocations would be made available to the project on an
annual basis.
64.     Due to severe difficulties encountered by Provincial Governments
in meeting the relatively large recurrent costs imposed by the education
sector, efforts have been made to reduce the implied recurrent costs of
the project to a minimum, consistent with effective implementation. During
the life of the project, additional recurrent costs generated by the
project would be financed out of the credit on a declining basis. After
project completion, the recurrent cost burden would have to be assumed by
the Provinces. The Government would be required to furnish to the
Association, not later than one month before the beginning of each fiscal
year, a statement indicating that sufficient funds have been included in
the annual budget provisions for operation and maintenance of physical
facilities provided under the project (Section 4.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



-23-
65.     Special Account.  To ensure that project activities are carried
out promptly, the Government would be required to open and maintain a
Special Account at the National Bank of Pakistan, and each of the
Provinces would be required to open sub-accounts. The opening of these
accounts would be done in accordance with procedures end on tzrms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, and would be additional condi-
tions of credit effectiveness (Sections 2.02(b) and (c) and 6.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement _/
66.     Contracts for US$50.000 or above for building components and
vehicles (estimated total costs: US$32.33 miilion) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Local contractors or manufacturers would receive a
margin of preference in bid evaluation of 7.5% on building components and
civil works and 15% on vehicles of the CIF price of competing imports or
the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Contracts for furniture,
equipment and small purchases of building components (estimated total
cost: US3.25 million) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding, following procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Educational materials produced locally in each Province (estimated total
cost: US$4.52 million) and some civil works construction (estimated total
cost: US2.1 million), which would be scattered over about 6,000 different
school sites, would be procured by locally awarded contracts under local
bidding procedures acceptable to the Association. Force account would be
used for procurement of some civil works, employing locally available
labor and using locally procured materials (estimated total cost: US$2.10
million). Prudent shopping would be used for some equipment and vehicles
(estimated total cost: US$0.1 million) in the start-up phase of the
project and for educational matc-ials (estimated total cost: US$2.34
million) to be produced in each Province.
11 All figures include contingencies.



-24-
Procurement Kethod 11
(Us$ million)
Total
Component                ICB        LCB         Other      N.A.       Cost
Civil works and           29.99       2.60         2.10       -         34.69
building components   (28.49)      (1.56)       (1.26)      -         (31.31)
Professional services       -          -           1.86       -           1.86
(1.86)                (1.86)
Furniture                   -         2.62          -         -           2.62
(1.57)                             (1.57)
Equipment and Vehicles      2.34      0.12         0.10       -          2.56
(2.34)    (0.07)       (0.06)                (2.47)
Educational materials        -        4.52         2.34       -          6.86
and training                       (2.71)       (1.40)                (4.12)
Technical assistance         -         -           2.27       -          2.27
and studies                                     (2.27)                (2.27)
Staff salaries               -         -           -         22.17      22.17
allowances, and                                            (8.90)     (8.90)
other operating costs
TOTAL               32.33      9.86        8.67      22.17       73.03
(30.83)   (5.92)      (6.85)      (8.90)    (52.50)
Disbursements
67.     Disbursements from the credit would be made against 6OZ of expen-
ditures for the rehabilitation of classrooms and the construction of
boundary walls; 95Z for other civil works and building components; 100Z of
foreign and ex-factory, 60Z of other local expenditures for furniture,
equipment and vehicles, and 60% of inland transportation of such goods;
100% of expenditures for professional services, technical assistance and
project studies; 60% of expenditures for educational materials and initial
1/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed out of the credit.



-25-
training; and an average of about 40Z of staff salaries, allowances,
regular training, operational and maintenance costs.l/
68.     Disbursement for small civil works and furniture contracts for the
equivalent of US$50,000 or less, salaries of additional staff and other
operational costs, would be made on the basis of certified statements of
expenditures. Reimbursement applications would be submitted on a
quarterly basis for amounts equivalent to US$50,000 or more. Other dis-
bursements would be fully documented. The proposed credit would be dis-
bursed over a period of five years which is shorter than the average
country disbursement profile of IDA-assisted projects in Pakistan during
the period 1972-1982. The reduction is justified due to the availability
of sites, the advanced stage of preparatory work (e.g. the preparation of
initial district tranche proposals and the preparation of bidding document
for the procurement of classroom buildings) and on the basis of achieve-
ment and prompt completion of Credit 892-PAK which was managed by the same
government agency.
Accounts and Auditing
69.     Each implementing agency would prepare and maintain project
accounts which would be audited annually according to current practice.
Audit reports would include a statement verifying that credit funds dis-
bursed in advance for the Special Account and those reimbursed against
statements of expenditure had been used for the project. These reports
would be submitted to the Association no later than nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.01 and 3.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement and draft Project Agreement, respectively).
Project Benefits and Risks
70.     Benefits.  The first Primary Education project (Credit 892-PAK)
provided evidence of successful and unsuccessful strategies for the
development of primary education in Pakistan, and indicated some low cost
ways of achieving both a qualitative and quantitative improvement in the
sub-sector. The proposed project would utilize and extend the use of this
experience. Thus one of the more important benefits of the project is to
provide the Government with a proven strategy for the development and
implementation of long-term program in the primary education sub-sector.
71.     The emphasis in the project is on achieving quality improvements.
Coverage of 14,000 schools, or about 60% of the schools in the participat-
ing Provinces, should have a large impact on improving literacy, lowering
unit costs in the sub-sector, and promoting a general awareness of the
1/ Representing an average for declining rates over the five-year
project period of 100X, 80Z, 60%, 40% and 20%.



-26-
benefits of education among the population. This in turn would have
benefits in facilitating agricultural extension work and improved farm
productivity. Similarly, improved levels of education would contribute to
improvements in health, hygiene and help to lower population growth rates.
72.     The implementation of the project by tranches will give district-
level officials responsibility for establishing targets, adopting overall
strategies to fit local conditions, and preparing proposals for allocating
resources. Substantial improvements in local planning and management
capabilities can therefore be expected as a result of this shift in
responsibility from the Federal to Provincial levels.
73.     Risks.  The most important input component of the project is the
development of learning modules. Without good learning modules other
project inputs alone cannot fully achieve project objectives. While learn-
ing modules have been used in other countries with some success they are a
new concept in Pakistan's education system and there is no accumulation
of experience on how to develop and use them. The risk that this new
input will fail to achieve its full objectives can be minimized only by
the careful recruitment of staff to work as a team on this aspect of the
project, and by expatriate experts with appropriate experience to advise
on the methodology to be employed.
74.     The first IDA participation in primary education in Pakistan was
seen as an entirely experimental one with considerable risks attached to
it. Its eventual success was the result of strong top manngement coupled
with initiative and communications from the administrative and field staff
employed under the project. As with the first project, the risks will be
reduced by ensuring that there are strong management teams in each
Province (see paragraph 56). The first project also proved that under
good management the strong commitment of field staff vill result in a high
degree of initiative and effort directed towards the success of the
project. Technical support services, to meet needs for expertise in
special fields such as the development of learning modules, data
collection, analysis and evaluation will also help to reduce the risks
inherent in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ADD AUTHORITY
75.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Provinces of Sind, North West Frontier and
Baluchistan, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately. Additional conditions of



-27-
effectiveness would be approval by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC) of the PC-1 document for the project 11; the
establishment of the Special Account and the Provincial sub-accounts; the
appointment of Project Directors to the FCU and the three PIUs; and the
furnishing of a detailed schedule and syllabus of in-service courses
provided under the project.
76.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
77.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI -RECOWENDATION
78.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.
1/ A PC-1 (Planning Commission Proforma No. 1) is an internal government
project appraisal document necessary for the Government of Pakistan
approval procedures.



- 28 -                                      AN=1
TAlIL1  It                                       PACE 
PAKISTAN                    WuU~~~RZZFIM  V  CURANI  aIZRASI 1
R08T          cNU  nm   UTSu) u l
zm&b    iwoLb        -4    St         101 33083             min814O
*T1j.AUL~      ArA A PACIFIC           ASIA & wACzn
TOTAL                               003.9      03.9          0.
.UICUL?DN*L                   227.5      24.X3        253.3
GM  M  carIF  (1110                    70.0       130.0       380.0             27.6                    10L1.2
mom   .ooom     - CAPIT,
(xLnGRwS OF OXL EQUIITAIE)           18.0      139.0        179.0            272.0                    567.3
-          *    IL SU1O1
POPULATION,NID-YZAR (HOI10aNDS)   4515L0     8049.0       67125.0
U1M  POP1ATIO  EX OF TDIL)           22.1       24.9         29.1             217                      34.7
POPUMATIO PROIECTIS
POPULATION iEAR 20W0 WXLL)                                139.6
SATOLAA POPMATII (lUlL)                                   377.3
TOPUlATN                                                    1.9
POPULATION ISYT
mm SQ. m.                          57.0       75.2        105.1            166.6                    Z6L.
PE SQ. NI AUL LAD         2 0 L5             218.4        333.6            345                     173.1
POPULATI  ACE SU3Cr=  (1)
0-14 7IS                          43.8       46.3         46.1             33.8                     n.o
15-64 Yu                           51.8       50.5        30.9              3.8                     57.6
65 AMD AO                           4.4        3.2          2.7              4.3                      3.3
POPULATION GROhi RATE (X)
TITAL                               2.3        2.           3.0               L9                      2.3
UNDAS                               4.6        4.0         4.3               4.1                     4.3
CRU33 311 RATE (PU TEDUS)            48.6       46.6         4.0             27.7                     30.1
CRUM DE R RATE  PU THUOS)            23.4       19.3         15.4             10.1                    915
caS EEPI00T-IO  am                    3.4        3.4          3.0              1.L                      2.0
FAKMTL PLANNING
AWRS33. AUSIML (TC1OM)               ..     19I8.        1244.0 le
05ER5 CZ OF MARIED lOt)              .         6.0 /d       ..                ..                     52.7
FOOID AD  OXTN
X     Or 0 R0OD. PM ICAPITA
(1169-71-100)                       31.0       102.0        105.0            112.3                    120
PU CAPIMA SUPPLY OF
CALMXin CT OF  mERU0lS)            8MO       106.0        106.0             97.7                    114.4
PROrEInS (CRS PUR DA)              518.0      65.0         6.0       5L6.                           57.0
OF  UM  MD"IA  AND-IPL           23.0       22.0         20.0 I/          14.9                     14.1
CaD (CAES I-4) DA7h LRZ              23.4       21.0         16.8              9.8                     7.2
mLUZ
IrFE EXPECT. AT SIM  (TEARS)        43.1        46.0        49.8              60.0                    60.4
11A4T 3D Or. RATE (PER TN0S)        161.3      142.0       120.9              83.8                    66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE vATER (20?)
T.tAL                                ,,       ZLO          29.0 If          32.9                     37.0
URBAN                 -              ..       77.0        60.0 if           70.9                     54.8
WIMAL                                ..        4.0         17.0 If          22.1                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISOSAL
CZ OF POPnLATON)
TOTAL                                ..        3.0          6.0/1           11LI                     Al.3
13                                   ..       12.0        21.0 i            72.                     47..4
RULAL                               ..          ..           ..              4.6                    33.3
POPUMATION PE PHYSICIAN           53O4.0      4300.01h    3480.0            348A.2                  7749.4
POP. PU NlRSING PERSON            16960.0    jo38.oif   S820.0              47S3.1                  2460.4
POP. PERU OSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1790.0     1880.0       1560.0 IC        1066.5                   1044.2
URA                              510.0       650.0       710.0 /.          298.0                   651_2
RURAL                           22650.0    12480.0      1180.0 e          5993.4                  2594.6
ADIISSINS PU HWSPAL BED                ..         ..           ..               ..                      7.0
AVERACE SIZZ OF HOUSEr
T,OTL                               5.4        5.3          6.1 /c
UR1AN                               5.6        3.5         6.4 /..
URAL                                5.4        S.2         6.0                .
AVERACE FO. OF PIRSCE5SRoO
TOrAI                               3.1       L28 /I
URA                                 3.1        2.7 ri
RURAL                               3.1       LZ. 
ACCESS TO ELECT. CE or DRUs)
TOTAL                                ..       17.9 11
UIRAN                               ..        54.4 /        .
RURAL                               ..         4.9          . 



-29-                                          AN=I
S -SOCL  ZMCIO  147                                    1
- L       LnWc  xa                   ooluh
CZUNR (MM) 
mdLk      190&       usi*L           AMI 4 IPACIFI          AMI a PACIFIC
-~~~~t rmauwT ur
110*?t  TOT*L                     30.0        40.         56.0             97.4                    102.0
Na                      46.0       57.0         78.0            110.5                   105.9
FUIAIX                  13.0       22.0         31.0             83.7                    s82
inzcmsnAR? bOt.AL                 11.0        13.0        17.0             35.9                     46.0
NAIL                   I1L0        20.0         27.0             44.6                    48.7
-  DnALL                 3.0        5.0          7.0             26.5                    *3.1
VWCATZIMAL (t0S   SC UT)             1.0         LS          1.0 Ic           2.2                     17.5
?UFL-TAOI 3*210
1r3KARY                           39.0        41.0        48.0             38.5                     31.8
80COROAXT                         24.0        20.0        23.0 Ie          18.7                     23.5
AMf  LmACr R71z ,C)                 15.4       20.7 fl      24.0 le          53.4                    72.9
PissEum  CARS/I1OUSAD l              LS         2.6          3.4              0.Y                    10.1
3A01                   Po            6.0        17.1        67.0            112.1                    113.4
TV  c IsIOANs   POP                   ..         L6          9.7             15.7                    501
NWSWPni ("'AnX  N1UAL
XMMEST') CMRCATIo
m MIDOUSAD ?OPMi2I                 3.                     13.7 le           16.2                    53.9
CXNI ANNUAL                          1.7        3.0 /        2.2 Ic           3.6                     3.4
STAL LABOR FRCE (T0W0s)          14448.0    17364.0      25240.0
VUAZ PERCENT)                      8.6         9.3        10.5             33.3                     33.5
AmxcmxUmz (1)NT)                  61.0       59.0         57.0             69.6                    52.2
Isasr  (PEN)                      1:.0        19.0        20.0             15.8                    17.9
PAmCZPAnWK IAIN (ClUcrI
31.5       237         29.0              42.6                    38.7
AilZ                              55.2        50.4        49.3             54.7                    50.9
tFiAZ                              A.7        5.5         6.0              29.8                    26.6
3muzc        USDD                    1.5         1.7         1.8              1.0                     1.1
INCON   07131*23 NUON
PnCE    r PFVI  DNM
-IESr 52 OF 3D0S0E38              20.3 /k    17.8           ..                ,                     22.2
ZcOS  20= OF H IOas               45.3 i     48                                                    48.0
LOWE5T 2m2 oF s305301              6.4        8.0          ..                ..                     6.4
1893* 402 0o                      17.5 if    20.2          ..             ,,                       15.5
FVY ACrD CROOn
ESTDWAU ALS0L0M FOPU? KMC
LEM  (USS PE CAPIT)
URMAII                              ..        68.0 /l    176.0 Ic         133.9                   188.6
3R,A                                ..       47.0        122.0 rc         111.6                   152.0
ESMATED RELTIVEPOV1I3C! OPM
11131 (0$ PU1 CAMT)
ova"*                               ..        34.0 1      88.0  ;            ..                   177.9
RURA^l                              ..       22.0         58 e_              ..                   164.6
ESIMATED POP 818*201O1
POVERTY 1800m LVEl. (Z)
RA-.                                          42. /1      32.0 Ic          43.8                    23.4
Xl;IUL                              ..       43.0 1j      29.0 /c          51.7                    37.7
. Or AVAILABX
MMT APPLICABLE
N O T E 8
.a   TIm group average. for each indieator are popaULtlon-elghted aritmbclc means. Coverage of countrie amoo  the
Indicators da ends on avalab£llty of data and IS not lnform
Ab   Ibal  otbarwui  noted. 'Date for 1960' refer to any year betDwn 1959 and 1961; "Bata for 1970" betwee  1969 and
1971; and data for "Woat RaCnt Tatiate" between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1979; /d 1568; 1  1977; If 1976; IJ 1975; b Natlentred. not *11 practicLag In the country; i 1973; 1 1972; 1k
1944.                                                                                            .       98&
JfUNE. 1984



-5-45-r 50104
4   p       d  --40044  033- .434  - 4            4 Al           P4-
-  -a  .'las".             . %xv-333  414334-133w P-  -44-m 34-
33435.  5- 3*441         05 pn    1434433=W40   a."4 a. -apipla4
40545 90  5-SO  30333 - (43-P0405                       *r Am*3-a
pu  -- id" Pr       t         334.3344  o  *  3
W. 33434454- -3                             -F33            3   .30
- *4-43343  05444j   13,W         034405 ~ 340                   3-a
334  54-    .3430   441   44  Om                      t.390   4  44-4 Am-
g3 4-.3                                                     3    03544~~~~~fl- -   SI J 343-443  304-434343-4             4.5
44    33-53343..      344   .4   -3           04.  4-
t" -    -nd  . .  ....                        ".I v- ~~056 3-4.1a. 0433:          --(400.  3333  5433   -3
034 300   (443  -55)3343553434                           -                                            -WP3-.:  3  ~   ml 510   a4193 %- 3534. 433343 N1   YU
3.40 -(335443.4.1 -twW  4.n3435  55044   40-41  -34 43  344-3334a    A   -dt  9-f--1- - -- WW                                                               _a
_a -O33333 J.                    A 5-3                                              --S  I P  40340(40 -4330 -3-33-0    -1 
- 3055 4-4-40- (03403w3438 3.44  4-54 5344- 043333 30-333433 34-w 4 -333333   as A4                    P - L5 3 s-     0.   34 4-1  02  43
V    oso       n       --    343444.o*o 3    .40331353                                             4 - 04     33 "5-    -       4334.4-334p3013
4-33103  44354330  4443 353844440443305                -J 43.45d al 534  43    434    53                     .1     p ~ -  a.-
333 ~4)33*4 343334 30  -   3 ..044 -533.4    33- 31        04533    -                 4-         I 4.- 0343   1103 a.        -              ..T.-..   -   -   A,~-1-
a.  i4-.5 -%. 33n 4- *5-= 0?3*    1344  3353    443  """"'1"  4-35434                                                       3d-5   440  55-        a1.w p-       . 
4 4045  4 41054    (434   - 44 4   43.43 J-   4.                                      04455       -t A40-4310          - 34   0   -4   1434a    40   53S
..o"-    34                 !                                               -AW44039. na-v 04444- I   3340 - J390  43- -  431.4A-
*45053 4- (4 4- 43 544- 051401,-3P34 a. 31333  -P 3*db1  334.4i 901433.5 -     343  0  44- .04-40   -5-
c43335as -      &143.3 --mo 4    a-345t-d413     3-9  3434-   344343 *0.4                          A.45W- 3334          5      40    4545134- .-300 43
f43.=344    0  30- -.- -34. 31 3~-   4-a44 *34 -W, -                 0533=5Z4 0)45- .,.,-t, 45-O  44~                                      (.145 ..03;        *4-1 .S
-Mtb - .4*3   53331  .-l  -Aft .W W-4         A 304 .....441.4 44.X .54-5303) "-a                                     -~   * 3.0533 04*30  a..343  4345
-    35143  -  435   -   4    333  -(445533431    35430                                                                         *33
0433 3.3 4-0433 *33  W 1 3*330   13-4 ft3 a.s0 A534 - 041145                      o3  3.4   5..44.44   40P .....  1-040  534  0-45-   3-
534350 5333330  340.554-I43531  ;44- A. -                            4431.                      3334353   503503- (305-v3 .43    A35               - .5453355504      S
-   -    -    - g     3543. 4.3  -043J     0.  13-3_ 0*4- 05                                                                              30f.31   .     -3- 1304  
.-3 AA3 *544      -  AL443 04 *033430  -                P_3-     .335  4-    353334   .34   3   44304343030-34434
AL83044 P4103   53454453      4353*4453.43j33                                                               503.4 ...4.            4.-- 35.404 -oi pi3.34.34
a.£34-430 W=                   n-340   -  4IV-34.3-0W   -244-4414   30 -                                                  403-1..05'3 4-3533 415-r441  50
33-3  303031 1  05-4  3  53*543..  .3I3                  -934053 T-   a-   4 44-03 I             -   ;.(--33353   43404 -W   ..4-Is -1 4
05.343  -    3.3345 4334343  .3440532.4-35                                     45504. I.304*4-34.50-d3 s  p.44 1303053    040
*44 -4 P3-    -     , 51041.-W    -404    344 l4 .-   -...I3a    40                                           ao4. MP     s-I  p340. U6            
34-410   433344443-5- o54  15050   43                  .3.1   -   34                       - 1033     0 I- 3  4.43443 W 3433-   W345~    43  34  33
*34334433 4403144.1.93  -310 a... .43    A334 4-113353A. -3P.7 J. 3333445 P-  a13
A. -   .     - "-"'*                                                               -1~~~~~~3445.-  (3  3 3  .0444   4.45  4333*4 J- 353  435.3 P444-  5-4305
A.   '.p3p  A- 534  J3.4  43.104&  4  41440104,33 33f  -1553                           -.430505*4 sun  %.40 '-n3304              -i  -to-31433    3  3.3
"     ,      J4 .   W4 44  344  343.,  W305341 43053        S ..04 3d43533  4435                                                 403333  4-  4.3   33   4*   30
-n-I P- ft-                     I.Q=~~~*3333  040535055  443533Un                        1 .5.Us- 3-  -i 430.3  535- -343333445 53 -5-943
444 34 354334. 53 344310 -  15434...53 5533-333-3*5455                                                       -3Am -             3. 35  435
3135333430 0 50  4.344. -050043503 34                                     1"'455    -  p305 5~   .3  AA4W-5                 3433 3.3 .9*4=d
*04343304 4530534 5  330434433 4  535A3..4354d4 533   45434434                      -0.40   An434-t 5543.2435 334I05 I35- -434
*33J 4534    50,.4 I533534.f *3354l  4             ,434440                    333V,-" -43   443  43410454  443 03433333-J    4.43333304.   --433
443533314-34303 -     ,3w94353  5L.,&0344330553-30.                              M48 33  01.5 q00 A          43343.5J 433  P3 31033440   -5  -0aft
*403533313 4.333550.4403 a 354   3-    d3 50s13403-                                   .3334  34334355.1310  53435    34-1330   34533   -3
44..3.4'5331034032  44-4-43    333  -33343553453                                     -.4  4  403305333I-33433-545  433(44434.3l
*0   05   3.3335  33043333345v   433-    -   -3443  0.3-4-435450   533.3   3    5.4-                                                         45
3.35 neft 3  300   4.4 5-404  31.P"3 304-3  43  410354-                                        --P34-   33*34  Wit-4333 3410334  0      OF3.0   3- I      "0.    W  ll-
W4-   4-33    310     53-                     ~                                         340535  1.33  4    0434344  -   44.34 54341-0
t-m-    4%   41 _"Ap1   A% Pist"t All....    up lmupl P-             414-33         S.4 - 43334-   3  3      I8- "0 4313A13..  am14  0
P-03343=34  3544.31         P.  I.-        tt-o   P-415- 11343    *0ps 3                        4333-44--343545334-3 . 4Z-                                     3403
5434  0343  45054-   .44   3345 -054  54.4-44.   3 504-4-                             -453I-4..33454
*054=*30 34344443310*35 333-0t433                                                        m- 43;-433 334.  340343- T     4-I7
01-3383 3- 5-         53 -4440    33444    3343*334                                      195 =51334 I- -534.4.   335  5-331044.44304344333053
430  -    34443 4I4-135       .M    n""  914-0111" -3510)44.00               I%Pi   al- a 4             -a        -"4  -433 503   P1        3-I-      an           -_
03304343-w3 "P34J"           "W    4041 .P . - 4-r433 05 - J                  S34.  os-p    -t-414M -M                                             - .34.34   40434Vj
J. 43434 3 4."M "on0 303134   0 334444                       4=   331440431_ 33533 3a   a.e 4-504   031   p (1s151-3  A33543334  4W-
4-       103100   - 5  4443104334335   43903 ,4 4334 13      OF"44    4-3434   d."433,349)  -    .3*35 1141- 348    --W344  A3533   *333it] -    -.-v1 48433             -a3
43044-345-5 433434-0 Sq 3U333 414-4345-53334 4334--q -                as .441344-5            - sp P-30*0  403444  3-umo0542  3  4.3540= .3
.4-104334-331*5.3-              "I34 -a  38I1  *34331         -4-5-PA     -   Ott0P                          79MSPf"ap~Pw                       aj
14333W  43134333354  pop4393- MO -44 p40     - f 3.1354-. 43_140t""P              1"Wsgpp  ptWW     n_ w                     _    tV   -P   409. "W       4-         --3 43
30434  4  s34  3353433    -434- 3340  314)4-                                                4433304   0134I3530   4333133
I- 43M344-4144   -3*343334    -5)033443303435443   334540033 45.  4    -                                                                                343   3   3



-31 -
AMUNN I
PAge 4 of 5
ECOUIC D         rZZopw  DT
C PM CAPITA IN 1982: US$350 1j
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCr IN 1983/84 /b                                  ANNUAL RATE 4W 6R3WM (C. constant mrices)
USS Billion        I              1969/70-1974175  1975/76-=140/81  1981182  1982183  1983184
C5P at maket prices             33.68         100.0                 3.5               7.1          4.3      7.4      4.2
Grtss dmesotic investment       5.23           15.5                -5.5              4.1          10.5       9.6     3.4
Cross national saving           4.20           12.5                -2.1              6.7           6.9     24.9    -6.5
Carrent account balance        -1.00          -3 .0                                    .             -
Exports of goods, rS            3.44          10.2                 -3.5               7.3         -5.6    27.5    -3.2
Imports of goods, UPS           706           21.0                 -7.1              5.5           0.7      1.1    22.0
OYPUT. LABNR FORCE AND
PRODUCYIrTY RN 1983/84
Value Added                Labor Force Ic                T. A. Per Iorker
S Million    Z              Million      .                  I!I      I.
Agriculture                    6,652    24                14.1      51                    472    47
lndustry Id                    8,096     29                5.2      19                  1,557   155
Services                      12.931     47                8.3      30                  1.558   15
Total                       27erge  2.679    100         D.6     1o0                  1,003   100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CAentral Coverneat le                          Federal Caverument
(is billion)          S of CDP               (Rs billion)         : of CDP
19B3/84 If   1983/84  1978/79-1983184        193184 If 1983/84  1978179-1983184
Current receipts                     73.2          17.4        16.6               58.2        13.9         12.4
Current expenditures                 80-3         19.1         23-5               62.8        15 0         13-2
Current murplus                      -7.2         -1.7         -6.3               -4.6        -1.1         -0.4
Capital expenditures 1g              34.2          8.1          9.4               34.2         7.0          8.0
External assistance (net)             6.0          1.4          2.1                6.0         1.4          2.1
MONET. CNDIT AND PRICES
1974J75  1275/76   1976/77   1977178   197n89   197918D   1980/81   1981/82  1982/83  1983/14 Lh
(Rs billion)
Haney and quasi money Li                33.1      41.6      51.7      63.7      76.5      90.7    103.5    113.6   146.0   162.5
Bank credit to public sector            21.2      28.1      36.6      43.5      54.9      61.8      70.9      79.7    95.5   105.6
Bank credit to private sector           16.0      17.8      23.0      26.5      30.9      36.9      41.9      51.3    62.8    77.8
(percentages or inde numbters)
Money and quasi money as Z of CDP       29.5       31.5     34.6      36.7      39.0      38.3      37.0      35.1      40.1      38.7
Consumer price index (1969/70-100)     211.3    229.4    256.7    277.0    295.6    331.9    375.4    403.9    418.1    462.0
Anual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                    23.6       8.6      11.9       7.9       6.7      12.3      13.1       7.6       3.5      10.5
lank credit to public sector                      32.5      30.2      18.8      26.2      12.6      14.7      12.4      19.8      10.6
Bank credit to private sector                     11.2      29.2      15.2      16.6      19.6      13.5      22.4      22.4      23.9
/a  Bamed on World lank Atlas methodology and calculated st n average of 1980-82 prices and excbhnge rates. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchbage rate prevailing during the period covered.
/b Provisional.
/c Projection for 1983/84. Does not include    uloyed lbor force.
Ld  Includes manufacturing, -nmng. construction and electricity and gas.
/e  Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal ad Provincial Covernments (excluding Federal-Provincial Covernment
transfers).
If Revised budget data.
L& Excluding principal repayments of foreign loas. Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures al*.
/h  Provisional.
li Monetary statistics of Pakistan have been fully adjusted for deaneciied  notes  devaluation ad revrluation of the
rupee. etc. as fro  June 30. 1975. Data for 1974175 frau State Bank sources are not strictly comparable with THF
estimstes for earlier years.
Not applicable.
.    t available.
March 1985



- 32-
page 5 of 5
ALA  OC W PAIHUTS                                                                     IDRCP48DISE 19POMS1 (ASRUR   1979180-1983184)
l9791B  19U1  19U/82  1982183   1B3/84                                       USS $illion         L
(1Ms million)
Zzports of goods. *FS             2.955   3.U1    3,052    3.416       3.439          aw cotton                    315.3        11.9
Imperts of goods. UFS           5.709   6 U6    6.679    63588    7L058              Cotton yarn                   214.7         8.1
Resoorce gap (deficit - -)       -2.754  -3.005   -3.627   -3.172    -3.619          Cotton cloth                  2U1.1        10.6
Riee                         417.9        15.8
Interest Payments                  -285    -357      -453     -421      -477         *11 othr coeodities         1 422.4        53_6
Ucrker-' reitce.-                 1,748    2.097    2,225    2,887     2.737           Total                     2,651.4       100.0
Other factor payments (net)         151      274      321      195       359
Net transfers                        .   - .           ..        ..       ..
Balance an current accov-        -1.140    -"9   -1,535       -511    -1,000                  UzzrUAL DEBT. DECUSER 1983
Direct foreign iuveaeet              ..       ..       .
[et eX brroing                                                                                                              SS milliou
Diabursements                   1,134     956    1.102    1,301      1,248
Amortizatioo                     -310    -516    -492       -386    -X 9           Public debt, including guranteed        9,755.0
Sub-total                         824      440      610      915       679         Non-guar ateed private debt L              B
Transactiona with  M  /a             78      315      358      413        -1           Total outstanding and disbursed       9,755.0
Other items .e.i. lb                600      546      318      285       142
Increase in reserves (-)           -362    -310       249   -1.102       1S0           DST SBVICC RAI Pot 19F2183 If
Cross reserves (end year) le        748    1,05B      809    1,911     1.731 :
Petroleum  imports ld             1.079    1.535    1,710    1.610     1.4Z3         Public debt. including guaranteed          13.1
Petrolm  exparts rd                 178      126      194       77        40         ron-guarteed private debt
Total                                 13M1
RATE OF EXCUNG                                                                          IDImA LUSIG (Deceber 193) (SS million)
Through NOT 11. 1972               From Kay 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                       lD         IlE
1155 - Re 4.7619                          USS1 - Res 11.00                        Outstanding ad disbursed             350.7   1,144.7
Rs I - US1SO.21                           Rs 1 - U5S009                           Undisbureed                          197.0    617.2
Outstanding including udisbaraed   547.7  1,761.9
Frm Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982   From July 1981-June 1982 Lk        From July 1982-Jane 1983 l       From July 1903-June 1984 L
USS 1 - Rs 9-90                      USSI - Rs 10.55                uSSI - Rs 12.75                  USSI - Ra 13.50
Rs  I - RSSO-10                      Rs 1 - DSSO.095                Rs 1 - DSS0_078                  Rs I    ISS0074
l   Including Trust Fund.
1b  Including net sbort-term borrowing and errors and emissions.
fe Excluding gold reserves of about 1.8 uillion troy ounces.
Id Crude and derivatives.
fe Iou-guaanteed private debt erwice is negligible.
lf Ratio of actual debt service to ezports of goods, factor and nom-factor services; debt service includes 1S charges.
LL Effective January 8. 1982, the rupee is to be usnaged with reference to a veighted basket of currencies. The swerage
excbange rate abowe is vis-a-vi US$ for the period shown.
Not available.
Marcb 19B5



- 33 -
ANNlX l
Page 1
STATUS OF RAN CROUP OPUATlONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEmuT OF MM LOANS AND IDA CREDmITS (as of March 31- 1985) 1l
WS illioan)
rloan                                                  (Amot net of ccncellations)
Credit   Fiscal                                                                Uodis-
Number     Year    Purpose                             hank   TV      IDA      bursed
Ninety-eight 'loa   and credits fully disbursd lb    781.4  32.0  1,001 6/f
648       1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)      -              14.0      3.5
1366T     1977   Punjab Livestock Development         -      10.0     -         3.5
754       1978   Salinity Control & Reclamtion         -              70.0     66.8
813       1978  Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dew.              -              12.5      4.2
877       1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Marden)    -               60.0     53.6
892       1979   Primary Education                     -              10.0      3.9
922       1979   Sind Agricultural Extension          -                9.0      4.6
968       1980   Third WAPDk Power                     -              45.0      6.4
974       1980   Third Higbwa                          -              50.0     20.7
1019      1980   PIIC Industrial Development          -               40.0      3.7
1109/e   1981   Vocational Training                    -              25.0      8.4
1113ke   1981   Smll Industries                       -               30.0      0.4
1157ke   1981   Grain Storage                          -              32.0     16.7
1158ke   1981   Agricultura Research                  -               24.0     15.1
1163k    1981   On-Fam Water Management                -              41.0     13.0
11861e    1982  Industrial Developmnt (IMP U)         -               30.0      4.8
2122      1982  Fourth Telecomunication                40.0           -        13.8
2172      1982   Fertilizer Ildustry Rehabilitation   38.5            -        26.5
2247      1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities      10.2           -        10.0
2305      1983   Agricultural Dew. (ADBP V)            10.0           -         5.9
2324      1983   Fifth Sni Northern Gas Pipelines      43.0           -        42.2
1239ke   1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -                40.0     25.2
1243ke   1982  Baluchistan Minor Irrig- & Agr-        -               14.0     10.6
1256ke   1982   Technical Assistance                   -               7.0      4.7
1278ke   1982   Eleventh Railway Project               -              50.0     39.5
1348e    1983   Lahore Urban Development              -               16.0     14.0
1350ke   1983   Population                            -               18.0     14.1
1355ke   1983   Coal Engineering                       -               7.0      6.3
1374ke   1983   Karachi Water Supply                  -               25.0     22.0
1375ke   1983  Fourth Drainage                        -               65.0     58.8
1380k    1983   Agricultural Development (AUSP V)   -                 47.8     17.2
2218  -  1983   Refinery Engineering Project           12.0           -         9.0
2351      1984   Petroleum Exploration                 51.5           -        48.5
2374      1984   Second Toot Oil and Cas Developmnt 30.0              -        24.2
2380      1984   Industrial Investment Credit          50.0           -        49.9
1439ke   1984   Industrial Investment Credit           -              50.0     44.6
1461/e    1984   Integrated Eill Farming Development -                21.0     19.9
1480ke   1984   Second Technical Assistance            -               7.0      6.5
1487      1986   Co ozsd Water  anagent                -              46.5     43.3
1499      1984   Second Small Industries              -               50.0     44.0
1532/e   1985   Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1   -                150.0    15D.0
1533/e   1985   Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -                 8.3      8.3
2499L   i985   Fourth WAPDA Power                     100.0           -       100.0
Total                                               1,166.6  42.0  2.115.9  1,088.3
of which hba  been repaid                           490.2   3.8     39.8
Total now outstanding                                 676.4  38.2  2,076.1
Amount sold                 23.9
of which has been repaid   23.9
_ Total now held by Bank and IDALd                                               676.4  38.2  2.076.1
Total undisbursed                                     330.0  3J5    754.8  1.088.3
/a  rhe status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
end circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan wbich have mow been taken over by BDaglsdeshb
fc  Not yet effective.
/d  Prior to exchange sdjustment.
/e  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenl alent denominated in SDRc. The principal
is shown in IS$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed aunmt   are
computed at the mrket rate on dates of disbursemets.
Lf  By naing the msrket rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAZ and Credit 1255-PAZ (botb fully disbursed) is
$4.5 and $77.5, respectively.



- 34 -
ANNXE II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31., 1985)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Oblifor               Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.         Products              0.63     -         0.63
1959     Adsmjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles              0.75     -         0.75
1962-   Gharibval Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.       Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1963-    PICIC                 Development
1969-                          Financing              -      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       19.25    0.84      20.09
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Davood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers           1.00    2n92      3.92
1979    Nilkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.36      2.76
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         Petrochemicals       29.00    2.04     31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78      -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            Particle Board        2.70     -         2.70
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.16      3.31
1982     Asbestos              Cement                4.02     -         4.02
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals       99.32    1.56    100.88
1985     National Dev.         money and
Leasing Corp.         Capital Market.      3.44    0.38       3.82
Total Gross Commitments                   179.91   11.33    191.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales              131.59    0.38    131.97
Tota' Commitments Nov Held by IFC          48.32   10.95     59.27
Undisbursed (including participants)       68.70    0.70     69.40



-35-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:              Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:
18 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Education
5c) Date of first mission to consider the project:
December 1983
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 1984
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1985
Section II:             Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:            Special Conditions
(a) Tranche proposals to be designed in accordance
with guidelines acceptable to the Association;
second tranche proposal for each Province to be
furnished for IDA approval ne later than three
months after credit effectiveness; third through
fifth proposals to be furnished in accordance
with an agreed schedule (paragraph 58);



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)  Government to furnish to IDA, at least
one month before the beginning of each fiscal
year, statement indicating that sufficient O&H
funds for physical facilities have been included
in annual budget provisions (paragraph 64).
The following would be additional conditions
of effectiveness (paragraph 75):
Ci) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document
for the project;
(ii) establishment of the Special Account
and Provincial sub-accounts;
(iii) appointment of Project Directors; and
(iv) furnishing of a detailed schedule and
syllabus of in-service courses provided
under the project.



IBRD 18616
PAKISTAN
-30
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATlON PROJECT                                                             36'-
j  s   -t Project Districts                           \       +prsmkLn
0     Principal Towns                                               Ap proxiate oine
*     National Capital3                                              .
Main Roads
---1---I-Railways
> ~ - Rivers  KASHnR
District Boundaries
Division Boundaries                                L
Provincial Boundaries                          /                   /
F r I~~~~~~~~ntemational -Ph-undaries
ISLAAFGANISTA
284
ISLAMICff ,,;                                                                            INDIA    x
640    -  Arabian                            Se         a          no I           4o
. =~~~~~~~~~~~~B
:   - :~Tm






