Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14218
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(Cr.1602-PAK)
APRIL 3, 1995
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
ADP         Annual Development Plans
AEPAM       Academy for Education Planning and Management
AIT         Asian Institute of Technology
BRIDGES     Basic Research and Implementation in Developing Education Systems
DCW         Department of Civil Works
DEEW        Education Engineering Wing
FCU         Federal Coordination Unit
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
LC          Learning Coordinator
LM          Learning Modules
MIS         Management Information System
MOE         Ministry of Education
NIP         National Institute for Psychology
NWFP        North Western Frontier Province
PCR         Project Completion Report
PEP         Primary Education Project
PIU         Project Implementation Units
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 3, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Pakistan
Second Primary Education Proiect (Credit 1602-PAK)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Second Primary
Education Project (Credit 1602-PAK) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was
contributed by the Borrower. The report gives a satisfactory account of the project experience.
The project had two objectives: to improve teacher effectiveness and to
develop low-cost primary education, both to be achieved through buildup of teaching staff
(assistant teachers); enhanced school supervision; in-service training; new learning modules;
improved physical facilities; and communication/dissemination activities.
The outcome of the project is rated as marginally satisfactory. With the
exception of in-service teacher training, all physical targets were reached or exceeded.
However, little progress was made towards cost effectiveness of instruction, mainly because
deployment and behavior of teachers did not change as posited at appraisal. Therefore
institutional development is rated as modest and the sustainability of project achievements as
uncertain. Compliance with covenants was good.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1602-PAK)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ................................................ i
Evaluation Summary . ................................................ ii
Part I PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .....................................1
Background ....................................                                   1
Project Formulation, Strategy, and Scope .............................. 3
Project Objectives, Inputs, and Implementation
Arrangements ....................................5 
Project Implementation ....................................                       7
Major Results of the Project .....................................   11
Project Sustainability .....................................                     15
IDA Performance .....................................                            15
Borrower Performance .....................................                        16
Government-IDA Dialogue ....................................     17
Documentation and Data Relating to the Project ....................... 17
Part H PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Objectives of the Project .....................................    18
Scope of the Project ...................................... 19
Progress Achieved by the Completion of the Project .......        ............. 24
Termination of Contract Agreement ................................. 26
Civil Works  .....................................  26
Minor Civil Works ...................................... 26
Learning Modules ...................................... 27
Technical Assistance Fellowships .................................. 31
Technical Assistance Appointment of Long-Term/Short Term Consultants .. . 32
Procurement of Vehicles .................................... . 35
Fumiture and Equipment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part m              STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Related IDA Credits .......................................                                                  45
Project Timetable ........................................ 46
Credit Disbursements .......................................                                                 47
Cumulative Credit Disbursements ................................... 48
Estimated Project Costs by Component ............................... 49
Estimated Project Financing by Category ............................. 50
Actual Project Financing by Category (Guesstimates) .................... 51
Status of Covenants .......................................                                                  52
Bank Resources: Staff Input ...................................... 54
Bank Resources: Bank Missions through Effectiveness ................... 55
Bank Resources: Bank Missions through Completion .................... 56
MAP: IBRD 18616



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1602-PAK)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Primary Education Project in
Pakistan, for which Credit 1602-PAK in the amount of SDR 53.0 million (US$52.5 million equivalent)
was approved on June 6, 1985. After two extensions the Credit was closed on March 31, 1993.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources Division, Country
Department III, of the South Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during a mission in January 1993, and is based inter alia
on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between IDA and the Borrower, completion reports prepared by provincial implementation units,
independent evaluations of IDA-financed interventions, and IDA project files.



q



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1602-PAIQ
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Overview
i.        A credit of US$53.0 million equivalent was approved for the Second Primary Education
Project (commonly referred to as PEP II) in June 1985. The credit was closed after two additional
extensions, on March 31, 1993. It was the third IDA-financed operation to support basic education,
and the second to focus exclusively on the primary sector. Like its predecessor, PEP II provided a
range of innovative inputs in the intended framework of an experimental project design. It covered
the same districts as the previous projects, but in three provinces only (representing about 60 percent
of the schools in those provinces). PEP II recognized the importance of provincial management for
both implementation and sustainability outcomes; it has since been followed by single-province
primary education investments.
Proiect Objectives and Components
ii.       The project had two objectives: improving teacher effectiveness and developing low-cost
primary education. These objectives were to be met through the provision of six-interlinked inputs
including: (a) increased supervision (involving Learning Coordinators, an important educational
innovation introduced in the first primary project); (b) additional assistant teachers; (c) improved in-
service teacher training (which would be linked to the development and use of specialized learning
materials); (d) development of specialized learning materials (called Learning Modules); (e) upgraded
physical facilities (through untried, low-cost, prefabricated construction techniques); and (f) wider
communication and dissemination of project findings. The effectiveness of project inputs was to be
assessed through several types of evaluation studies.
iii.      The management structure established under the first primary education project would
be largely maintained. PEP II management would differ in three respects: (a) the number of staff
in the Federal Coordination Unit (FCU) would be expanded to accommodate perceived needs in such
fields as educational technology, research, information systems development, and communications;
(b) greater flexibility would be obtained by implementing the project in five tranches, only the first
of which had been designed at Appraisal; and (c) the project management structure would not stand
apart, but would be fully integrated with provincial administrative structures.



Iv
Implementation Experience
iv.        Credit Effectiveness was delayed by six months, and disbursements lagged throughout
much of implementation. Delays in operationalizing assignment accounts and transferring funds from
one State Bank account to another caused problems throughout the project. Other reasons for the
disbursement lags included the failure of both the tranche approach to implementation and the
prefabrication approach to construction, and the time taken to implement the Learning Module
component. Prefabrication was abandoned toward the end of the project. It was replaced by
construction by local contractors under the supervision of provincial authorities.
v.         The SAR estimated that PEP II would cost about US$73.03 million equivalent, of which
the IDA Credit would cover about 72%, and federal and provincial governments would provide the
rest. A lack of complete and consistent data sets across all provinces prevented a definitive
accounting of actual project costs and financing. Some "guesstimates' were made based on IDA
disbursement data and information collected during the Project Completion Mission in January 1993.
These guesstimates indicate that the final cost is probably fairly close to the original estimate (with
varying estimates ranging from an 18% underrun to a 23% overrun). One of the main findings with
regard to project costs is the clear increase in the proportion of project resources absorbed by civil
works (70% as opposed to 43% envisioned at Appraisal) and the severe decline in resources allocated
to technical assistance (only 16% of what was allocated was actually spent).
vi.        Disbursements. By the final closing date, March 1993, two years after the original date,
a total of SDR 41.3 million had been disbursed, 77 percent of the credit amount. Measured in
dollars, disbursements totalled US$ 56.5 million, slightly more than the original US$ 52.5 million (due
to the substantial exchange rate movements of the late 1980s), but leaving US$ 16.2 million
undisbursed. Two-thirds of the expenditure originally planned was in Pakistani rupees, and the rupee
underwent substantial real devaluation against the SDR during the period of the project, but
information does not permit a calculation of how in real terms total expenditure and total IDA
financing compared with the original forecasts.
Results
Achievement of Targets
vii.       Except for in-service teacher training, which fell short of its final goal (i.e. the third cycle
of level - C trainees), the project achieved or exceeded its targets. It provided the basis for
institutionalizing the Learning Coordinators, set the stage for a separate management structure for
primary education, built more than 8,000 classrooms, and developed over 300 Learning Modules.
One promising innovation (which was sought in the first Primary Education Project and was
eventually achieved at the end of PEP II) was the bifurcation of primary and secondary education.
Classroom construction by provincial authorities was particularly remarkable in NWFP and
Balochistan, where all construction was concentrated in the last two years of project implementation.
These achievements -- both institutional and physical -- are not debatable. What may be debatable
is the degree to which classrooms and Learning Modules contributed to the broader education
objectives (of which they formed a part). In some respects, it seems as if achievement of targets --
and particularly the development of learning materials -- became an end in itself, detached from any
wider goal.



v
Achievement of Objectives
viii.      Although certain aspects of the education process were strengthened as a result of PEP
II, it would be misleading to say that project objectives -- as stated in the SAR -- were achieved.
There is little to suggest that project inputs had an appreciable impact on improving teacher
effectiveness. Several studies have shown that Learning Modules were satisfactory in content,
appropriate to primary level children, and known to teachers. Nevertheless, they have not been used,
largely because they are not linked directly to textbook content. Other studies comparing student
achievement for project and non-project schools have demonstrated little differences in performance
between the two groups, frequent visits by Learning Coordinators notwithstanding.
ix.        With regard to development of low-cost options for primary education, little was
achieved under PEP II. Assistant teachers were not employed or were absorbed into the ranks of
the regular teachers, thus defeating their cost-saving objective. The major low-cost input to be
supported -- namely, the provision of prefabricated classrooms -- was never implemented, while the
classrooms constructed through the provincial civil works agencies were at a substantially higher unit
cost than anticipated at appraisal.
x.         As noted, the design of PEP II was experimental and was to be implemented in tranches.
By the end of the project all inputs and project management structures were to be fully integrated
with existing provincial systems. In fact, this was only accomplished at the end of the project, with
great reluctance on the part of implementing agencies and even greater insistence on the part of IDA
supervision missions.
Sustainabilitv
xi.        Although buildings constructed are likely to remain standing, and the teachers and
supervisory staff likely to remain on government payrolls, the value added to learning outcomes as
a consequence of this project, and the likely sustainability of the learning inputs on educational
outcomes, is moot. There are two main sustainability lessons in both PEP II and its predecessor.
One is that, in order to be sustainable, innovations must be sensitive to the larger organizational
setting of which they will be a part. Another is that, there are no "teacher proof' innovations. Any
attempt to change teacher behavior (and improve student achievement) will succeed only when
teachers see the benefit of such interventions and want to use them.
Findings and Lessons
xii.       This was an ambitious and highly innovative project from both educational and
institutional perspectives, which tried to introduce new inputs into the classroom and change how
primary education was to be delivered. The tranche approach -- upon which delivery of the
innovative inputs hinged -- proved unworkable for several reasons. It was inconsistent with the
Government's own project planning and approval system (the PC-1). A number of prerequisites for
effective tranche programming -- i.e. adequate, accurate, and timely data, education officials trained
to use such information to make decisions, and a supportive community -- simply were not present.
Once classroom construction got out of synch and derailed the delivery of other inputs that were
linked to them, the hope that tranching would prove a realistic and implementable strategy faded
away. Thus, in the end, the project supplied little more than conventional IDA-financed education



vi
projects, namely, bricks and mortar. The experimental aspects of the project were unsuccessful, as
evidenced by: (a) the abandonment of the tranche approach; (b) the underutilization of the technical
assistance; (c) the FCU's reluctance to hire additional staff needed to fulfil the monitoring function;
and (d) the lack of any attention to building evaluation capability at the provincial level.
xiii.     Innovative elements failed to achieve their objectives for several reasons. Some (such
as the Learning Modules) represented a significant departure from conventional teaching practice.
Others (such as the prefabricated approach to construction) represented an untried technology
unsuited to local conditions.  Still others (notably the Learning Coordinators and project
implementation units) took insufficient notice of the institutional environment in which they would
ultimately operate. One of the main features of the institutional landscape which designers ignored
was the probable impact of the rigid PC-1 process on the implementation of an experimental design.
The conservative environment encouraged a rigid application of the PC-1, inhibiting the flexibility
needed for an experimental process, or indeed for any project whose implementation is based on the
concept of annual review and agreement on work programs for the coming year. This, plus the fact
that designers failed to garner sufficient understanding of or popular support for their new ideas --
either among provincial education staff who would implement them or primary education staff who
would be target beneficiaries -- probably meant that many of the experimental and innovative
elements supported under the project were doomed at the outset.



PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1602-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.         Project Identity
Project Name:                Second Primary Education Project
Credit Number:               1602-PAK
Borrower:                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Sector:                      Education
Sub-Sector:                  Primnary Education
Amount of Credit:            SDR 53.0 million
(US$ 52.5 million equivalent)
Board Approval:              June 6, 1985
Effective Date:             January 17, 1986
Original Closing Date:       March 31, 1991
Actual Closing Date:         March 31, 1993
Final Disbursement Date:     June 30, 1993
Amount disbursed:            SDR 41.3 million
(US$ 56.5 million equivalent)
Amount cancelled:            SDR 11.9 million
(US$ 17.2 million equivalent)
B.         Background
1.         Socio-Economic Context. By the mid-1980s, Pakistan had made substantial progress in
expanding its industrial base and agricultural production, largely through prudent management of public
expenditures and an increase in the availability of water. But improved economic performance was not
accompanied by a concomitant appreciation of the country's human capital base. In fact, growth in
primary enrollments during the Fifth Plan period (FY79-83) barely kept pace with the 3 percent annual
population growth rate, and adult literacy remained around 22 percent.  Inequitable education
opportunities--between boys and girls and across ethnic and geographic boundaries--was accentuated
rather than diminished, while the dispersed nature of human settlement in some provinces made it very
costly to provide even a minimum standard of health care or education services.
2.         Issues in Primary Education.    Part of the problem lay in public under-funding of
education and other social services. In 1982, for example, public expenditure on education represented
less than 2 percent of GDP and 7 percent of total government expenditure, respectively, far lower than
other countries in the region. In addition, intra-sectoral allocations were skewed in favor of secondary
and higher education and away from primary, with the latter consistently receiving less than 20 percent
of the total education budget.



2
3.  Another problem was caused by the split in financial and administrative responsibilities between
federal and provincial authorities. Although planning and budgeting for education (as conducted through
Annual Development Plans, or ADPs) were undertaken by the Federal Government, implementation of
primary education programs rested with the provinces, which enjoyed relative autonomy in introducing
their own development priorities. Moreover, while development or capital expenditures were financed
mainly through federal ADP budgets, operating costs had to be met at the provincial level. Thus,
national plans could be derailed by provincial implementation, while initial investments made in absence
of assured support for recurrent costs often proved unsustainable. Finally, as there was no systematic
approach to collecting, processing, and reporting educational statistics, information needed for planning
and budgeting exercises--at either provincial or federal levels--was not available.
4.         Community attitudes toward education were often neutral. Rural parents frequently saw
little benefit in formal education for their children, especially compared with the high direct and indirect
costs.  High opportunity costs and social mores presented a particular obstacle for girls, whose
participation rates were about 20 percent in rural areas.
5.         Primary education itself was characterized by poor educational quality, high wastage, and
low student achievement. Half of all children enrolling in primary school dropped out before Grade 5.
Few rural children ever acquired even minimal competency in literacy or numeracy. Production of
textbooks was insufficient; rural children frequently had incomplete sets or no books at all.
6.         Within the educated segments of society, teaching was not a high status profession; within
the profession, primary teaching was regarded as little more than caretaking. Primary teachers had low
entry requirements and low salaries. Faculty at primary teacher training colleges were often subject
matter specialists who had little or no experience or interest in teaching primary children.  Not
surprisingly, such institutions placed too much emphasis on subject matter and too little on appropriate
teaching techniques for the special learning needs or capacities of the primary-aged child.
7.         A primary teacher's career was filled with disincentives to good performance, professional
satisfaction, and career advancement. Primary and secondary education were merged administratively
and pedagogically, and few opportunities were available within the primary teacher's career stream.
While an individual with eight to ten years of schooling could become a primary teacher, civil service
regulations required a university degree for administrators, secondary teachers and supervisors. Thus
the best and most motivated primary teachers frequently (after obtaining the necessary qualifications)
ended up as administrators or as teachers in the secondary system.
8.         Government Strategy for Primary Education. Recognizing the consequences of insufficient
attention to basic education, the Sixth Plan (FY84-88) outlined a "Special Development Program for
Primary Education." Ambitious targets for public investment and primary outcomes were set. The
proportion of education budget allocated to primary would increase to 34 percent. Primary enrollments
would rise to 90 percent for boys and 60 percent for girls, for an enrollment ratio of 75 percent of the
relevant age group. The first five years of education would become compulsory. To accommodate the
upsurge in attendance, 40,000 mosque schools and 24,000 regular primary schools would be opened.
To improve the overall management of primary education, separate agencies for primary and secondary
would be created at the federal, provincial and local levels. Finally, to improve educational quality and
reduce drop-out, the primary curriculum would be simplified and enhanced conmmunity support would
be sought.



3
9.           Previous Assistance to Education (Table 3.1). Early projects focused on meeting perceived
needs for middle and higher level manpower for industrial and agricultural growth. By the late 1970s,
however, IDA and the Government began to turn attention to basic education. The Third Education
Project (Cr. 678-PAK, approved in January 1977) reflected the shifting focus by devoting half its
resources to agricultural manpower development and half to pre-service primary teacher training.
Although the project expanded capacity and extended coverage as intended--especially for female teacher
trainees in rural areas--the objective of enhancing the quality of teacher training programs was not met.
10.          Other donor agencies also moved toward assisting basic education.  During the late 1970s,
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) designed a project that would focus
on primary education for some of the most disadvantaged regions and groups. The project was intended
to be experimental in size, scope, and approach. It contained numerous innovative inputs and was
designed to enhance understanding of effective strategies for raising primary education quality. Although
political considerations intervened before USAID could launch it, IDA picked it up, appraised it, and in
April 1979, approved Credit 892-PAK for US$10.0 million equivalent for a Primary Education Project.'
C.           Proiect Formulation. Strategv. and Scope
11.          The Second Primary Education Project (PEP II) originated as a follow-up to Cr. 892-PAK.
It was appraised in late 1984, less than a year after it was identified and about six months before Cr. 892-
PAK was closed.2 A credit of US$52.5 million equivalent was approved in June 1985, and declared
effective in January 1986. It is evident from the project files that IDA staff felt considerable pressure
to get the second investment ready to overlap with the first in order to avoid a gap in implementation or
a dissipation of project staff assembled under Cr. 892-PAK.
12.          Although characterized by innovative inputs and dubbed "experimental", PEP II was much
larger and differed from its predecessor in several respects. First, rather than providing one or two
quality inputs to selected schools over a widely-scattered region, it adopted an integrated approach in
which all inputs for all schools in a given district would be addressed simultaneously (districts selected
covered about 60 percent of the schools in the three provinces). The project management structure was
more decentralized but less marginalized than previously since it was to be integrated with the provincial
administrative system.  Finally, implementation in five phases, or tranches, aimed to strengthen
responsiveness, local participation and ownership, and implementation capacity.
13.          A number of issues were raised during the preparation of PEP 11. Some were squarely
addressed and resolved at that stage. Some were addressed but proved more intractable than anticipated
and remained problems throughout implementation. Others were glossed over.
14.          One issue concerned the scope and packaging of project objectives and the strategy and time-
frame for delivering the inputs. Initially, project objectives included: (a) improving teacher effectiveness
and participation rates; (b) finding low-cost solutions to primary education; and (c) institutionalizing
1/          It is interesting to note that political exigencies continued to promote this division of labor between USAID and the World
Bank, which has most recently culminated in IDA financing for primary education projects in Balochistan and NWFP, building on intensive
work with USAID financing that cannot be continued.
2/           Cr. 892-PAK closed in June 1985. A Project Performance Audit Report covering both Crs. 678-PAK and 892-PAK was
issued in June 1990 (Report No. 8859).



4
project activities within the existing government structure. Eventually, these were recast into two
objectives emphasizing teacher effectiveness and cost containment (see para. 22). In the first project,
inputs and beneficiaries had been clearly identified at the outset. This fixed approach was exacerbated
by the inflexibility of the Government's project programming system (or PC-1) which discouraged
adaptive change during implementation. In order to overcome this rigidity, PEP II was to rely upon an
implementation program phased over several tranches, only the first of which had been designed at
Appraisal. Subsequent tranches were to be designed within each district and each province according to
agreed guidelines. In this way, the assistance was to operate more like a program than project
investment.
15.         Another issue was project coverage. Originally, the project was to extend the assistance
initiated under Cr. 892 to the 29 districts in all four provinces. However, at Appraisal, Punjab declined
to participate, so PEP II ultimately concentrated on nineteen districts in three provinces: five in
Balochistan, six in North Western Frontier Province (NWFP), and eight in Sindh (see paragraph 12).3
16.         Project management and sustainability and the roles that federal and provincial governments
would play in each were discussed. Given the poor performance of past, federally-administered projects,
IDA saw a clear need to promote provincial commitment and local ownership. This was to be
accomplished by: (a) getting the federal government to allocate sufficient ADP resources; (b)
decentralizing project management to the provinces; (c) implementing the project in tranches, which was
thought to guarantee a greater role for the provinces in developing education investments; (d) promoting
community participation and financing of primary education; (e) institutionalizing successful project inputs
in recurrent budget allocations; and (f) integrating project management structures into provincial
administrative systems.
17.         Concerns were raised about the role of information systems and the need to establish
monitoring and evaluation systems in order to determine effectiveness of project inputs. The Issues Paper
stated, "Each of the inputs under the first project was evaluated to determine whether it has a positive
(desirable) effect towards achieving the project objectives." In fact -- as amply demonstrated in the Audit
of that project -- the evaluation design was weak, the monitoring function inconsistently applied, and the
studies conducted fairly inconclusive.
18.         Another issue was disbursements, which were to take place over a five year period,
considerably less than the average for IDA-assisted projects in Pakistan. Project developers felt that the
shorter period was realistic in view of the prompt completion of the first project, the continuity of project
management, the availability of construction sites, and the sectoral expertise acquired in the course of the
first project.
19.         Four issues were raised at the Yellow Cover Review Meeting. One was the feasibility and
cost effectiveness of the prefabricated classrooms being tried under PEP II (para. 23). In light of the
meeting's concern, it was agreed to alter performance specifications in bidding documents so that
traditional construction methods and comparison of bids on a competitive basis would be allowed.
Preparation of bidding documents also became a condition of effectiveness.
3/          Subsequently, dte provincial government of Punjab requested (and was granted) assistance for primary education; Cr.
182 1-PAK was approved in 1987.



5
20.         Another concern was the difficulty of implementing Learning Modules (LMs) on a large
scale basis. Learning Modules, which were supplementary educational materials that would be prepared
under the project, were to be a major innovation and would serve as a lynch pin for other inputs such
as in-service teacher training.  The feasibility of introducing complex and sophisticated materials and
teaching techniques in 14,000 schools over the relatively short four year implementation period was
raised. In light of these concerns it was agreed that initial modules would be: (a) simple (more like
teachers' guides) and experimental, (b) refined after initial field testing, and (c) introduced on a large
scale at a pace commensurate with their proven success.
21.         Two more issues raised at the Yellow Cover stage were: (a) specifics regarding how the
in-service teacher training would be improved by the project and (b) need to monitor implementation in
order to enable project management to take corrective action. Neither of these issues was satisfactorily
addressed.
D.          Project Objectives. Inputs, and Implementation Arrangements
22.         Obiectives. The primary goal was finding an effective strategy for raising literacy and
student achievement and improving the quality of primary education. This was to be obtained by:
(a)  Improving teacher effectiveness through provision of: (i) LMs, instructional guides, and
training materials that would organize the curriculum into a set of tightly-structured lessons,
(ii) in-service training courses in utilization of these materials, and (iii) continuous training
and support on-the-job through supervision and guidance; and
(b)  Developing low-cost primary education through: (i) employing assistant teachers, (ii)
providing moderate, low-maintenance school buildings, (iii) increasing student-teacher
ratios, and (iv) developing national policies to encourage low-cost primary schooling.
23.   Inputs. Several inputs of the first project which appeared effective were retained and expanded
under PEP II; others were modified or dropped. In total, excluding those pertaining to information
collection and project evaluation, six inputs were identified in the Staff Appraisal Report: increased
supervision, additional assistant teachers, revised in-service teacher training, development of specialized
learning materials, upgraded physical facilities, and improved communication and dissemination.
(a)  Supervision. The first project hypothesized that more frequent supervision of primary
classrooms would: (i) reduce teacher absenteeism, (ii) increase professional guidance to
teachers, and (iii) stimulate greater community support for primary education. Existing
supervision practices were supplemented by the addition of the "Learning Coordinator"
(LC) -- a supervisor-cum-teacher resource person. LCs were to be drawn from the ranks
of experienced primary teachers, a move that would also broaden the otherwise flat career
structure and provide career enhancement opportunities for primary teachers. The cadre
of learning coordinators was the first ever attempt to prove a semblance of a career ladder
for the primary teacher. Evaluations during Cr. 892-PAK indicated that LCs were likely
to be a successful innovation. Given this, PEP II financed vehicles and, on a declining
scale, salaries and allowances for an additional 679 LCs and 79 management staff.
(b) Assistant Teachers. Evidence from the first project also supported the hypothesis that
employing uncertified assistant teachers (especially females) could be educationally sound



6
and provide a low cost solution to the prevailing teacher shortage in rural areas.
Accordingly, PEP II financed, on a declining scale, the salaries of about 2350 additional
assistant teachers.
(c)  In-service Training. The in-service training program developed under the first project
identified the nature and extent of skill deficiency in teachers but did little to overcome
them. Major deficiencies in the program were: inappropriate course content, isolation of
training from other project inputs, and absence of follow-up to assist teachers to apply their
training in the classroom. PEP II restructured the program and linked it to the development
and use of the tightly structured LMs, which would then be followed by frequent school
visits from the Learning Coordinators. Under this component, training allowances and
consumable training materials were to be financed for some 2,500 supervisors and LCs,
2350 assistant teachers, and 30,000 primary teachers.
(d) Learning Materials. Few materials had been provided under Cr. 892-PAK. This was
recognized as a design flaw, since research indicated that primary school teachers were
deficient in both subject-matter knowledge and teaching techniques. To overcome this, the
project would analyze subjects taught (to identify specific concepts and particular skill areas)
and design self-contained Learning Modules for each skill. Each LM would consist of
demonstration exercises for the teacher, practice exercises for the students, and a mastery
test. During Negotiations it was agreed that specifications and prototypes for the Learning
Modules (as well as an in-service training program incorporating them) would be elaborated
in consultation with IDA and that the Learning Modules would be developed in consultation
with the provinces.
(e)  Physical Facilities.  Primary classrooms constructed under Cr. 892-PAK were of low
quality and inferior design, costly to build and maintain, and tended to exacerbate rather
than relieve the problem of single-teacher schools. PEP II proposed to overcome this by
limiting construction to schools with sufficient enrollments and teaching staff, experimenting
with prefabricated construction for new classrooms, and encouraging community
participation in rehabilitating existing classrooms and constructing boundary walls.4 In this
manner, PEP II was to construct 6,000 new classrooms and 4,000 boundary walls and
rehabilitate 12,000 existing classrooms. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that guidelines acceptable to IDA and detailed in the SAR would serve as the
basis for selecting schools to participate in the building program.
(f)  Communication and Dissemination. In order to publicize and disseminate information
about the innovations in primary education to a wider audience in Pakistan, PEP II would
support contract services to develop media and related materials as well as salaries of an
information officer for the Federal Coordinating Unit (FCU) and three professional
assistants in each of the provincial Project Implementation Units (PIUs).
24.    Monitoring. Evaluation, and Studies. In order to obtain accurate data on enrollments, wastage,
and costs, upgrade the capability of the provinces in information management, and provide a data base
4/     It was envisioned that a factory-made product which would respond to exact specifications would better fulfill the multiple needs
and conditions than previous approaches.



7
for analyzing effectiveness of project inputs, PEP II supported strengthening management information
systems by financing equipment and, on a declining scale, the salaries of additional staff. In order to
assess impact of the investment, three kinds of studies were to be undertaken: (a) intermediate outcome
assessments (e.g. improvement in teacher classroom performance); (b) ultimate impact assessments by
stated objective (i.e., increasing participation, enhancing student achievement, and lowering educational
costs); and (c) diagnostic and formative assessments to determine the need for mid-course corrections
within the tranche approach.
25.   Implementation Arrangements. A management structure had been established under Cr. 892-PAK
consisting of the FCU and the PlUs in each province. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that these units would be strengthened with additional staff who would be appointed in a
manner and on a schedule satisfactory to IDA. In addition, the management of PEP II would differ from
its predecessor in three respects. First, the number of staff would be expanded (since additional staff in
such fields as educational technology, research, information systems, and communication and public
relations would be required). Second, greater flexibility and capacity would be obtained through the
tranche approach.
26.    Third, the project management structure would not stand apart -- as it had in the previous
operation -- but would eventually become fully integrated with provincial administrative structures. The
implementation of the first project had shown that distance and even tension was developing between
project and non-project staff. The adverse impact of such distance on project ownership and sustainability
was undeniable, and the concomitant need to institutionalize project administration was recognized and
openly discussed. The difficulty of engineering such a merger was acknowledged. (The Initial Project
Brief pointed out -- quite accurately in retrospect -- "the objective of integrating project management
structures within provincial administration may take the full cycle of the project to be accomplished.")
Although recognizing the importance of integration and the potential difficulties associated with it, IDA
did not bring leverage to bear on the issue. Neither financial incentives (i.e. project funds) nor formal
agreements (i.e. covenants) were pursued to insure that institutionalization took place. In fact, allowing
the creation of a provincial PIU structure at all was probably inconsistent with the goal of integration,
given the nature of the experience with the previous project.
E.    Proiect Implementation
27.    Overview. Credit Effectiveness, originally scheduled for July 1985, took place on January 17,
1986 (Table 3.2). Disbursements lagged to the extent that only 50 percent of the Credit was disbursed
by March 1991, the original Closing Date (Table 3.3 and Figure 1).  Delays in opening and
operationalizing assignrment accounts and in transferring funds from one State Bank to another caused
problems throughout the project. Other reasons for disbursement lags were the failure of the tranche
approach and the prefab approach, and the time taken to implement the Learning Module component.
Once prefabrication was dropped and construction was taken over by provincial construction authorities,
disbursements improved dramatically and construction targets were not only met but exceeded. The
Closing Date was extended twice:  to March 1992, and subsequently to March 1993, although
disbursement issues remained alive until well into 1994 since Special Account expenditures totalling some
$200,000 remained undocumented. Government had still not repaid these amounts when the present draft
report was prepared. Given the problematic implementation of the project and the time overrun, it would
seem that: (a) many of the issues raised during preparation actually prophesied problems to come and
(b) the 5 year implementation period estimated at Appraisal was decidedly over-optimistic.



8
28.    Project Costs. The Staff Appraisal Report estimated that PEP 11 would cost US$73.03 million
equivalent, of which IDA would provide US$52.5 million and the federal and provincial governments
would provide the balance. The lack of complete and consistent data across the provinces and the
difficulty of establishing a reliable currency conversion ratio have prevented a definitive accounting of
project costs and financing. Thus, one can only guess at total actual costs. Some "guesstimates" have
been made using data collected by the project completion mission in January 1993. This data indicates
that the final cost was probably fairly close to the original (see Tables 3.5 and the Background Paper:
"Guesstimating Project Costs for PEP II: An Explanatory Note"). Depending whether a low or high
guesstimate scenario is assumed, the difference would range from a cost underrun of 18 percent to an
overrun of 23 percent.
29.    Disbursements. As of the end of June 1994 a total of SDR 41.13 million had been disbursed,
78 percent of the credit amount. Measured in dollars, disbursements totalled US$ 55.4 million, slightly
more than the original estimate of disbursements of US$ 52.5 million (due to the substantial exchange
rate movements of the late 1980s), but leaving US$ 17.2 million undisbursed. Two-thirds of the
expenditure originally planned was in Pakistani rupees, and the rupee underwent substantial real
devaluation against the SDR during the period of the project, but information does not permit a
calculation of how in real terms total expenditure and total IDA financing compared with the original
forecasts.
30.    Civil Works.5  A firm of consultant engineers was appointed to be responsible for managing all
construction aspects of the project. This firm prepared bidding documents and carried out the ICB
tendering process, eventually completing the evaluation of bids and issuing an acceptance for civil works
in Balochistan and NWFP in late December 1986.
31.    There was no satisfactory response to the tendering process for the 3,000 classrooms in Sindh,
and by October 1988, IDA agreed to entrust the work to the Directorate of Education Engineering Wing
(DEEW) under the provincial education department, an arrangement that had worked reasonably well
under Crs. 678 and 892-PAK. Progress was achieved and, by the time the completion mission was in
the field, nearly 3,300 classrooms had been completed and another 2,000 repaired. Numerous IDA
missions commended the civil works construction achieved by the DEEW -- almost with a sense of relief
in comparison with the deadlocked position in the other two provinces.
32.    Even though the tendering process for prefabricated construction in NWFP and Balochistan had
been successful, problems soon emerged which eventually undermined the approach and led to its
abandonment. First, the contract was awarded to a firm with neither the industrial nor contracting
experience necessary; this was compounded by it being a local firm, and subject to both political and
bureaucratic pressures. The Government of Pakistan did not endorse the contract until August 1988 and
over two years elapsed before the Ministry of Education approved the classroom prototype. During the
time that elapsed, the contractor -- who had been undercapitalized at the outset -- got into financial
difficulties and could not deliver, forcing cancellation of the contract within a year of its endorsement.
Project design further aggravated matters by requiring the FCU/MOE to implement the component
directly from the center without involving provincial education and engineering structures. Village
contractors resented the presence of an "outsider" (i.e. a contractor from outside the province), and on-
site problems also began to emerge owing to: (a) strict specifications (which led to a level of precision
5/     This section is based on a Background Paper prepared during the Completion Mission: "Construction Activities under PEP 11:
An Analysis," which is available in the Project Files.



9
which could not be delivered) and (b) field problems and lack of ability to correct them (i.e. control of
concrete in foundations, casting of foundation bolts to precise locations, special items in the design which
could not be procured locally if that supplied by the central factory failed or was damaged). Thus, while
relying on a sophisticated factory-made product which would be suitable for all geographic and climatic
conditions, the approach failed to factor in the local technological, administrative, and social conditions
in which the high-tech solution would be implemented.
33.    When it was recognized that the prefabrication approach had failed across the board, the
traditional method of relying on provincial construction authorities was reintroduced and accepted by
IDA. By this time, PEP II was nearing its initial Closing Date, so any action taken had to be immediate
and drastic. In Balochistan, the provincial Department of Civil Works (DCW) commenced work on 500
classrooms in 1991. In early 1992, an architectural and engineering firm was engaged to enhance their
management capacity, and two more phases of 500 classrooms each were initiated. At the time of the
completion mission, nearly 1,330 classrooms had been completed, exceeding the initial target of 1,000.
In NWFP the situation was similar.6 The provincial Communication and Works Department started
construction work in May 1991, and by March 1993, had completed 2,475 classrooms, well in excess
of the initial target of 2,000. It was anticipated that 2,777 classrooms would be completed by the end
of the project, about 99 percent of the revised target.
34.    Consultant Services. The consultant engineering firm initially retained made little progress owing
to the failure of the prefabricated approach. By contrast, after an initial period of adjustment, the
architectural and engineering firm hired in Balochistan to work with the provincial DCW did make a
positive contribution to the quality of the construction and the transparency of the process. DCW came
to appreciate the check-and-balance function that an independent consultant could exercise on non-
performing contractors, while the government came to appreciate that consulting staff did not represent
a permanent drain on public resources in the same way that an increase in the number of DCW engineers
would. By the completion of PEP II, NWFP and, to a lesser extent, Sindh, were also becoming aware
of the advantages inherent in hiring consultants for such assignments.
35.    Furniture and Equipment. Some initial problems arose regarding furniture procurement. These
were overcome and classrooms constructed were furnished. Vehicles, the other major procurement item,
presented problems owing to: (a) provincial reluctance to purchase the full complement of vehicles
allotted in the PC-1 and (b) inequitable vehicle allocation procedures which engendered hard feelings
among provincial education staff. Generally speaking, fewer vehicles were procured than intended, and,
in consequence, mobility of Learning Coordinators was noted as problem. The movement away from
centralized administration of transportation and toward facilitated hire/purchase of vehicles for education
staff is probably an improvement.
36.    Educational Inputs (Learning Modules and Training). Initially, LMs were to be prepared on a
national scale by the National Institute for Psychology (NIP). They were to be tested by provincial
education staff who had been trained via a "cascade" approach.7 However, early discussions with the
6/     NWFP was the only province where some (18) prefabricated classrooms were erected. Of those visited by the completion
mission, only one was in use as a classroom. Teachers and education staff interviewed by the mission found the prefab units unsuitable as
primary schools and physically uncomfortable (i.e. too hot in summer and too cold in winter).
7/     The three-tiered "cascade' approach would consist of Group A (the master trainers), Group B (the Leaming Coordinators as
trainees), and Group C (LCs as trainers, teachers as trainees).



10
A-level trainers -- those who would be the primary supporters of the innovation -- revealed considerable
apprehension and dissention among that group. LMs were perceived to be completely outside what was
being taught in the average classroom and of indeterminate purpose. These substantial reservations led
the first IDA supervision mission in February 1986 to recommend that: (a) provinces be allowed to
initiate their own learning module production and testing; and (b) no "B" group be trained until the "A"
group commitment issue had been resolved and the Learning Modules themselves revised, rewritten, and
adapted to provincial needs and thoroughly field-tested.
37.   The Learning Module innovation never took off as intended, and its implementation was very
problematic. No single model produced by the NIP was acceptable to everyone, and provincial education
authorities rewrote some of them. The national committee reviewing these found they did not comply
with the SAR guidelines. The committee recommended a fresh start through the recruitment of full-time
specialists in the PIUs. This suggestion was adopted. Decentralizing the locus for LM development had
numerous implications for provincial administrations, and getting staff in place and producing LMs
consumed even more time. The FCU maintained a coordination and quality control function throughout
the project life, and Learning Modules developed in the provinces were subject to scrutiny and approval
by an FCU-sponsored National Committee. Once launched, however, production of learning modules
was prolific. By the end of PEP 11, some 327 modules had been produced.
38.    Delayed production of Learning Modules had major implications for the in-service training
programs as well, and eventually the two activities were de-linked altogether. Other problems for the
in-service training activity stemmed from: (i) reluctance of A-level Master Trainers to accept LMs as
a critical training input; (ii) delayed implementation of B- and C-level training programs and inadequate
follow-up for participants; and (iii) ineffective on-the-job development of primary school teachers through
the supervisory support of Learning Coordinators. The final C-level training was not completed.
39.   Technical Assistance and Fellowships. During preparation and at the instigation of the Federal
Government, the scope of technical assistance was reduced from 372 to 225 staff months; it was also
specified that foreign consultants would be employed only when local consultants were not available.
About one-third of the allocation was to be utilized for the continued employment of a long term foreign
advisor throughout the duration of the project. Short term consultancies were anticipated for: (a)
learning module development; (b) development of project information systems; and (c) educational
measurement. In addition, the services of a professional firm was to be sought to assist with the
production of media materials under the communication and dissemination component.
40.    A large portion of the funds for technical assistance and research was never utilized. Actual costs
of technical assistance were about one-fourth of what was planned; less than 16 percent of the IDA
committed funds for this category were spent. Out of the 225 staff months provided, only about 54 were
used (30 SM of the long term foreign advisor and 24 SM for the LM and MIS design). At IDA's
insistence, the Government hired short-term expatriate technical assistance, but it was close to project
completion and had little impact. No substantive technical assistance was ever provided to the PIUs.
41.    Studies. Formative and summative evaluation was part of the intended design of the original
project and ample funds were set aside for this purpose under the category of "research and studies."
The Government did contract out a number of studies, including evaluations of Learning Modules and
Learning Coordinators. However, the absence of evaluation expertise resulted in studies which did not
even meet minimal criteria for statistical or research design. Funds were available for technical assistance
to help design the studies, but Government reluctance combined with substantial (i.e. 4 year) delays,



11
precluded hiring the necessary expertise. In fact, some of the best studies about project impact have been
done outside the project scope through the collaborative efforts of the Basic Research and Implementation
in Developing Education Systems (BRIDGES) Project of Harvard University (under contract to USAID)
and the Academy for Education Planning and Management (AEPAM) in Islamabad.
F.      Maior Results of the Project
42.     Achievement of Targets.  The project provided the basis for institutionalizing the Learning
Coordinators (through the Prime Minister's 5-Point Program), set the stage for a separate management
structure for primary education, built more than 8,000 classrooms, and developed over 300 Learning
Modules. These achievements -- both institutional and physical -- are not debatable. What is debatable
is the degree to which classrooms and Learning Modules contributed to the broader educational
objectives. In some respects it seems as if the achievement of targets (particularly the development of
learning materials) became an end in itself, detached from any wider goal.
43.     Achievement of Objectives  Although certain aspects of the education process were indeed
strengthened as a result of the project, it would be misleading to say that project objectives -- as stated
in the SAR -- had been achieved by project completion.
44.     There is little evidence to suggest that project inputs had an appreciable impact on improving
teacher effectiveness. The case of the Learning Modules is illustrative. Despite the considerable effort
that went into making their content relevant and training teachers to use them, subsequent evaluations
have found that Learning Modules have had little impact on learning or performance. I Studies have
demonstrated that, although LM content was satisfactory, appropriate to primary school children, and
known to teachers (who acknowledged receiving training in their use), they are not in use because: (a)
they are not directly linked to the textbooks (the primary and often the only teaching aid in the
classroom); (b) they are perceived as unresponsive to the way primary teachers conducted lessons in the
classroom9; and (c) they do not contribute in any material way to better exam performance. In
interviews with teachers, LMs did not receive favorable ratings for pupil activities because few were
consistent with teacher activities and objectives; only 40 percent were seen as useful for lesson planning.
In the classroom observation, no Learning Module was ever seen in use; by contrast, textbooks were
observed. Learning Coordinators -- those who were to have been the primary change agents for adoption
of the Learning Modules -- frequently demonstrated ambivalence about them. Teachers -- even those who
received substantial training under PEP 11 -- frequently could not distinguish this training from other
training they had taken.
8/      Of the studies on the Learning Modules, the evaluation of the impact of the LMs Balochistan and NWFP was the most
comprehensive and professionally done. The methodology employed relied heavily on interviews with teachers and learning coordinators,
classroom observations, and school visits. The PCR takes most of its observations from this study. (See Pervez, Mohammed "An
Evaluation of the Development and Implementation of Learning Modules in Primary Education" [NIP, April 19931).
9/      Classroom observation has generally demonstrated that teaching practice at the primary level is virtually coterminous with
recitation of the textbook and its lessons in the sequence in which they are presented. The LMs required a departure from this pattern, a
behavioral shift most teachers were apparently unwilling to make.



12
45.    A sample survey of primary schools in 1988/89 revealed disappointing results concerning the
impact of the both the Learning Modules and the Learning Coordinators.'" A comparison of project
and non-project schools indicated that: (a) except when comparing the performance of rural males,
achievement scores in math and science indicated only borderline or no significant differences; (b)
although the number of visits by LCs and supervisors to project schools was greater, there was little
significant impact on student achievement (in fact, the number of visits from LCs had a negative
correlation with achievement!); (c) the main impact of the LCs was on the teachers themselves, who, in
addition to being monitored more closely for attendance, stated that they did learn new methods from the
LCs; and (d) neither the use of instructional materials nor student monitors had appreciable impact on
learning or student performance.
46.    Surveys that focused exclusively on NWFP suggested that there may have been a differential
impact of PEP II across provinces. For example, although student scores in math, science, and Urdu,
were uniformly low, they were consistently -- if only marginally -- higher for project schools.
Furthermore, when teachers were observed, project schools also came out ahead with regard to such
attributes as mastery of materials content, teaching style, use of audio visual aids, classroom evaluation
and classroom management. Of all the factors, only the Learning Coordinators seemed to make a
difference; even so, it was the quality, not the frequency of the visits that made a difference. All other
indicators notwithstanding, there was still no significant difference in drop out or participation rates
between project and non-project schools.
47.    One innovation that was sought in the first Primary Education Project, achieved under PEP II,
and which held promise for the future, was the bifurcation of primary and secondary education and the
establishment of separate directorates of primary education in the provinces. Again, provinces varied in
how this was achieved. Some separated both administrative and teaching functions; others maintained
a uniform administrative cadre. In all cases, however, the need for advanced educational qualifications
remained a prerequisite for advancement in the career stream.
48.    With regard to developing low-cost options for primary education, little was achieved under
PEP II. Except in Balochistan, assistant teachers either were not employed or were absorbed into the
ranks of regular teachers, thus defeating their cost-saving objective. Other policy-based innovations --
such as increasing student-teacher ratios, and developing low-cost primary school options were not
actively pursued under the project.
49.    The major low-cost input to be supported by the project, namely the provision of prefabricated
classrooms, was not implemented. Although successfully replaced by traditional construction methods
which exceeded original targets -- an impressive achievement given the time allowed -- three qualifying
remarks are in order. First, the quality of construction was often mediocre. To varying degrees in all
three provinces, the completion mission noted the need for: (a) greater incorporation and utilization of
traditional technology and architectural elements; (b) greater vigilance in site supervision to ensure quality
of key components (e.g. floors, windows, roof drainage, waterproof course, etc); (c) better
communication between the field staff and headquarters; and (d) better construction documentation which
would enable field staff and the contractor to implement the design as intended. Absence of detailed,
comprehensive, and complete drawings and specifications, combined with the technical limitations of the
10/    Ahmad, Nawaz Malik. "Effects of the Primary Education Project on Student Achievements and Practices of Primary School
Teachers in Pakistan," (BRIDGES Casual Paper Series, mimeo)



13
field staff, left a lot up to the imagination and ingenuity of local contractors -- some of whom clearly took
advantage of the situation.
50.    Secondly, in addition to new classrooms, PEP II was to support construction of boundary walls
and rehabilitation of existing classrooms. Ultimate achievement in these categories fell far short of
Appraisal estimates, inter alia, because the community support on which they depended never
materialized.
51.    Finally, the "cost containment" objective was lost sight of completely. The SAR had estimated
the unit cost of prefabricated classrooms at Rs. 55,000. Data collected during the completion mission
demonstrated that actual costs were double and frequently triple that figure. Construction costs also
absorbed a disproportionate share of project resources. They constituted over 70 percent of total project
costs, considerably higher than the 43 percent envisaged at Appraisal. While retaining architectural and
engineering firms raised quality, they undoubtedly also contributed to higher costs. One federal official
interviewed during the completion mission noted the high cost of such services and queried whether the
value added dimension was sufficient to justify the substantial cost increases. The completion mission
agreed with this official that a thorough cost/benefit analysis would be highly useful at this point.
52.    Integration of Proiect Inputs into Provincial Structures. The original design of PEP II was to start
with an experiment that would be fully integrated with the regular system by the end of the project. In
this respect, PEP II never moved beyond the first tranche. The Government was supposed to gradually
take over the Learning Coordinators and other inputs, but this was not done until the project closed. In
fact, an IDA supervision mission in early 1992 had to insist that the PIUs close down and their staff be
integrated with the regular structures. After long negotiations, a gradual integration began to take place.
Thus, as predicted during preparation, the parallel structures of the project and the provincial
administration systems proved to be one of the most difficult obstacles to overcome during
implementation.
53.    Achievement of an Experimental Design.  By and large, neither the Borrower nor IDA  was
interested in the experimental aspects of project design. As noted earlier, the FCU did little to foster the
experimental aspects of the project. There was no provision for research and evaluation in the provincial
distribution of credit proceeds; such research was to be funded by the federal project unit on a contract
basis. Most research that was conducted was undertaken by outside agencies.
54.    Conclusions.  The project tried to introduce new  inputs into the classroom  and change how
primary education was to be delivered and administered through a tranche approach. This approach
proved unworkable and had to be abandoned for several reasons. First and foremost was the PC-1
process, which basically was incompatible with the tranche approach." Moreover, relevant and timely
data and education officials trained to use it and a supportive and participatory community (prerequisites
for effective programming) did not exist. Even with data, skills, and community support, it would have
been difficult to overcome the high level of politically-motivated interference in the day-to-day operations
of education authorities at the district level. In any event, once classroom construction got out of synch
11/    Indeed, the PC-I system is likely to be in conflict with any project which uses either a tranche approach or the concept of
reaching annual agreements between the project authorities, the govermment and IDA to determine the following year's work program. This
practice is adopted increasingly frequently in operations financed by the World Bank, but cannot be expected to work where the PC-I gives
definite annual targets - as is likely to be necessary for approval by the Pakistani authorities.



14
and derailed the delivery of the other inputs linked to them, the hope that tranching would prove a
realistic and implementable strategy faded away.
55.    This was an ambitious and highly innovative project from both educational and institutional
perspectives. One useful paradigm for examining what determines the success of education innovations
is the "transactional model of implementation."" This model considers eight factors which influence
implementation, including: (a) organizational intelligence (the information gathering conducted prior to
and during implementation); (b) policy-setting (the process by which innovations are discussed and
introduced); (c) tasks and technologies (the clarity of activities to be undertaken); (d) management and
organization (the relationship of the innovation to the prevailing administrative structures); (e) field
implementation (the degree of ownership by those responsible for implementation); (f) clients (willingness
of target groups to accept the innovation); (g) culture (the innovation's compatibility with prevailing
cultural mores); and (h) politics (the degree of support from political leaders).
56.    PEP II introduced innovations and techniques that were outside the norms and values of the
organizations administering the project. Organizational intelligence was weak, both prior to and during
project implementation. Provincial field implementors had not been actively involved during preparation
to balance the ambitiousness of the implementation design and schedule with a sense of what could be
accomplished. Although actively involved during preparation, federal field implementors proved unable
to monitor or evaluate the investment or its outcomes.
57.    Insufficient attention was paid to management and organizational issues. Project designers did
not take into account the likely conservative reaction within provincial administrations or the rigidity of
the PC-1 system, factors which were likely to undermine any innovation or experimentation, and thus
which were particularly constraining for a project intended to be innovative and experimental.
Furthermore, opinions suggesting the difficulty of integrating project inputs into the mainstream were
largely ignored, and the goal of achieving a uniform administrative structure was not reinforced by the
project (e.g., by consistent policy dialogue) or monitored. The partial geographic coverage of the project
(in roughly one half of the districts in each participating province) gave rise to and perpetuated the duality
of education management.  As a consequence, throughout much of its implementation, PEP II
exacerbated, rather than reduced, differences between project and non-project staff and districts, impeding
both the implementation and institutionalization of the project's gains. Clients (whether teachers and
supervisory staff or project communities) felt a weak allegiance to the tasks and technologies -- namely,
the Learning Modules and self-help construction, respectively.
G.     Project Sustainabilitv
58.    Although the buildings constructed are likely to remain standing, and the teachers and supervisory
staff likely to remain on government payrolls, the value added to learning outcomes as a consequence of
the project and the likely sustainability of the learning inputs is moot.
59.    Learning Modules were a step in the right direction, but it is debatable whether they were the
right step, and equally debatable whether IDA should continue to support them. Pedagogic interventions
12/    See, for example, Warwick, Reimers, and McGinn, "The Implementation of Educational Innovations: Lessons from Pakistan",
Intemational Journal of Educational Development, Vol. 12, No. 4, pp. 297-307, 1992.



15
supported by other donors, such as lesson planning and annotated textbooks should be evaluated to
determine their effectiveness and impact on learning.
60.    There are two main sustainability lessons in both PEP II and its predecessor. One is that, in
order to be sustainable, innovations must be sensitive to the larger organization setting of which they will
be a part. Thus, whereas the new prefabrication approach was virtually doomed to failure, existing
provincial construction units had little trouble taking over classroom construction. Another sustainability
lesson is that there are no "teacher proof" educational innovations. Any attempts to change teaching
behavior in the classroom (and improve student achievement) will succeed only when teachers see the
benefit of such interventions and want to use them.
H.    IDA Performance
61.    Staff weeks spent to prepare, negotiate, and supervise the project are given in Table 3.8. During
implementation, IDA generally sent two multi-member missions to supervise the project per year, with
an average duration per mission of one week. Missions were appropriately staffed with educational
expertise, with at least one education specialist on each mission. The number of staff per visit ranged
from one to six, with an average of three; the number of staff weeks per visit varied from 1.2 to 19.8,
with an average of 8.8. Given prevailing norms or coefficients -- and speaking from a purely time-on-
task perspective -- it would appear that IDA devoted sufficient resources to supervising the project.
62.    Nevertheless, these aggregate figures mask problems of staffing consistency, mission focus, and
skills and gender mix. Moreover, they may be misleading in so far as they lead to equating time-on-task
with capacity to overcome problems exogenous to the project structure. The files suggest that the
project's design came to be viewed as the "brain child" of a staff member who prepared it but did not
stay on to supervise it. Because the design was too narrowly identified with this individual, it was not
owned or understood by the wider audience of IDA staff and the provincial PIUs. There was also a high
turnover in IDA headquarters staff. The greatest staffing continuity was provided by the Resident
Mission's education specialist project adviser, who participated in the bulk of the missions. However,
between effectiveness and mid-1989 (the first 3.5 years of implementation), four different education
specialists from Headquarters supervised the project. High turnover was probably exacerbated by the
1987 reorganization. Task Management consistency was eventually established from mid-1990 onward,
with the same staff member carrying PEP II through to its virtual conclusion. Since this latter staff
member was female, she was able to undertake site visits to some girls' schools (particularly in NWFP)
that male staff could not visit. (Female staff did not have difficulty in visiting boys' schools.)
63.   The staffing issue also compromised the quality of supervision during the initial stages of the
project, as new staff were constantly coming on board and having to learn the ropes. The first full
supervision mission -- which occurred during the first month after effectiveness -- raised a lot of solid
issues needing attention. IDA headquarters did not actively follow up on these issues for nearly 2 years,
however, i.e. until January 1988. Thus, a crucial opportunity to address problems at the outset of
implementation was lost.
64.    Furthermore, although the project was quite sound from an educational perspective, it was
doomed to flounder because of numerous unresolved organizational issues left pending. There was no
acknowledgement of an accepted pace for change, or the degree to which existing structures would resist
change. Thus, both project preparation and implementation would have benefited from the participation



16
of institutional development specialist, who might have brought greater sensitivity to the organizational
culture issues that were governing interactions and acceptance of innovation.
65.    Finally, supervision missions lacked the capacity to resolve problems stemming from the system's
reaction to the highly innovative nature of the inputs introduced by the project. The experience with the
Learning Modules provides a good example. Their success depended upon wide adoption by primary
teachers. The project supported teacher retraining and other means (such as the (Learning Coordinators)
in an effort to provide an enabling environment for adaption and change in the teacher/student interface.
Nevertheless, whatever the project provided was insufficient to motivate teachers to break with established
teaching patterns. Whether the project should have provided additional or other incentives or tried a
different approach than the Learning Modules altogether is debatable. What is not debatable is the fact
that, once launched, the Learning Module innovation had to run its course before its outcomes could be
determined, and there was little supervision missions could do one way or the other.
I.     Borrower Performance
66.    Essentially, PEP II sought to offset increased decentralization of project management with a
stronger role for the federal government in policy guidance, evaluation, and feedback. Credit financing
and legal covenants notwithstanding, the FCU never acquired the technical assistance or the staff that
would permit a strengthening of these functions. Thus, any scope for monitoring experiences on a
national scale was lost. In fact, the Federal Government relinquished what power to influence project
outcomes it did command by never hiring additional staff and playing a very weak role in the monitoring,
evaluation and assessment of project outcomes.
67.    PEP II witnessed the fitful transition from federal to provincially-based project management.
Previous experience had amply demonstrated that centralized administration and uniform solutions would
not work for IDA-financed education investments in Pakistan. Any doubts remaining were dispelled
during PEP II with the failure of the prefabricated approach (and resurfacing of provincial civil works
departments) and increasing decentralization of the Learning Modules and education management
information exercises. While the decentralization may have exacerbated implementation delays and
certainly made the project more difficult to implement from IDA's perspective (since it became more like
supervising three projects than one), it was an essential step toward stronger, single-province education
projects, which have become the norm and are a decided improvement over the past. One major
weakness, however, was assuming that these provincial units could take on the participatory planning and
management inherent in the tranche approach without substantial guidance.
J.     Government-IDA Dialogue during the Project
68.   The dialogue between IDA and Borrower officials preparing the project was generally frank and
open--with significant input from the latter. Nevertheless, the primary contact remained between IDA
and federal officials, not the provincial administrative cadres--much less the communities or schools
themselves--who would ultimately implement and own the project.  Subsequent implementation
demonstrated that inattention to local ownership issues and innovation adoption processes were some of
the most significant oversights of the preparation phase.



17
K.      Documentation and Data Relating to the Project
69.    The Staff Appraisal Report could have provided a useful framework for PEP II had the
implementation of the innovations and the policy reforms followed the course anticipated at Appraisal.
Management arrangements at both federal and provincial levels were adequately spelled out in the SAR.
Similarly, detailed annexes described the guidelines for preparation of LMs and in-service training
programs, as well as district proposals essential to the tranche approach.
70.    The legal agreements were intended to provide the structure for policy reform  and innovation.
However, in practice the project was not implemented as designed (Table 3.7), and ironically, covenants
may have been adhered to more in the letter than the spirit of their intent." The FCU was never
completely and adequately staffed, and certainly never served its information gathering, clearing-house,
or M&E function. The development of Learning Modules floundered and eventually had to be de-linked
from the in-service training program. The tranche approach failed and was abandoned, rendering useless
the covenants guiding preparation of tranche proposals. In any event, the scope and structure of the
innovations, as presented in the SAR and synthesized in the Credit Agreement, were too sophisticated
and ambitious for the implementation capacity of provincial implementation units charged with the
function.
71.    Provincial PIUs did a commendable job in reporting throughout implementation.  The reports
provided to the Completion Mission in January 1993 were especially useful. In the final analysis,
however, a lack of uniformity and standardization -- which could have been achieved had the data been
collated and synthesized at the federal level -- detracted from the overall usefulness of the data.
13/     This observation is borne out in the internal World Bank paper: "Pakistan Education Projects: Analysis of Policy
Conditionality, " April 1993. Paragraph 5 states: "even with regard to many of the fulfilled conditions, there is little desire/comtnitment on
the part of government officials to implement the objective or 'spirit' of the policy reform; that is, these policy conditions are not seen as a
basis for which fundamental improvements in quality, access and equity of education can be brought about".



18
PART II. PROJECT PREVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
72.    Based on the positive and encouraging outcomes of the experimental Primary Project launched
in all the four provinces during the year 1979-80, a follow-on Primary Education Development and
Expansion project, known as Primary Education II Project, was launched in the selected 19 districts of
the three participating Provinces of Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan, w.e.f. 01.10.1985. The total cost
of the Project was Rs. 1168.525 million. The World Bank provided an IDA credit of US$52.5 million
for the Project.
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
73.    The Project was mostly operational with a minor experimental component. The project was
aimed at achieving universalization of Primary Education along with the qualitative regeneration. The
Project attempted to enhance the participation rate in the 19 districts of the project (nearly 54% of the
total schools in Sindh, NWFP, Balochistan) to the extent it was possible. The Project endeavored to
replace the old instructional model by one that is more relevant, efficient and effective, based on the
concepts of experience, discovery, structured two-way interaction rather than telling, memorization, drill
and one-way interaction. Attempts were also made to ensure that the contents of instructional material
as reflected in the 'Learning Modules' would be as relevant to the life of the child as possible. It was
assumed that the reorientation of contents and methodology would introduce more 'meaning' to the
process of education. Such a change, coupled with attempts to involve the community, was bound to
increase the demand for education on the part of parents as well as the society. In its turn, demand
would enhance the enrolment rate and reduce the dropout rate. Thus a way would be paved to secure
the objectives of the plan within the sector of Primary Education vis-a-vis participation, literacy and
dropout rates as well as the targets regarding total enrollment.
74.    The specific objectives of the Project were:
(a)  In quantitative terms (i) the enrolment in Grade I of every child in the project area by the
end of the project period i.e. 1993 and (ii) the reduction of drop out to an insignificant level
i.e. less than 5%.
(b)  In qualitative terms, the improvement of (i) the professional supervision of the primary
schools; (ii) the provision of concrete experiences to children in the school; and (iii) the
effectiveness of the children as assessed by criterion-referenced instruments.
(c)  In terms of physical facilities, to ensure adequate accommnodation and working conditions
for the schools.
(d)  In professional terms (i) the development of instructional material and learning modules both
for teacher training and classroom use; (ii) the conduct of in-service programme at all levels
utilizing such materials and modules; and (iii) the conduct of an experimental and
innovatory programme to enhance the relevance and functionality of primary school
activities.
(e)  In planning and management terms, to develop (i) a data collection, storage and retrieval
system which could assist the effective planning and management of primary education; (ii)
a two-way communication system to ensure an easy flow of relevant information from the



19
top to the field, as well as of the feedback from the field to the top; and (iii) such financial
and accounting procedures as may make meaningful financial analysis possible.
(f)  In communication terms to institutionalize a development support communication system at
grass-roots level.
(g)  In community terms, to generate and institutionalize community support for the benefit of
primary education.
(h)  In research terms, to undertake such monitoring, studies and experimentation as may (i)
help identify the necessary modifications at an appropriate time in all activities envisaged
within the project with a view to optimizing the efficiency and effectiveness of the project
inputs; (ii) lay bare the actual dynamics of the Pakistani situation with identification of likely
trends to ensure a match between the project inputs and the ever changing reality and; (iii)
to provide relevant information which makes decision making in respect of the quality
dimension feasible and possible.
(i)  In evaluation terms, to monitor and record all that happens in the project in such a way that
the experiences gained in the working of this project may be of help in similar situations
existing elsewhere.
Scope of the Project
75.   The Project covered all the Primary Schools of the 16 districts included in the experimental
Primary Education Project plus three additional districts in the newly created divisions, one in NWFP
and two in Balochistan. The province-wise position of the Project given in the PCi is as under:
Province    Total No. of     Districts covered  Schools in the       Schools in
Districts of the    by PEP II      experimental Primary   PEP II
Province                           Education Project
Sindh        15               8                400                    8100
NWFP         13               5                1250                  4700
Balochistan   17              6                650                    1250
Total        45              19                2300                  14050
76.        The following were the broad component of the Project:
(a)  Physical facilities.
(b)  Education Materials and Learning Modules
(c)  Training
(d)  Professional Services, Technical Assistance and Staff Development
(e)  Strengthening Supervision and Implementation Capacity



20
(f) Operation and Maintenance.
Proiect Statistics
Sindh    N.W.F.P.       Balochistan           Total
Primary            M        6700          3600            1000            11300
Schools            F         1400         1100             250             2750
T        8100         4700             1250           14050
No. of             M         528           384              73              985
Children           F          112           93              72              277
(in 000)           T         640           477             145             1262
No. of             M        14997         6036            2476            23509
Teachers           F        2777          2115             806             5698
T       17774         8151            3282            29207
Districts                      8             5               6               19
Tehsils                       52            12              16               80
Union Councils               483           267              81              831
No. of additional class-rooms to be constructed under the Project
Sindh    N.W.F.P.       Balochistan           Total
3000         2000            1000             6000
No. of Vehicles Drovided for in the PC-I form
Type                        Sindh    N.W.F.P.       Balochistan           Total
M/Cycle                      492           211              84              787
Vans                          154           47              78              279
Provision made for additional field staff viz SDEO/ASDEO. Learning Coordinator. Assistant Teachers
etc.
Category                    Sindh    N.W.F.P.       Balochistan           Total
M  F    M   F    M    F                       M  F
District/                 28  28        2    7        6      8           36 43
Sub District
Offices
Learning                381  111       205  74      84      24          670 209
Coordinators



21
Assistant                762  644      410  296        336  96         1508 1036
Teachers
No. of Learning Modules to be developed
A total number of 216 Learning Modules, excluding 60 Learning Modules in Sindhi Language
were to be developed as per details given below:
Math                 12 x 5                           60
Language (Urdu)      12 x 5                           60
Language (Sindhi)    12 x 5                           60
Science              12 x 2                           24
Social Studies       12 x 2                           24
Pakistan Studies     12 x 2                           24
Islamiat             12 x 5                           60
Fellowships
There was provision for 54 M/M of foreign fellowships as per details given below:
Federal Coordinating Unit:
Research & Evaluation                  =             One
Learning Modules and Materials         =             One
Provincial Implementation Unit
Data Management                        =           Three
Learning Modules                       =           Three
Total Fellowships                      =            Eight
Average period of Fellowships          =        6 months
Short visit & Training  8 x 6          =         48 M/M
=        6 persons
Total                           54
Technical Assistance
Foreign Advisers/Consultants
1. Long-term Advisers                            60 M/M
2. Short-term Consultants in Learning
Modules and Training                          30 M/M
3. Other Consultancies                           15 M/M
Local Advisers/Consultants
1. Long-term Advisers                            60 M/M
2. Short-term Consultants                        24 M/M



22
3. Contract Services for Dissemination of
evaluation and research                       36 M/M
Total                              225 M/M
Training of Supervisory Staff and Primary School Teachers were to be undertaken at three levels
viz 'A', 'B' and 'C' in three cycles commencing from the year 1985, 1986 and 1987. The details are
given below:
A-Level
Master-Trainers Workshop at the Federal Level
Three Workshops                  July, 1985, 1986 and 1987
Duration                          6 Days
No. of Master Trainers                40
B-Level
SDEO: ASDEOS and Learning Coordinators at District Level
Three Cycles                September 1985, 1986 and 1987
Duration                          6 Days
No. of Trainees                 1st Cycle            500
2nd Cycle             750
3rd Cycle           1000
C-Level
Three Cycles                September 1985, 1986 and 1987
Duration                           6 days
1st Cycle          12000
2nd Cycle          24000
3rd Cycle          36000



23
Project Cost
a. Physical Facilities                                                  Rs.m.
i.   Civil Works                                                402.464
ii.   Furniture & Equipment                                      32.372
iii.  Vehicles                                                   31.018
Sub Total        465.854
b. Educational Materials
i    Classroom Equipment                                         30.449
ii.   Learning Modules                                           26.442
Sub Total         56.931
c. Training                                          Sub Total         27.662
d. Technical Assistance
i.   Consultants                                                 24.722
ii.   Professional Services                                      22.667
iii.  Fellowships                                                 2.315
Sub Total         44.704
e. Recurrent Cost
i.   Staff Salaries, TA/DA and Allowances                       213.462
ii.   Building Maintenance                                        0.362
iii.  Vehicles Overhauls                                         34.921
iv.   Office Rent                                                 2.164
Sub Total        253.032
Total Base Cost                                                 853.142
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                     85.314
Price Contingencies (26.96%)                                    230.070
Grand Total       1.168.525
(Rs. 15.5 = $1 at the time of the execution of the project).



24
PROGRESS ACHIEVED BY THE COMPLETION OF THE PROJECT
77.    The Second Primary Education Project was launched in the three participating provinces of Sindh,
NWFP and Balochistan w.e.f. 01.10.1985. The IDA Credit of US$52.50 million became effective from
17.01.86.  The implementation of the Project was undertaken by independent and viable Project
Implementation Units created in each of the participating provinces for the purpose. PIUs were headed
by a Project Director who was directly under the administrative control of the respective Provincial
Education Secretaries.
78.    The Federal Coordinating Unit (FCU) was also established at the Federal level to provide
assistance and guidance to the PlUs in the implementation of the Project. FCU was responsible for
securing funds from the World Bank as well as claiming reimbursement of the expenditure incurred by
the provinces in accordance with the provision contained in the Credit Agreement.
79.    The civil works under Primary Education II Project was initially led by the FCU with the
assistance of construction manager appointed by Government of Pakistan and World Bank. A total
number of 6,000 class rooms were to be added to the existing primary schools in the 19 districts of the
three participating provinces. The selection of primary schools qualifying for the addition of classrooms
was determined by the twelve well-defined criteria agreed with the World Bank. Since some of the
construction under the experimental Primary Education project was found deficient and defective, the
World Bank advised the adoption of pre-fabricated technology for the construction of new class rooms.
The World Bank also suggested the adoption of ICB procedures for the award of contracts for civil work.
In order to undertake the lengthy and time-consuming procedures of 1CB, applications for pre-
qualifications from national/international firms were invited through advertisement in the
national/international press.   A  total number of 114 national/international firms applied for
prequalification, but only 19 firms qualified to compete for the civil works. After obtaining clearance
from the World Bank, tender documents were issued to 15 firms by NESPAK. Eight national/
international firms had submitted a total of 16 tenders.
80.    M/S A-Husseini-ADA  and Haramain Limited offered the lowest tenders for NWFP and
Balochistan, but did not quote for Sindh. The tenders for the Sindh Province quoted by the remaining
seven firms were abnormally on the high side and therefore, no tender was accepted for civil works in
Sindh.  It was decided to re-tender civil works for Sindh Province.  The re-tendering was also
undertaken.
81.   In response to advertisements in the national/international press, a total number of 29 applications
were received for pre-qualification by national/international firms for the construction of 3,000 class
rooms in the Province of Sindh. However, only five firms had collected the tender documents, while
only four quoted their rates for one package only, against the five packages made for the civil works in
the Province of Sindh. It may be added that to facilitate local and smaller contractors to compete for civil
works in Sindh, five packages were made for the purpose.
82.   The rates offered by the competing firms were again abnormally high. It was, therefore, decided,
with the approval of the World Bank, to allow execution of the construction work under Primary
Education II Project in the Province of Sindh through LCB, instead of ICB.  Accordingly, the
construction work was entrusted to the Directorate of Engineering Works Education Department,
Government of Sindh, who developed its own strategy letting out work and specifications of construction,
keeping in view the local conditions.



25
83.   M/S Al-Husseini-ADA and Haramain Limited who were the lowest bidders for NWFP and
Balochistan were awarded the contract after obtaining approval of the World Bank. The total amount of
the contract awarded to the above-mentioned joint venture for the construction of 3,000 classrooms (2,000
in NWFP and 1,000 in Balochistan) was Rs 241.0072 million. Accordingly the contract agreement was
signed with the firm.
84.   While awarding the contract to the firms, a clause to the effect that the firm would construct
initially 500 classrooms in the two Provinces as per identification of Primary Schools made in the first
tranche proposal was incorporated in the Letter of Acceptance issued to the contractor. The firm was
to proceed further only after evaluation of the first 500 classrooms.
85.   According to the terms of the contract made with the firm, the firm was required to put up a
prototype classroom within the period of six months from the date of issue of the letter to proceed by the
Engineer.
86.   The firm constructed two prototype rooms with veranda at Lahore which was their Headquarters.
The then Education Minister, in the company of Deputy Chairman Planning Commission, Education
Secretary, Secretary Communications and Works Department, Government of the Punjab and the
NESPAK representative inspected the prototype put up by the firm at Lahore. On finding them sub-
standard, the inspection team suggested several improvements related to the design and construction
details, as well as the quality of workmanship. So the contractors were allowed to improve the quality
of prototype and get it re-examined/approved before proceeding further.
87.   The contractors sought a few clarifications regarding the redesigning but demanded extra cost for
additional work. However, the contractors constructed two more prototype classrooms at Lahore, which
were finally approved by the Education Ministry with some modifications. The contractors were allowed
to proceed with the work.
88.   The contractors were initially allocated the work for the construction of 500 classrooms only as
per schedule given below
S. No.      Period                        Rooms to be Completed
1.         February, 1989                           5
2.         March, 1989                             30
3.         April, 1989                            120
4.         May, 1989                              120
5.         June, 1989                             120
6.         July, 1989                             105
Total                                 500
89.        The contractor could not adhere to the above schedule as they could complete only 18
classrooms in NWFP and 6 semi-constructed classrooms in Balochistan by October, 1989.



26
TERMINATION OF CONTRACT AGREEMENT
90.   The slow pace of construction work in NWFP and Balochistan was causi,lg financial losses to the
Government. Therefore, a joint meeting under the Chairmanship of Education Minister was held on 12-
10-1989 to review the status of progress made by contractor. After detailed discussion it was decided
in the meeting that the contract given to M/S Husseini ADA Limited and Haramain Limited joint-venture
be terminated. In pursuance of the decision taken in the meeting, a termination notice was served to the
contractor. The World Bank was simultaneously approached to agree to the transfer of the construction
work to the Provincial Government of NWFP and Balochistan. The necessary formalities were made to
take over the charge of the sites from the contractor and to hand over it for construction to
Communication and Works Department (C&W) in NWFP and Directorate of Civil Engineering in
Balochistan.
Civil Works
91.   On the failure of the contractor to abide by its contractual obligation for the construction of 500
additional classrooms in the Project Area Schools of NWFP and Balochistan in the stipulated period, the
contract was terminated and the job for the construction of additional schools in NWFP and Balochistan
was entrusted to C&W Department in NWFP and Directorate of Civil Engineering cell in the Province
of Balochistan. As stated earlier, the Directorate of Civil Engineering Works, Hyderabad was also
assigned the job for the construction of 3,000 additional classrooms in Sindh. Thus, the idea of the
World Bank for the use of Prototype material for the conventional construction of the prefabricated
classrooms instead of conventional mode of construction was discarded altogether and the Provincial
Government of Sindh, NWFP, and Balochistan were authorized with the approval of World Bank for the
use of conventional technology and local competitive bidding, instead of the prototype technology through
international competitive bidding, after a lapse of more than three years. The construction of boundary
walls, lavatory blocks and the repair of existing classrooms in the Project Area schools of Sindh, NWFP
and Balochistan was also allocated to the Provincial Education Departments. With the appreciation of
SDR versus Pakistani Rupees, more funds were diverted to construction of schools. Therefore, the
number of additional classrooms constructed under PEP II was more than the targeted number. The
Province-wise break-up of additional classrooms constructed under PEP II is as under:
Province      Appraisal     Revised               Actual      Achievement%
Target           Completion   (of revised target)
Sindh             3000        3513                  3504              99.74
NWFP              2000        2809                 2697               99.64
102 (in progress)
Balochistan       1000         1500                 1500             100.00
Minor Civil Works
92.        In addition to the construction of additional classrooms, the following minor civil works
were also undertaken during the Project period in the participating provinces.
Sindh                NWFP            Balochistan
1. Boundary Walls             1719                   428                   50



27
2. Lavatory Blocks             1477                    160                  --
3. Repair of Classrooms        1557                    ---                1811
Learning Modules
93.        The Project provides for the adoption of an innovative technique/methodology to improve
the quality of primary education, which was one of the main objectives of the Primary Education II
Project. For the improvement of the quality of instruction at the primary level, it was proposed that
learning modules conforming to the guidelines given in the SAR, be developed for various subjects and
grades, which should be used by the teachers/students and supervisory staff. It was envisaged that the
adoption of the demonstrative method of teaching, discarding the prevalent traditional method (which
relied heavily on chanting drills and unintelligent cramming by the children) would improve the quality
of primary education as well as serve as an effective instrument to the enrichment of primary school
teachers' knowledge of the various concepts of the curricula. Since it was an innovation and there was
no expertise available in the country for the preparation of Learning Modules, it was therefore decided
to entrust the job to the National Institute of Psychology (NIP). The NIP which had already done an
exceptionally good research and evaluation work in the field of Primary Education, willingly agreed to
accept the job of development of Learning Modules under Primary Education II Project.
94.        An agreement for the development of Learning Modules was therefore signed with NIP after
seeking approval from the World Bank. A total number of 72 Learning Modules were developed by NIP,
including 18 Learning Modules, which were required to be sent to the World Bank at the time of Board's
presentation of Primary Education II Project.
95.        The 72 Learning Modules developed by NIP, including the 18 Learning Modules referred
to above, were sent to the Provincial Implementation Units. The PEP II Project Directors expressed their
dissatisfaction of the contents of the Learning Modules. They were specifically critical of the inherent
deficiencies in content, besides the pedagogical weaknesses of these 72 Learning Modules.
96.        The staff engaged by the NIP for the development of Learning Modules were invariably
qualified psychologists. They did not possess the competency in the subjects of science and mathematics.
Besides, they had no pedagogical training. In order to meet the demands of the Project Directors and
to develop the Learning Modules strictly in accordance with the guidelines contained in the SAR, it was
decided to set up Module Writers Committees at the Provincial levels. The committees set up at the
Provincial level too proved ineffective and the job of preparation of Learning Modules could not proceed
smoothly. One of the main reasons was that the subject specialists nominated as members of the
Provincial Module Writers Committees were not being allowed by their respective organizations to work
on these committees on a full-time basis. This 'makeshift' arrangement too did not prove helpful.
Despite best efforts, a total number of 54 Learning Modules only could only be developed by the
Provincial Module Writers Committees. So, a three member National Standing Committee was set up
at the Federal Level to examine and approve the Learning Modules developed by the Provincial
Committees.
97.        The National Committee in its first meeting held in the Federal Coordinating Unit reviewed
the set of Learning Modules developed by Provincial Module Writing Committees and approved only
eleven Learning Modules.



28
98.        The Learning Modules which were not approved by the National Standing Committee were
sent back to the respective Provinces for carrying out the necessary revisions in the light of the
observations/suggestions given by the National Standing Committee on each Learning Module.
99.        The Project Directors again were not satisfied with this arrangement. They pleaded for the
creation of independent Module Writers cells in the PIUs so that they could engage competent and
qualified subject specialists on a full-time basis. Taking into consideration the genuine demand of the
Project Directors, it was proposed by the Project Directors that a PC-II form be moved by them for the
creation of separate, independent and viable Learning Module Writers Cells in the PIUs. It was also
decided that the expenditure involved would be met out of the provision available in the Project under
the category 'Technical Assistance' (Local Consultancy Services). The World Bank was also approached
to give its formal no objection to the creation of Learning Module Writers cells in the PIUs, as well as
to meet the expenditure involved out of the provisions available in the project under the category
'Technical Assistance' (Local Consultancy Services). The World Bank conveyed its approval and the
Project Directors were advised to prepare a PC-II form for the above purpose.
100.       Accordingly, Module Writer Cells were established, one each in the Provincial
Implementation Unit of Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan.
101.       The World Bank supervision mission which visited Pakistan in the month of January 1988
suggested postponing the further development of Learning Modules, until such time as the field
testing/trials (measuring the impact of these on the supervisory staff, teachers and students) were carried
out (through the active involvement of the Bureaux of Curriculum of the three participating Provinces).
In order to undertake this exercise, necessary instruments were developed by the Bureaux of Curriculum,
Hyderabad, Quetta and Abbottabad; these were further refined and finalized in a joint meeting of Project
Directors and Directors, Bureaux of Curriculum of Sindh/NWFP/Balochistan.
102.       In the above-mentioned field testing/trials carried out in the three Provinces, the respective
Directors, Bureaux of Curriculum and Education Extension Centers, deputed their Subject Specialists for
observing these field exercises/trails and recording their impressions through interviews of the
Teachers/Learning coordinators/Supervisors. Interviews were also taped for subsequent analysis.
103.       The 18 Learning Modules initially developed by NIP and approved by the National Standing
Committee were introduced in 5 % of the project schools.
104.       The main findings and recommendations by the Provincial Bureaux, Balochistan, NWFP
and Sindh are reproduced below.
Balochistan
105.       The results of field testing showed that modular approach is an effective way for developing
specific knowledge, skills and attitudes among students. During the study, overall improvement was felt
in content areas and it was identified that modules not only enrich the student's knowledge but also
facilitate the teachers to teach effectively. It was observed that when teachers presented their lessons and
organized module activities according to the specific objectives of the modules, this enabled the students
to gain the needed insights and helped them to develop the skills essential for performing activities. The
very encouraging aspect in this regard was that the activities were performed by the students willingly
and with great enthusiasm. The results of field testing reflect the qualitative aspect of the module as



29
effective and economical. The modules, if properly used, could prove a beneficial source for developing
skills and knowledge of various concepts. The modules used during the field testing were according to
the age-level of students and subject-matter areas.
106.       N.W.F.P.
(a) This innovative approach is more effective and is according to the temperament of both the
teachers and the taught.
(b) It ensures the mobility of both the teachers and the taught in classroom situation.
(c) It removes the idleness and disinterestedness of the educators.
(d) It brings a vivid behavioral change, to both teachers and students.
(e) It fascinates the teachers to be committed to the profession and to become professionals.
(f) It creates confidence among teachers and the students which is a pre-requisite for the
teaching/learning process.
(g) This innovative approach removes the teacher from the traditional teaching and saves the students
from rote memorization.
107.  Sindh
(a) Teachers have demonstrated well while delivering the lessons in the actual classroom situation.
(b) Teachers and supervisors have suggested that audio-visual aids may be supplied along with
modules.
(c) Modules in all the subjects may be supplied to every school.
(d) Mastery test on some of the modules need revision in accordance with the objectives of the
modules.
(e) Teachers and supervisors are of the view that modules do increase the efficiency of teachers in
actual classroom situation.
108.  The three Evaluation Reports prepared by the Directors of the Bureaux of Curriculum and
Education Extension Centers, were placed before the Project Directors in a joint periodic meeting,
wherein the Evaluation Reports were examined in detail. The evaluation job done by the Bureaux of
Curriculum and Education Extension Centers was highly commended, since these reports reaffirmed the
efficacy and usefulness of the learning modules in improving the competency level of Primary School
Teachers, thereby improving the quality of instruction at the primary level.



30
109.  The work for the development of the Learning Modules resumed again; however, the Project
Directors argued for the reconstitution of the National Standing Committee on Learning Modules, taking
into consideration the not so happy experience/work done by the existing committee. Taking into
consideration their genuine demand, it was therefore decided to reconstitute the National Committee,
which was supposed to review the Learning Modules developed by the Learning Module Writer Cells.
The revised setup worked till the completion of the Project.
110.  The Province-wise detail of Learning Modules developed and distributed among the Project area
schools is as under:-
S. No.     Province                 Modules to be developed      Modules developed
1.         NWFP                            204                        204
2.         Sindh                           252                        250
3.         Balochistan                     110                        106
Traing
111.       The Project envisaged three levels of training (viz levels, A, B, C); three-yearly cycles,
commencing from the year 1985.
112.       Master Trainers, under level 'A' training, received training at the Federal level. Level
training 'B' was conducted at the District Level by the Project Directors (for the supervisory staff).
Level 'C' training of the Primary School Teachers was school-based.
113.       All three types of training were focussed primarily upon the use of Learning Modules. The
introduction of Learning Modules, it was hoped, would foster the participation of teachers and the
children were supposed to participate in the teaching/learning process.
114.       The number of Master Trainers, supervisors and teachers given training at 'A', 'B' and 'C'
level workshops during the first, second and third cycles are given below:
Level of
Training              Sindh       NWFP          Balochistan      Total
'A'                     55           43                28         126
'B'                  13601          805               340        2514
'C'                  27202        28894              5093       61189
Total               40,858        29742              5461       63829
Technical Assistance Fellowships
115.       There was a provision of 54 n/m for fellowships/short study visits and training in the field
of Learning Modules and Data Management. The following nominees of the PIU were sent for foreign
training in the field of Learning Modules at REKSAM, Malaysia from August 24 to November 7, 1987.



31
Sindh
Mrs. Shamsa Faruqui
Deputy Director (Admn)
Mr. Azizullah Memon
Associate (Training)
NWFP
Mr. Fazal-e-Qadir
Deputy Director (Training)
Qazi Mohanunad Hassan
Associate (Training)
Balochistan
Mr. Mobeen Shah
Associate (Training)
Mr. Mohammad Hassan
Associate (Training)
116.       The following nominees of the PIUs were sent for foreign training in the field of Data
Management at Asian Institute of Technology (AIT) Bangkok from September 5, 1988 to June 8, 1989.
Srindh
Mr. Ranjo Khan Zardari
Deputy Director (Training)
Mr. Ishraq-ud-Din Ahmed
Associate (Data Management)
NWFP
Mian Muzzafar Shah
Deputy Director (Operation)
Qazi Abdul Jalil
Assistant Director
Balochistan
Mr. Moharnmad Javed
Associate (Evaluation



32
Mr. Manzoor Ali Qambree
Associate (Data Management)
117.       Pursuant to the provision of 6 m/m in the PC-I for short study visits, a four-person
delegation, consisting of the following officials visited Jordan and Turkey from 30 September 1988 to
10 October, 1988. The study visit was arranged at the request of the Project Directors, to enable them
to observe the system of education of the two Muslim countries, particularly the strategies adopted for
the promotion and expansion of primary education, with a view to achieve universalization of primary
education.
Mrs. Razia Shah
Project Director
PIU Sindh
Mr. Mohammad Naseer Khawaja
Project Director
PIU Balochistan
Mr. Sherin Jan Khan
Project Director
PIU NWFP
Prof M.H. Qureshi
Deputy Educational Advisor
FCU, PNE Wing
118.       A 15-member delegation headed by the Education Secretary visited South Korea from March
10 to 16, 1991 to observe the development and progress made by that country in the field of Primary
Education.
119.       A four-member delegation, one each from Sindh, Balochistan, NWFP and the Federal
Ministry of Education visited Malaysia for a five day study tour in February 1992 under the fellowship
program, to observe the various development programs in the field of Primary Education of a Muslim
country.
Technical Assistance Appointment of Long-Term/Short-Term Consultants
120.       Dr. L.R. Davis, whose services were acquired under 1st Primary Education Project, was
engaged as a foreign consultant through UNDP, after the expiry of his contract with UNESCO. He
remained working on PEP 11 from 01.07.86 to 30.06.1988. In order to find a suitable substitute, the
Embassy of Pakistan in UK, USA, Canada and Australia were asked to contact Universities of repute and
suggest the names of a few professionally competent and experienced educationists, who would be
engaged as long-term as well as short-term consultants in the following fields:
(a)    Development of Learning Modules
(b)    Supervision and Teacher Training Programmes
(c)    Development of Computerized Management Information System



33
121.   Detailed of terms of reference and job descriptions were also drawn up and sent to the Pakistani
Embassies in the countries concerned. In response to our request we received a number of curriculum
vitae. A short-listing of suitable candidates was prepared and placed before a committee constituted for
the selection of foreign consultants. The committee met on 04.04.1988 and recommended the following
persons as long term as well as short term consultants:
Long Term-Consultants
Mr. Edward 0. Regan
Mr. William H. Holloway
Mr. Mark Bray
Short-Term Consultants for Learning Materials/Trainin,g of Teachers
Mrs. Mary C. Muller
Mr. David John Daniels
Dr. John Cumming
Management Information System
Mr. T. Craig Montgomerie
122.  After receiving the approval of the Education Secretary, the list containing the names of the
foreign consultants referred to above along with their CVs was sent to UNDP for contacting and
acquiring their services.
123.   Despite the best efforts, UNDP was not able to acquire the services of any of the selected
candidates.
124.  However, UNDP on its own sent a CV of one Dr. David Howard Ball for consideration as a
long-term consultant. Since Dr. Ball had a very limited practical working experience in the field of
primary education to his credit, the Ministry expressed its inability to utilize the services of Dr. Ball and
requested UNDP again to explore the possibilities of sending us CVs of at least three candidates for the
job to enable us to select the most suitable person for the assignment.
125.  In response, UNDP sent a CV for Mrs. Elizabeth Sweeting informing that she would be available
to work as Learning Modules Adviser from 1st April, 1989.
126.  The Education Secretary was pleased to approve of the candidature of Mrs. Sweeting as a
consultant on learning modules in view of her specialization in the field of production of Learning
Modules as well as working knowledge of Urdu language teaching.
127.  Mrs. Sweeting, a short-term foreign consultant joined the FCU in July 1989. She remained
associated with PEP II for four months only. During her stay in FCU she assisted the FCU in organizing
a training workshop for Module Writers from October 2-8, 1989.



34
128.  Dr. S.B. Khan was also engaged as foreign consultant under the Project to assist the
implementation units of Sindh, Balochistan, and NWFP to carry out research and evaluation of Project
inputs.
Appointment of Long-Term/Short-Term Local Consultants
129.  In pursuance of the 120 m/m provision for long/short-term local consultants/advisers, under the
Project, applications were invited through advertisement in the National Press for the selection of short-
term local consultants for the following fields:
(a)    Development of Learning Modules
(b)    Supervision and Teacher Training Programmes
(c)    Development of Computerized Management Information System
130.  In response, the CVs of six candidates were received. The Education Secretary approved of the
engagement of Prof. K.A. Hashmi from Punjab and Mr. Mohammad Saghir Sheikh from Sindh as
consultants in the field of 'Learning Modules' and 'Training of Teachers' respectively for an initial period
of 12 months.
131.  Offer letters were sent to both the candidates on 11. 12.87 but they failed to get themselves
relieved of their duties from their parent departments to join the Project.
132.  Applications were again invited from competent educationists/ experts (serving as well as retired)
through advertisement in the newspapers. In response, the CVs of 4 candidates were received.
133.  The committee consisting of the following was constituted by the Education Secretary to scrutinize
the CVs and submit its recommendations to him.
i.  DG, AEPAM                Chairman
ii. JEA (FIW)              Member
iii. JEA (PNE)             Member
134.  The committee met on 05.02.89 in the office of the DG, AEPAM and after going through the
terms of reference and the CVs of the applicants, made the following recommendations:
(a)    Syed Abdul Haq Shah from Sindh might be offered consultancy for an initial period of 6
months in the field of development of Learning Modules.
(b)    Mr. M.U. Shamim Siddiqui from NWFP might be offered consultancy for an initial period
of six months in the field of development of Learning Modules.
(c)    Dr. Ali Asghar Malik from Punjab might be offered the consultancy for an initial period
of six months in the field of Research and Evaluation.
135.  On the recommendation of the Selection Committee, offer letters were sent to the successful
candidates. In response, Syed Abdul Haq Shah joined the Project as a local consultant on 15.11.1989.
He was engaged initially for a period of six months but left the Project on 21.11.92 (before the
completion of his tenure of consultancy services due to illness).



35
Procurement of Vehicles
136.  Keeping in view the frustrating and not so happy experience of procurement of vehicles under
the Primary Education Project (through the Director General Supplies, Karachi,) the World Bank had
suggested the utilization of services of UNICEF, which had a well organized procurement service and
the necessary expertise for the job. After obtaining no objection from the concerned Ministries for
entrusting the job to UNICEF, as well as procurement of vehicles through ICB, UNICEF was requested
to accept the job of procurement of vehicles needed under the project. UNICEF agreed to procure the
vehicles and requested a deposit of the sum of US$1.77115 million for the purposes. The amount was
remitted to UNICEF through a cheque on 01.12.86. In order to facilitate UNICEF's procurement of
vehicles through ICB conforming to the needs of the Provinces, the necessary specification of vehicle (i.e.
motor cycles, jeeps and vans), duly approved by the World Bank, were supplied to UNICEF. UNICEF
had its own procedure of procurement on a reimbursable basis. It, therefore, expressed its inability to
follow the ICB procedure outlined in the World Bank Procurement Guidelines. The FCU was therefore
placed in a difficulty as to how to obtain vehicles which were urgently needed by the Project Directors
for the mobility of supervisory staff. Since UNICEF was not willing to follow ICB procedure, the World
Bank suggested procurement through one of the following international organizations:
(a)    ILO/Equipro
(b)    Crown Agents.
137.  M.S Crown Agents were therefore contacted to arrange the procurement as per details given
below:
S.No.      Province             Categorv      Number Required
1.         Sindh               Motor Cycles               493
Jeeps                      93
2.         NWFP                 Motor Cycles              206
Vans                        6
Jeeps                       7
3.         Balochistan          Motor Cycles               84
Vans                       14
Jeeps                      14
138.       The amount of US$1.77115 million given in advance to UNICEF was transferred to the
accounts of M/s Crown Agents maintained in New York on 03.03.87. A proper agreement for the
procurement of vehicles by M/S Crown Agents was cleared by the World Bank on 03.03.87 and signed
by the Ministry and M/S Crown Agents on 11.06.87. Tender for the vehicles from M/S Crown Agents
appeared in the local press on 02.06.87. The last date for the receipt of bids was 31.07.87.
139.       After bid evaluation, the order for the supply of vehicles needed by the Project Directors
was placed to the lowest bidder through Crown Agents and the requisite number of vehicles were supplied
to Project Implementation Unit.



36
140.       After the supply of necessary vehicles, the Project Director, Balochistan, made an additional
demand of 30 motor cycles for the Learning Coordinators. But since M/s Crown Agent expressed its
inability to arrange the supply of additional Suzuki motor-cycles on account of non-production of these
motor-cycles by Pak Suzuki Motors, PD Balochistan was allowed to procure these from the local market.
The World Bank also agreed to allow the purchase of the motor-cycles through LCB taking into
consideration the fact that the lowest tendered (viz. Pak Suzuki Motor) Company were unable to meet
the additional demand. Project Director, Balochistan, could not procure the additional 30 motor-cycles
because of non-response to the tenders issued thrice in the press.
Furniture and Equipment
141.  The provision available in the PC-I form for furniture and equipment for each province was as
under:
Province                         Rs. Million
Sindh                            15.945
NWFP                              9.891
Balochistan                       5.418
NWFP
142.   2809 units of equipment and furniture were supplied to 2089 class rooms. National teaching kits
supplied to 792 class rooms, whereas 2017 are under supply by the National Equipment Centre, Ministry
of Education, Government of Pakistan, Lahore. Maps were also supplied to all the primary schools in
the Province.
Sindh
143.   5500 units of dual desks, tables and chairs were supplied to project area schools in Sindh along
with other necessary equipment.
Balochistan
144.   Furniture/equipment was supplied to only 1000 class rooms, while no furniture and other
equipment was supplied to 500 additional class rooms constructed out of the surplus fund (provided as
a result of appreciation of the SDR against Pakistan Rupees).
Research Studies
145.   The following three Research Studies were conducted under the Project by Engineering
Associates Karachi, a renowned consultancy firm:
(a) Role of the Learning Coordinator
(b) Evaluation of the Teacher Training Program
(c) Development of Criteria for minimum acceptable performance in Language and
Mathematics at Grade III and Language, Mathematics and Science at Grades IV and V.



37
146.  In addition, two more research studies were undertaken by individuals, one each by Dr. R.A.
Farooq, Director of Academy of Educational Planning and Management, Islamabad, and the other by Mr.
M.H. Qureshi, a retired Educationist of Islamabad. These research studies are as under:
(d) "Planning for Educational Facilities in less-developed areas of Sindh, Balochistan, NWFP",
Dr. R.A. Farooq;
(e)  "Evaluation of the Learning Modules developed and introduced under the 1I-Primary
Education Project in the Province of Sindh", Mr. M.H. Qureshi.
Audit Reports
147.   Audit on the accounts of the Project in each PIU, including the FCU,  were conducted
individually by their respective Accountants General; audit reports along with the opinion of the Auditor
in the prescribed format, were sent to the World Bank.
Findings
(a)  The use of the prefabricated technology for the construction of additional class rooms was
an impracticable idea floated by the World Bank at the stage when no infrastructure or
experience on the subject existed in Pakistan.
(b)  The cumbersome procedure of international competitive bidding (ICB) and the use of pre-
fabricated technology were the main cause for the delay of construction.
(c)  The concept of Learning Modules (L.M.) was imposed by the World Bank without checking
its feasibility. However, the development and preparation of L.M. gained desirable pace
during the extended period after an uneven start in the initial stage of the Project. Since
the main distribution of L.M.s was done after June, 1992, therefore the impact of L.M.s
in tangible terms was difficult to assess immediately on completion of the Project.
(d)  Regular District supervisory staff generally remained ignorant of the introduction of L.M.s
in the Project schools, which reflects a lack of coordination between the regular system and
Project staff, even with the introduction of the new tier of Learning Coordinators.
(e)  Rivalry developed between the Project staff and regular staff. The regular staff's malicious
attitude towards the activities of the Project adversely affected the performance of PIU.
(f)  Low mobility of female Learning Coordinators was experienced during the Project, due to
a shortage of vehicles and lack of monetary benefits.
(g)  The procurement of furniture through competitive bidding reduced the quality of furniture.
(h)  Frequent transfers of Project staff, especially foreign-trained Project Directors, affected the
momentum of project implementation.
(i)  The project improved the quality education in the schools under its jurisdiction, reduced
teacher/student absenteeism, and institutionalized Project inputs in the system.



38
(j) The project improved teacher class-room performance.
(k) The training of teachers and introduction of Learning Modules improved student
achievement.
(I) The provision of additional class-rooms improved the physical conditions of schools.
(m) The Project inputs improved girls' education in rural areas.
(n)  On account of the non-willingness of the community to provide matching funds for minor
civil works, the costs were provided fully by the Project.
(o) Most of the untrained teachers had been given training based on a modular approach. It is
hoped that the input of Learning Modules will go a long way in improving the standard of
education.
(p) In view of the usefulness of L.C.s in the learning/teaching process, this approach has been
adopted in the mainstream of Primary Education. The introduction of learning coordinators
in the main stream would undoubtedly help improve the standard of education at the
primary stage.
(q) With the construction of the 7700 additional classrooms, more than 0.3 million students
have been provided shelter. It is expected that it would have a positive impact on the
Primary Education of the country.
(r) With the supply of furniture and other accessories to Project area schools where classrooms
under II-PEP program have been constructed, it can be expected that it would have a
positive impact in creating a better educational atmosphere in the schools; as a result,
students will benefit.
(s) The release of funds was inadequate, and delays were also experienced.
(t) Administrative difficulties due to the shortage/transfer of personnel were observed.
(u) Lack of popular participation at community level was observed.
(v) Delays in the acquisition of land and change of sites delayed construction work on some
sites.
(w) Lack of interest and initiative by community leaders was also a problem.
(x) Contractors abandoned the work due to their own inability to carry out the work.
(y) Delays by contractors in starting work ultimately delayed the whole implementation process.
(z) Delays in operationalization of the assignment account delayed the construction work.



39
Recommendations
(i)    New and unexperimented approaches like the use of prefabricated technology may not
be supported, unless the infrastructure is available and it seems highly feasible.
(ii)    The frequent transfers of Project Directors and staff especially those who received
advance training under the Projects may be avoided.
(iii)    Learning Coordinators may be redesignated as the assistant supervisors and their number
may be increased in proportion to the number of schools. The female Learning
Coordinators may be given conveyance allowance.
(iv)    Assistant teachers should be recruited from the local community. Their training program
should be so designed as to add to accreditation and qualification with the consequent
absorption of those recruited into the formal system.
(v)    Ways may be explored to effect an increase in community participation and support for
Primary Education.
(vi)    Disbursement procedures should be streamlined and it should be ensured that amounts
disbursed be transferred to provincial accounts immediately.
(vii)   For procurement through international competitive bidding, the Project Director should
be allowed an independent consignment, to avoid demurrage due to delays by other
Project Directors.
(viii)   Master lists of equipment should be prepared at the beginning of the project.
(ix)    The development of L.M.s made an integral part of the Bureau of Curriculum
Development and Education Extension Centres of the Provinces in consultation with the
Curriculum Wing of Ministry of Education, which should undertake the future
development/improvement of L.M.s on the same pattern as is followed in the
development and production of textbooks.
(x)    The use of Learning Modules should be made obligatory for Primary School teachers.
An effective check may be exercised through Project supervisory staff to ensure the
Primary School teachers are invariably following the modular approach as embodied in
the Learning Modules.
(xi)    Pre-conditions should not be imposed.
(xii)   The estimates should be based after collecting the actual data.
(xiii)   There should be effective coordination between the PIU and other sister agencies.
(xiv)   The implementation of inputs may be started after ensuring availability of matching funds
of the IDA and Provincial share.



40
(xv)   Implementation agencies should be authorized to revise the targets of the Project on the
basis of escalation of cost.
(xvi)   The staff of implementing agencies should not be changed while implementing the
Project.
(xvii)  The staff of the first Project should be continued to retained to the next project, instead
of appointing new personnel.
(xviii)  The period of reimbursement may be shortened to 3 weeks instead of 6 weeks.
(xix)   The Project fund should be made available in time.
(xx)   Implementation of the Project be taken in hand, keeping in view the public sector as well
as the private sector. The ratio of the personnel from the public as well as private sector
be based on the experience and nature of work in Government as well as in private
organizations.
(xxi)   To eliminate delays in the implementation of the Project, it is suggested that instead of
having a fully fledged PIU for the project, there should be a Steering Committee to make
decisions.
(xxii)  Instead of opening more than one account for different inputs, only one account should
be operated by the authority responsible for the implementation of the Project.
(xxiii)  In order to make the qualitative and quantitative assessment of the works/activities of the
Project, there must be annual and biennial reviews at the Provincial headquarters, where
the Project is situated. A PERT chart for each activity assigned to the Project may be
prepared and the Project be monitored accordingly. This will go a long way in
promoting the smooth running and timely implementation of such Projects.



41
Seriatim Comments on Parts I and III of Completion
Report of Primary Education II Project
Para 3:    The contention of the World Bank under Para 3, Part I regarding lack of systematic approach
in collecting, processing and reporting educational statistics, which form the matrix for planning and
budgeting, was not available at Provincial and Federal levels. It is stated that at the Federal level budget
allocations were made on the basis of available statistics which serve as eyes and ears for systematic
planning.
Para 4:    Parents and guardians have recognized the importance of primary education, which proves
instrumental for income earning by their children, especially for girls students; therefore the parents are
willing to send their children especially girls for primary schooling.
Para 8:   It is stated that for the purpose of managerial improvements in primary education, separate
Elementary Education and Primary Education Directorates have been established in the Provinces of
Punjab, NWFP and Balochistan. Also the Primary Education curriculum has been simplified and
enhanced on the basis of community needs.
Para 27:  It is submitted that delay occurred in opening assignment accounts and claiming disbursement,
which was due to the cumbersome procedure of following the assignment account. Also the pre-
fabricated technology was now an unexperimented approach imposed by the World Bank, which
ultimately met with failure. The closing date was extended twice. The Government has already refunded
the entire amount to the World Bank, Washington.'4
Para 29:   The appreciation and fluctuation of SDR: Pakistani exchange rate made it impossible to
calculate in real terms the total expenditure and the total IDA financing compared to original forecasts.
Para 30:   The contract was awarded late due to the delay in completing and fulfilling the bidding
conditionalities laid down by the World Bank. The contractors were also given the grace period to
complete 500 class rooms of first tranche which they could not complete within the period.
The contractors were also given Rs 10.4 million as a mobilization advance. For their
additional financing demand, the contractors were asked to produce a Bank guarantee, which they could
not produce. The contractors miserably failed to fulfill their contractual obligations. Therefore, in the
interest of the project, the contract was terminated and the civil works were entrusted to the Provincial
Governments of NWFP and Balochistan.
Para 33:   Under the project the following number of classrooms have been completed.
14/    Comment by the Association: actually, an amount of $22,790.05 under the Special Accounts for the MOE and
Province of Sindh is still outstanding: the Association has requested that it be promptly refunded to the Credit
Account (see telex to GOP of June 17, 1994 on the cancellation of the Project).



42
Province        Initial Target    Revised Target        Completed
Sindh           3000              3513                  3504
NWFP            2000              2809                  2697 (completed and work on 102
classrooms in progress)
Balochistan     1000              1500                  1500
Para 35:   The Project Implementation Unit of Balochistan demanded 30 more motorcycles. Crown
Agents were contacted to meet the additional demand but they refused. Eventually, PIU Balochistan was
allowed to purchase 30 motorcycles itself.  They also could not succeed in procuring 30 more
motorcycles owing to the non-response to the tenders published in the press.
Paras 35-37:    Staff of National Institute of Psychology was not fully conversant with the concept of
modules and pedagogical skills. Therefore, the sets of modules developed by them were substandard.
Therefore, the job of development of learning modules was entrusted to the Project Implementation Units
of Sindh, NWFP and Balochistan. The cooperation of Federal Coordinating Unit was extended for the
purpose as and when required.
Para 38:   The third cycle of C-level training in Balochistan could not be completed because the
Learning Modules on the integrated concept could not be completed in time. However, the cycle of C-
level training in NWFP and Sindh was completed because they trained teachers in the third cycle also on
the existing curricula.
Paras 39-40:    Mr.L.R. Davis remained as a foreign consultant with PEP-II for two years. In
addition, the services of Dr S.B. Khan and Mrs. Sweeting were also hired as short-term foreign
consultants. The funds allocated for local consultants were diverted towards establishment of Module
Writer Cells in the Provinces.
Para 41:    Five research studies were conducted under PEP-I1. (three by Engineering Associates,
Karachi; and one each by Farooq Ahmed, Director Academy of Educational Planning and Management,
and Mr. M.H. Qureshi.)
Paras 42-47:    Overall 564 Learning Modules on various concepts of class I-V were developed and
adopted. It is unjustifiable at this stage to limit their use, because modules have been/are being used with
certain modifications under Balochistan Primary Education Project and in the provinces of Sindh and
NWFP.
Para 48:    Assistant Teachers were required to be appointed to overcome the shortage of primary
school teachers, especially females. There was a shortage of female primary school teachers only in
Balochistan, which employed assistant teachers with low qualifications but in the remaining two provinces
adequately qualified primary school teachers were available and appointed.
Para 50:   Community support was not forthcoming to supplement the efforts of the Government to
construct boundary walls and rehabilitation of classrooms because the community was not involved in
such exercises prior to the execution of the Project.



43
Para 51:    The tier of Learning Coordinator was integrated in the mainstream of education system and
the staff of the PIUs including FCU was absorbed.
Para 53:    Outside agencies were involved in research and evaluation in order to get unbiased and
realistic results.
Para 55:    The Ministry does not agree with the contention of Bank staff that Federal field
implementors proved unable to monitor and evaluate its outcomes. It is emphasized and clarified that
during the project period, FCU held regular periodic review meetings with the PIUs to gauge the progress
of implementation of various inputs of the project as envisaged; where there were bottlenecks or
impediments, remedial measures were suggested/taken in time to overcome them.
Para 65:    The requisite staff to man the FCU could not be appointed due to the imposition of a ban
on recruitment by the Government.
I.Comments on Part III are in Annex I.



44
Annex I
Expenditure Statement
(Rs. Million)
Province                         IDA        Local            Total
Sindh                        457.996      199.136          657.132
NWFP                         389.059       88.695          477.754
Balochistan                   334.139      52.750          386.889
FCU                            17.355       5.215           22.570
Total                        1198.549     345.796         1544.345
Total Project Cost                =       Rs. 1168.525 Million
Total Expenditure                 =       Rs. 1544.345 Million
Percentage Utilization            =       132%
Percentage Disbursement           =       77.9%
N.B.  The excess amount was utilized by increasing the number of additional classrooms from 6000 to
7813 (7700 actually constructed), out of the surplus funds accumulated due to appreciation of
SDR versus Pak. Rupees.



45
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1602-PAK'
PART III: STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Table 3.1
RELATED IDA CREDIT
Credit Number                                  Purpose                                 Yr of Approval
Project Title                                                                          Status
Cr. 678-PAK       Increase the supply of qualified primary and middle level teachers,  1977
Third Education    particularly for females and rural areas, through supporting new and  Closed 12/87.
Project           existing teacher training institutes, an experiment program in adult
literacy, and a study of supply of & demand for female primary teachers.
Cr. 892-PAK       Ascertain effects of four inputs-improved teacher training, increase  1979
Primary           supervision, better instructional materials and better physical facilities-on    Effective 10/79.
Education         access to schooling, dropout rates, learning achievement, and recurrent  Closed 6/85.
Project           costs in four provinces.
Cr. 1821-PAK      Primarily for Punjab. Introduce education policy reform, strengthen  1987
Third Primary     institutional capacity in management and implementation, build and   Effective 4/88.
Education         improve schools to increase access, especially for girls, and support  Currently under
Project           financing of materials and innovations in teacher recruitment, training and   implementation.
deployment.
Cr. 2102-PAK      For Sindh. Enhance access to and delivery of primary education and   1990
Sindh Primary     improve the students' achievements through classroom constructions,  Effective 11/90.
Education         enhanced teacher recruitment (especially for female teachers), training for    Currently under
Project           teachers and managers, scholarships and textbooks provided for girls, etc.   implementation.
Cr. 2354          For Punjab. Implement restructuring of education into elementary (years    1992
Punjab Middle     1-8) and secondary (years 9-12); increase access particularly for girls;  Effective on 3/93
Schooling         improve quality and efficiency of education; support decentralization and  currently under
Project           expansion of private education.                                      implementation
Cr. 2482-PAK      For Balochistan. Increase access, equity and efficiency, enhance quality  1993
Balochistan       of the learning environment, and improve the organizational framework,  Effective 7/93.
Primary Educ      planning and management through beneficiary participation, new schools  Currently under
Project           & scholarships for girls, teacher training, new management system, etc.  implementation.



46
Table 3.2
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Planned               Revised         Actual
Stage          Dec. 19832    May/Sept. 1985    Dec 1990
Project Brief                                           -           12/31/83
Preparation          1/84-4/84                          -            7_8/94b
Appraisal Mission      7/84              -              -           11-12/84C
Credit Negotiation     12/84            -               -             4/85
Board Approval         3/85             -               -            6/6/85
Credit Signature         -               -              -           9/30/85
Credit                 7/85            9/85d            -           1/17/86
Effectiveness
Credit Closing           -             3/91c          3/92          3/31/93
Notes:
a Planned dates stated in the project brief.
b Date of pre-appraisal mission.
Date of appraisal mission.
d Planned date from Memorandum of the President.
I Planned date from Credit Agreement.



47
Table 3.3
CREDIT DISBURSEMENP
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (in million US dollars)
IDA Fiscal Year           Disbursement in million US$
Actual as %
(by semester)         SAR Estimate        Actual        of Estimate
FY 1986            1st                 0.79              0.00         0.0
2nd                  3.19             3.54        111.0
FY 1987            1st                 7.44              3.54         47.6
2nd                 13.68             3.67         26.8
FY 1988            1st                21.37              5.93         27.7
2nd                29.38              7.59         25.8
FY 1989            1st                37.09              8.72        23.5
2nd                43.52             11.19         25.7
FY 1990            1st                48.66             12.33        25.3
2nd                52.50             16.27         31.0
FY 1991            1st                52.50             20.25        38.6
2nd                52.50             26.26         50.0
FY 1992            1st                52.50             32.73         62.3
2nd                52.50             40.21         76.6
FY 1993            1st                52.50             48.10         91.6
2nd*                52.50            56.27        107.2
* Disbursement up to 3/31/93 (closing date).
a Based on the World Bank's disbursement record. The numbers are not final and subject
to change due to incomplete adjustment for special accounts.



48
Table 3.4
Figure 1
Cummulative Credit Disbursement
60-
C:
$ o                            .                               -----        -u- - -  -u.  ..   .  ..   .  
0                                                                  ......
3    0 - .     ....................... :o_    ......... ........ ..............   ..... .. ....... ... ..... ..
1966   1w-87   19                 1969   190    19bl   199    1993   1994
IDA Fiscal Ye.ar
| --'-- Appraisal estimate          m    Actuial|



49
Table 3.5a
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTa
Estimated Costs
Component                             (Appraisal 1984)                        Final Costs'
Local      Foreign      Total       Local       Foreign        Total
A. District School Support      _ __                                                                    ?
Sindh Province                  16.46        9.63       26.09                                       ?
NWFP Province                    9.61        6.08       15.69                                       ?
Balochistan Province             5.24        3.20        8.44                                       ?
B. Provincial Project Mgmt            0.93       0.05        0.99                                       ?
C. Federal Coordination               1.00        1.12       2.12                                       ?
Total Baseline Costs              33.24       20.08    53.32                                          ?
Physical Contingencies             3.32        2.01        5.33                                       ?
Price Contingencies                8.77        5.61       14.38                                       ?
Total Project Costsc              45.34       2769        73.03
a Information based on Background Paper "Notes on Tables 3.5a and 3.5b: Project costs
and Financing of Second Primary Education Project (PEP II)".
b Not enough information is available to construct actual costs by the specified breakdown.
c Totals may not add up due to rounding.



50
Table 3.5b
PROJECT FINANCING BY CATEGORYa
Planned Financing
(Appraisal 1984)
(in nominal US$ million)
Category                      Ministry    Govt of     Govt of      Govt of     Govt
of Educ     Sindh       NWFP       Balochista    Total    IDA        Total
n
1. Civil works and building        0.00        1.54         1.02         0.51      3.07    28.46      31.54
components
2. Equipment, furniture, and      0.003        0.53         0.34         0.18      1.03      3.68      4.71
vehicles
3. Professional services,          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00      0.00      3.75      3.75
technical assistance and studies
4. Educational materials and      0.003        1.41         0.80         0.29      2.50      3.74      6.24
training
5. Staff salaries, allowances,     0.57        6.42         3.77         2.28     13.04     7.12      20.16
and other operating costs.
6. Unallocated                     0.03        0.45         0.27         0.15      0.90     5.74       6.64
Total Project Cost'              0.60       10.34        6.19         3.40     20.54     52.50     73.03
a See Background Paper "Notes on Tables 3.5a and 3.5b..." IBID.
b Totals may not add up due to rounding.



51
Table 3.6
PROJECT FINANCING BY CATEGORYa
Actual Financing (GUESSTIMATES)b
l_________   _________     (in  nominal US$  million)                       l
Category                   Ministry    Govt of    Govt of     Govt of    Govt Total
of Educ     Sindh      NWFP       Balochista               IDA    Total
n
1. Civil works and building  high 0.99   high 9.94   high 10.06    high 5.45    high 26.44      66.09
components                                                                              39.66
low 0.08  low 0.78   low  0.79   low 0.43   low  2.09               41.74
2. Equipment, furniture, and    high 0.15   high 0.93    high 0.38    high 0.37    high 1.83     4.58
vehicles                                                                                 2.75
low 0.00  low 0.00   low 0.00   low 0.00   low  0.00                 2.75
3. Professional services,       0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00    3.93    3.93
technical assistance & studies
4. Educational materials and    0.03       0.17        0.08         0.11         0.39    0.59     0.9
training                                                                                            8
S. Staff salaries, allowances,   high 1.85   high 1.84    high 0.98    high 0.96    high 5.63   14.08
and other operating costs.                                                               8.45
low 0.69  low 0.69   low 0.37   low 0.36   low  2.11                10.56
6. Special account adjustment     --         --          --           --           --   0.21    0.21
High Estimate         3.02      12.87        11.51        6.89        34.29           89.87
Total'                                                                                55.57
Low Estimate          0.80       1.64         1.25        0.90         4.59           60.16
a For calculations, see Background Paper "Notes on Tables 3.5a and 3.5b" IBID.
b Guesstimates based on the actual disbursement information.
c Total may not add up due to rounding.



52
Table 3.7
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Source of    Conditions
Description of Covenant      | Covenant 1!      Met    I                  Discussion
Maintain and strengthen the FCU,      Sect. 3.05        x       Project Director has been appointed.
appoint a Project Director and other   of Credit
staff by Sept 30, 1987.               Agreement.
(a) Ensure that specification and    Sect. 3.06(a)      x       327 modules have been developed and
prototype of the LMs will be           of Credit                approved.
developed in a manner satisfactory to  Agreement.
the Association by Oct. 15, 1987.
(b) In consultation with the Provinces,   Sect.3.06(b)  x       Field tests have been completed.
develop Learning Modules by March      of Credit
31, 1988, according to guidelines,    Agreement.
work program and schedule
satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Prepare and furnish to IDA a     Sect. 3.06(c)      x       A revised schedule incorporating additional
detailed schedule and syllabus for     of Credit                training has been prepared and reviewed by the
in-service courses, and thereafter use  Agreement.              Bank mission in June 1990.
LMs for in-service courses.
Selection of schools for improvements    Sect. 3.07     x       The guidelines have been observed, but minor,
to be in accordance with guidelines.   of Credit                acceptable changes have been made to the
Agreement.                guidelines because of experience
l ________________________________                               gained  during  implementation.
(a) Ensure that implementation of    Sect. 3.08(a)      x       Having been observed, but note observations
tranche proposals for each of the      of Credit                under Sections 3.07 and 3.08 (c).
provinces are prepared in accordance    Agreement.
with the guidelines.                                                                                        l
(b) Not later than three months from  Sect.3.08(b)      x       Done, but the tranche concept has subsequently
Effectiveness, furnish the second      of Credit                been abolished as being not viable.
tranche proposal for the Province.    Agreement.
(c) By August 31, 1987, furnish to   Sect. 3.08(c)      x       Because of implementation delays and
IDA the Third through Fifth tranche    of Credit                difficulties in introducing annual changes in the
proposals in accordance with a        Agreement.                building program, IDA agreed to abandon the
schedule.                                                       tranche concept in favor of a comprehensive
construction program for the remainder of the
implementation period.
1/ Includes only those conditions most important to the success of the project.



53
Table 3.7 (Continued)
STATUS OF COVENANTS
|  Source of  [ Conditions
Description of Covenant        Covenant 1/      Met                       Discussion
Have accounts audited annually        Sect.4.01(b)     yes      Annual audit reports which are due up to
of Credit                March 31, 1993 have been received by the
l __________________________________   Agreement.                IDA .
Furnish to IDA annual reports on     Sect.4.01(b)      yes      Comprehensive progress reports have been
project accounts by September 30       of Credit                sent to the Association.
each year.                            Agreement.
l Provide sufficient operations and   Sect. 4.02       yes      Operations and Maintenance funds have been
maintenance funds under the project.   of Credit                provided.
Agreement.



54
Table 3.8a
USE OF BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUT
Staff Weeks
IDA Fiscal                        Stage of Project Cycle
Year
Identification to    Appraisal to                Supervision &       Total
appraisal      negotiations    Negotiations    annual review
Pre 1982                4.3                                                             4.3
1982                    0.6                                                             0.6
1983                    0.4                                                             0.4
1984                   10.9                                                            10.9
1985                   46.1            20.9             8.4             1.2            76.6
1986                                                                   19.8            19.8
1987                                                                   19.3            19.3
1988                                                                   14.0            14.0
1989                                                                   14.0            14.0
1990                                                                   16.1            16.1
1991                                                                   15.1            15.1
1992                                                                    9.7             9.7
1993                                                                   13.1            13.1
1994                                                                    1.5             1.5
Total                  62.3            20.9             8.4           123.8           215.4



55
Table 3.8b
USE OF BANK RESOURCES: BANK MISSIONS
Identification through Effectiveness
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/Year    No. of   Estimated    Specializations represented
persons   staff days
Through Appraisal
Identification                 6/83       1          6        EC
Pre-Appraisal Mission        7-8/84      6          150       ED, ED, EC, EC, EP, PA
Appraisal Mission             11/84       3          30      ED, A, EC
Appraisal through Board Approval
4-5/85      1          14       ED
Board Approval through Effectiveness
7-8/85      2          24       ED, PA
Number of Staff Days was estimated from mission terms of reference. aide-memoires, back-to-
office reports and/or supervision reports.
Specializations: ED=education specialist; PA=Project Adviser; A=Architect; Sr.A=Senior
Architect:
D=Disbursement Officer; EP=Education Planner: EC=Economist; I=lmplementation Specialist;
Sr.I=Senior Implementation Specialist: R=Researcher: TE=Technical Educator.



56
Table 3.8c
USE OF BANK RESOURCES: BANK MISSIONS
Supervision through Project Completion
No. of   Estimated    Specializations represented  Overall  Implementation Problems
Date         persons   staff days                                 Status
Supervision Missions
1       1-2/86      1          11       ED                              2      M, I
3       5-6/87      2          26       TE. PA                          2       M, I
4         6/87      1          22       A                               2       M, I
5         1/88      6         144       ED. ED, EC EA, Sr.A. PA         2       M. I
6      9-10/88      4         100       ED. EC, Sr.A, PA                2      M, I
7       5-6/89      3          81       A, EP, ED                       2       M, I
8     11-12/89      4          80       ED, EP, PA. A                   3       0, C, M, F, P, T, TA, S,
9       5-6/90      4          68       PA, EP, Sr.A, A                 3       0, C, M, P, T, TA, S
10    10-11/90      3          30       ED, PA, 1                       3       O, C, M, P, T. S
11        5/91      4          48       ED, EC, Srl, PA                 2       O. C, M, P, T, S
12    10-11/91      5          95       ED, 1. PA, D, D                 2       O, C, M, TA, S
13      6-7/92      4          52       ED. PA, R, A                    2       O.C,M, TA, S
Final Supervision & Project Completion
14      1-2/93      2          28       ED, A                           2       O,C,M,TA.S
Number of Staff Days was estimated from mission terms of reference, aide-memoires, back-to-office reports and/or
supervision reports.
Specializations: ED=education specialist; PA=Project Adviser; A=Architect; Sr.A=Senior Architect;
D=Disbursement Officer; EP=Education Planner; EC=Economist; I=Implementation Specialist; Sr.I=Senior
Implementation Specialist; R=Researcher: TE=Technical Educator.
Overall Status: I =No or minor problems; 2=some problems, 3=niajor problems
Implementation Problems report the areas of project implementation reported on the Supervision Summary (Form 590)
as moderate or major problems.
Keys to the area of implementation:
Until 1989      F=Fund Availability; M=Project Management: I=Development Impact.
Since 1990      O=Project Development Objectives; C=Compliance with Legal Covenants; M=Project
Management Performance; F=Fund Availability; P=Project Progress; T=Training Progress;
TA=Technical Assistance Progress; S=Studies Progress.
m:\pak\pat26\complet2.pcr



IBRD 18616
64'                                          68'                                           72'         /                 -
PAKISTAN
-36                                                                                                                                            /
SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                       A                                          3
(    K-
Project Districts                                                                                                          L
I_Appios/imaie L ~ie
o          Principal Towns                                                                                                  of Control
@          National Capital                                                             K                                     .
Main Roads                                                                C)                                          JAMMU
-t---H-i-- |   Railways                                                                                                      ......    AND
Rivers                                                      S                  -                        I            KASHMIR
District Boundaries                                            '                                    I \r\  \
Division Boundaries                                                                 ,<            .
Provincial Boundaries                                   !'
International Boundaries
j  ;ahorF
AFGHANISTAN    Ft
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
-28"                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
ISLAMIC  j                                                   (                                                                             ./ jI
REPUBLIC j,,                                                                                        '.*
OF                                                                                                      r/
IRAN
.         0 t   i   ' / t   ;      100  200      300          4CC0
~~~'~                                      ~    ~     ~ I- {t_/_/_I_I_ J
v '  - -   /   g   ,   I       KILOMEI ERS
)                   M  i 1.    -                     Bela
This rap has been prepared by
The World Bank s s/aff eclusiely
)                      .9 ,*7    r                                                      fi  ,   or the cornven,e,ce o0 the
yderabad                                     ledes r.  se.cf.sive/y to, the
\    5/1r   <   Hyderabad   9              riternal se of The World  ansk
K                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~anld the Ifternat,onal F,nance
Corporation  The denom,nat,ons
Karachi                                                                       used and the boundaries shown
24'                                                                                                                                             on th,s map do nol reply. on the
part o/ The World dank and the
*       i_ .........             Internahonal Fnance Corporal/on.   24
any judgment on the legal status
of any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries
614                                                     6A                                                                                         9
JANUARY 1985









IMAGING
Report No:      14218
Type: PCR



