RP CCREDIT NUMBER 1602 PAK
Project Agreement
(Second Primary Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
and
PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
Dated                                , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1602 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT     SOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and PROVINCES OF SIND, BALUCHISTAN and the NORTH
WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE through their Governors (hereinafter
collectively called the Provinces).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-three million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 53,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Provinces  agree   to  undertake  such   obligations  toward   the
Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Assibciation's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context shall otherwise require,
the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Provinces declare their commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and educational practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the employment of consultants in carrying out the Project shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Provinces shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
AgreOment.
Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) The Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by the Provinces of their
respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Provinces shall: (a) maintain and streng-
then in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) established under the Primary Educa-
tion Project (Credit No. 892 PAK); and (b) to this end, ensure
that a Director at each of the Project Implementation Unit of the
Provinces and other staff required for carrying out the Project
including the staff specified in the Schedule to this Agreement
will be duly appointed.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Provinces shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition in respect of
the Project.


﻿-3-
(b) The Provinces shall:
(i) have their accounts and financial statements (ba-
lance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Sub-Accounts
related to the Project for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of
said financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Provinces shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the ahnual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in re,pect of such separate accounts, a separate


﻿-4-
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If   the  Development  Credit Agreement terminates    in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have


﻿-5-
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Sind:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi, Pakistan
For Baluchistan:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Baluchistan
Quetta, Pakistan
Cable address:                    Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                       7875 BLNSE PK
Quetta, Pakistan


﻿-6-
For NWFP:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Peshawar, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the respective Province may be taken
or executed by its Additional Chief Secretary (Development),
Planning and Development Department, or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By           p'-dh
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF SIND
Authorized Representative
PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Post                                     No.    Basic Scale
Project Director                          1         19
Deputies                                 2          18
(Administration,
Field Operations)
Associates                               3          17
(Training, Evaluation,
Data Management)
Planning Officers                        2         17
Accounts Officer                         1         17
Professional                             4          16
Assistants


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
S7
198-,
FORSECRETARY


