Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11889
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT FOR NORTH AND CENTER-WEST REGIONS
(LOAN 2412-BR)
MAY 19, 1993
Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Latin America & The Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Abbreviations and Acronyns
CEDATE         Centro de Desenvolvimento e Apoio T6cnico I Educaclo
(Center for Development and Technical Assistance to Education)
CIP            Coordenagio de Informagoes para o Planejamento
(Coordination of Information for Planning)
CNPQ           Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientffico e Tecnoldgico
(National Science and Technology Council)
COEPE          Coordenaria de Ensino de Primeiro Grau
(Coordinating Unit for Primary Education)
CPS            Coordenagao de Planejamento Setorial
(Coordinatioul for Sectoral Planning)
FAE            Funda$ao de Assistencia ao Estudante
(Foundation for Student Assistance)
FNDE           Fundo Nacional para o Desenvolvimento da Educasio
(National Education Development Fund)
INEP           Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais
(National Institute for Educational Studies and Research)
IRHJP          Instituto de Recursos Humanos Jolo Pinheiro
(Joao Pinheiro Institute for Human Resources)
MEC            Ministerio da Educagio
(Ministry of Education)
PMT            Project Management Team
PNAD           Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicflios
National Household Sample Survey
SAEB           Sistema de AvaliaWao do Ensino Basico
(Basic Education Evaluation System)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEC            Secretaria Estadual de EducaWao
(State Education Secretariat)
SENEB          Secretaria Nacional de EducaSao Basica
(National Secretariat of Basic Education)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SEPS          Secretaria do Ensino de Primeiro e Segundo Graus
(Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education)
UNDP          United Nations Development Program



FOR OFCLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Offlo, of D1hict-Genwal
Operation Evaluation
May 19, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Urban Basic Education Project for North and Center-West Regions
(Loan 2412-BR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Brazil - Urban Basic Education
Project for North and Center-West Regions (Loan 2412-BR) prepared by the Latin America and
the Canbbean Regional Office. The Borrower did not submit Part IL The Report is of
satisfactory quality.
The project aimed to inprove the quality and efficiency of basic education (Grades
1-4), expand access, and strengthen the sectoral management capacity in nine states in Brazil's
deprived northern and center-west regions, through building new classrooms, refurbishing existing
facilities, providing instructional materials, and training teachers and administrators. The Report
provides a candid assessment of project results.
The project outcome may be considered satisfactory. The project enhanced physical
facilities and software inputs, with the latter exceeding, and the former falling short of, appraisal
estimates. Institutional objectives pertaining to improved sectoral management were partially
realized. Lack of assurance of regular budgetary support for instructional materials and
institutional development makes sustainability uncertain.
The project will be audited as the first sector loan for basic education in BraziL
Attachment
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by redpients oAly in the performance of their omcial dutie.
Its conteUts may not othermwi be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Table of Contents
Preface  ....................................................
Evaluation Sununary  . .............................................  i
Part . Project Review from the Bank's Perspective  ...................... 1
A. Project Identity   .       .........................................   1
B. Project Background  .            .......................................   1
C. Project Objectives and Scope ..........                      ........................  2
Objectives . ..........................................   2
Scope .............................................. 3
D. Project Description and Organization  .............................  3
Description  .       .........................................   3
Organization .......................................... 5
E.  Project Implementation .            .....................................  6
Complexity of Project Design and 'Sector Loan' Approach  ....                       ........  6
nstitutional Shortcomings  ..........                    .......................  8
Inadequacy of Supervision    ................................  9
Political Considerations   ...........                  .......................  9
Financing and Procurement Difficulties ......................... 10
F. Project Results .1..........................................  1
G. Project Risk Assessment ............                       ........................   13
H. Project Sustainability  .           .....................................   13
I. Bank Performance . ....................................... 14
J. Borrower Performance . ..................................... 14
K. Findings and Lessons . ..................................... 15
Part H. Project Review  from  the Borrower's Perspective  ..................   17
[There has been no response from the Government.]
Part m.  Statistical Information ..........   ..................................  18
A. Related Bank Loans ........................................  8
B. Project Timetable  .           .......................................   20
C. Loan Disbursements  .               .....................................   21
D. Project Implementation . ..................................... 22
E.  Project Costs and Financing   .................................   23
F.  Project Results .       .........................................   25
G. Status of Legal Covenants ...........                      ........................   26
H. Use of Bank Resources   ............                       ........................   30
I.  Studies ...............................................  33
Evaluation Studies by the JoAo Pinheiro Foundation  ................  34
Studies in Support of Educational Planning ......................  33
Support for the Development of Educational Experiences ....                      .........  33
Micro-planning and Mapping Manuals  ........................   34
System  of Evaluation of Public Elementary School Education  ....                    ......  34



Tables
1  EBRD Loam Relevant to the Project         8............................  I
2  Project Timetable .......................................  20
3  Cumulative Estimated and Actua Disbursements ......... ............  21
4  Project Implementation Indicators .............. ................  22
5  Project Costs .......................................  23
6  Project Financing .......................................  24
7  Direct Benefits .......................................  25
8  Status of Legal Covenants, June 1991  ............ ...............  26
9 Staff Inputs               ......................... 30
10 Missions  ................... ....................  31



Project Completion Report
Brazil
Urban Basic Education Project
for North and Center-West Regions
(Loan 2412-BR)
Preface
1.   This Project Completion Report (PCR) is for the Urban Basic Education Project in North and
Center-West Brazil (Loan No. 2412-BR), which was approved on May 15, 1984 in the amount of
US$40 million. The amount of the loan disbursed totalled US$30,573,085, with the final
disbursement in July 1991. At the Borrower's request, US$7.0 million of the loan was canceled in
1990. The revised Closing Date was February 28, 1991, one year after the original Closing Date.
The accounts were closed on July 17, 1991, when the undisbursed balance of US$2.427 million was
canceled. Exchange losses resulting from increasing inflation cost the project $17 million.
2.   This PCR, prepared by the Human Resources Division of the Brazil, Peru and Venezuela
Department, Latin America and the Caribbean Region, was based on project documents and Bank's
files, as well as on United Nations Development Program (UNDP) report files for Project BRA-86-
002, discussions with members of the program management teams and other staff at the Brazilian
Ministry of Education (MEC), on-site visits to six of the nine states where the project was
implemented, and meetings with Bank staff.
3.   The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and m with the request to prepare Part II by June 30,
1992. There has been no response from the Borrower.






ii
Project Completion Report
Brazil
Urban Basic Education Project
for North and Center-West Regions
(Loan 2412-BR)
Evaluation Summary
A. Introduction
1. The Monhangara Project was the sixth Bank-assisted education project and the first sector
loan for basic education in Brazil. The general objective of the Project was to improve the
quality, coverage, and efficiency of basic education in grades 1-4 in all states of the North
and Center-West regions. Its implementation area included 25 selected municipalities in the
nine states. The project was appraised in April 1984 and was approved in May 1984. Total
costs were estimated at US$80.0 million, of which US$40.0 million was to be financed by an
IBRD sector loan (see Part III, Table 6). Exchange losses resulting from increasing inflation
cost the project $17,288,769.73 (Part I, para. 48). The project required six years and four
months for implementation-16 months longer than the original estimate. At the Borrower's
request, US$7.0 million of the loan was canceled in 1990 (Part I, para. 17). The revised
Closing Date was February 28, 1991, one year after the original Closing Date. The accounts
were closed on July 17, 1991, when the undisbursed balance of US$2.427 million was
canceled (Part III, Table 6).
B. Objectives and Project Content
2. The Project sought to address directly sectoral policy issues by means of a policy-based
loan that specifically linked disbursements to progress towards attainment of three major
policy objectives, as follows:
(i) improvement in the guality and efficiency of existing primary schools (grades 141,
which would be assisted by Project financing of:
(a) educational materials, including textbooks, supplies and library books;
(b) training for teachers (grades 1-4), school supervisors, directors and cooks;
(c) refurbishing of existing school facilities in disrepair;
(d) construction of new classrooms and schools to absorb "excess" students in
existing schools; and
(e) provision of furniture and equipment as needed for existing and new facilities.



liii
(ii) increase in the access to basic education for children in grades 1-4, which would be
assisted by Project financing of the ciiitruction of new school facilities; and
(iii)iipovement of sectoral management capacity, which would be assisted by Project
financing of relevant training and/or seminars directed towards:
(a) long-term planning at the federal and state levels;
(b) special projects for improving the quality and efficiency of basic education;
(c) school location planning for the siting of new schools;
(d) strengthening of state and municipal administrative capacity; and
(e) project monitoring and evaluation.
3. This linkage between sectoral reform and disbursements against investments was to be
promoted by means of a 'six-step" investment review process (part I, para. 6), which was
developed through discussions with the Borrower through refinement of the existing Project
cycle. In essence, this revised investment process sought to encourage: (i) a detailed
municipal-level "school mapping" and "micro-planning" exercise, which would assess local
needs in the first instance; (ii) compilation from these assessments of state-level sectors
investment plans; and (iii) provision of appropriate technical assistance from State Education
Secretariats and designated federal "specialized agencies".
C. Implementation
4. Project implementation was relatively slow. Implementation of the Project was impeded
by: (i) complexity of the Project design and sector loan approach, including an unrealistic
assessment of time required; (ii) failure of planned Project institutional development activities
to overcome serious state and municipal capacity shortcomings; (iii) inadequacy of
supervision by the Bank, particularly at the state level; (iv) inadequacy of supervision by
federal and state authorities of lower-level Project activities; (v) inadequacy of commitment
by political authorities to Project objectives; and (vi) financing difficulties, including the
periodic lack of counterpart funding and major foriegn exchange losses as a result of
persistent high inflation (Part I, paras. 13 to 33).
D. poject Results
5. The Project represented a significant sector investment in the relatively neglected North
and Center-West regions of Brazil. The Project was successful in: (i) improving the
provision of educational inputs, such as school facilities, teaching materials, trained teachers,
student textbooks, and other learning materials; (ii) refurbishing a total of 218 schools and
construction of 58 new schools; (iii) procuring over 2 million textbooks and educational
packets; and (iv) providing training for over 37,400 teachers, principals, technicians, and
support staff (Part I, para. 34). These achievements exceeded appraisal estimates for
educational materials, but provisions for physical plant (refurbishing and construction) and



iv
for human resource development (training and institutional development) fell short of
expectations (see Part m, Table 4). Institutional development objectives were only partially
realized, in part because such objectives require a longer time frame for their fruition. A
major shortcoming of Project design was the inadequate monitoring and evaluation of
qualitative and quantitative indicators of Project performance (Part I, paras. 36 and 37).
E. Sustainability
6. Strong demand evidenced for basic education in the Project area (Part I, para. 19) should
encourage authorities to sustain the operation of Project-assisted facilities (Part I, para. 42).
However, while some of the Project's institutional development activities (in particular, the
school mapping and "micro-planning" exercise and preliminary development of a national
system of evaluation) have gained some measure of acceptance, the long-term sustainability
of these practices is difficult to predict (Part I, paras. 34 to 39).
F. Findings and Lessons
7. Major findings and lessons are as follows:
(a) While concern for sectoral policy and management issues is fully appropriate in the
education sector, efforts must be made to ensure that: (i) objectives are well-defined and
attainable; (ii) activities to be supported are limited to a manageable level; and (iii)
institutional development activities must be given sufficient priority, to ensure that
Project participants can carry out required responsibilities. In essence, the desire for
"comprehensiveness" of approach must not override the viability and development
impact of the Project, over which the Borrower must retain essential ownership.
(b) The phasing of Projects with many activities must be based on a realistic timetable, to
ensure essential coordination and maximum impact of programmed Project inputs and
activities.
(c) Sustained efforts should be made to ensure that key political leaders maintain active
political support, and essential technical knowledge, of major Project objectives and
activities.
(d) In light of: (i) the significant responsibilities and widely differing capacities of Brazilian
state governments and (ii) the growing implementation reponsibilities of municfpios, the
Bank should take measures during project design and during project preparation to
ensure that adequate attention is devoted to involving and strengthening both levels of
administration, including the development of appropriate reporting mechanisms.
(e) The number of participating Government agencies should be kept to a manageable level,
with clearly defined mechanisms for reporting and continued coordination.



v
(f) Government interest in Project implementation may be easier to sustain in the long term
when activities are relatively concentrated in a smaller area, rather than diluted' over a
broader area.
(g) Appropriate mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation and
benefits should be discussed and agreed upon during the Project preparation period,
including a limited set of readily monitorable indicators. Similarly, data bases should be
compiled throughout the Project implementation, and should be used to provide feedback
at the national, state, and local levels.
(h) Bank supervision missions should not only occur with greater frequency, but should
make greater efforts to assess first-hand developments at the state and municipal-level, if
applicable.
(i) Both the Bank and the Borrower should try to reduce the frequent turnover of top project
managers, which generally serves to compromise the effectiveness of Project
coordination and implementation.
(j) Special care should have been given to ensuring that administrative, financial and
budgetary systems are as responsive and flexible as possible, especially in their ability to
counteract the effects of inflation. In a highly inflationary environment, the Borrower
must make every effort to reduce to a minimum the delays in expenditure, certification,
and reimbursement. In addition, provision should be made for the prompt
reimbursement of eligible expenditures (especially at the state level) not contracted in
accordance with the original project specifications.



Project Completion Report
Brazil
Urban Basic Education Project
for North and Center-West Regions
(Loan 2412-BR)
Part I. Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
A.   Project Identity
Project Name:   North and Center-West Urban Basic Education Project
Loan Number:  2412-BR
Region:        Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)
Department:    LAI
Country:       Brazil
Division:      Population and Human Resources
Sector:        Education
Subsector:     Basic Education
B. Proiect Backgrond
1.   The Urban Basic Education Project in North and Center-West Brazil (US$ 40.0 million), also
known as the Monhangara Project, was approved by the Board on May 17, 1984. The Project
represented the Bank's sixth loan to the education sector in Brazil, the second' sector loan for
education in Brazil and the first sector loan for Brazilian basic education.
2.   Decision to adopt the sector loan approach was encouraged by the coincidence of the sectoral
reform of the Government's Third Education Sector Plan (1980-85) with evolving Bank sector work
that recommended greater attention to policy decisions affecting sectoral equity, efficiency and
effectiveness. The Third Education Sector Plan, which had been initially prepared by the Secretariat
of Primary and Secondary Education (SEPS) and which sought to make transfers from the Ministry of
Education (MEC) more conditional upon compliance of individual state investment priorities and plans
with defined national benchmarks, specifically espoused the following objectives:
The first education sector loan to Brazil, the Tochnician Training Subproject (Loan No. 2366-BR), was
approved by the Board on Decomber 3, 1983 in the amount of SUS 20 million.



(i) targeting of basic education resources to the most needy sectors of society (i.e., the urban
poor and the rural population in economically deprived regions of the country) so as to
reduce regional and social disparities;
(ii) improvement of the quality and efficiency of basic education for these deprived sectors;
(iii) expansion of access to basic education for the targeted groups; and
(iv) strengthening of subsector management through sectoral planning and technical-
administrative modernization at federal, state and municipal levels.
3.    Bank sector work between 1980 and 1983, by increasing the focus devoted to overall sectoral
policy and institutional capacity issues, prepared the way for extension to the education sector of the
then-innovative sector loan approach being implemented elsewhere in the Bank. A subsector
memorandum issued in August 1983 demonstrated the increasing policy emphasis of Bank education
sector support activity in its identification of the following as the major constraints to the
improvement of basic education in Brazil:
(i) the low quality and internal efficiency of the initial four grades of primary school;
(ii) lack of access to primary school for Brazilian children aged 7 to 14 years of age;
(iii) the managerial weakness of the massive educational network spanning the country; and
(iv) lack and/or irregularity of funding for both capital and recurrent costs associated with
primary schooling.
C. Project Objectives and Scope
4.    Obiectives. The Monhangara Project sought to address directly the aforementioned sectoral
policy issues by means of a policy-based loan that specifically linked disbursements to progress
towards attainment of three major policy objectives, as follows:
(i) improvement in the quality and efficiency of existing priary schools (grades 1-4), which
would be assisted by Project financing of:
(a) educational materials, including textbooks; student, teacher and classroom supplies;
and library books;
(b) training for teachers (grades 1-4), school supervisors, directors and cooks;
(c) refurbishing of existing school faciities in disrepair;
(d) construction of new classrooms and schools to absorb 'excess' students in existing
schools; and
(e) provision of furniture and equipment as needed for existing and new facilities.
(ii) increase in the access to basic education for children in grades 1-4, which would be
assisted by Project financing of the construction of new school facilities; and
(iii)improvement of sectoral management capacity, which would be assisted by Project



financing of relevant training and/or seminars directed towards:
(a) long-term planning at the federal and state levels;
(b) special projects for improving the quality and efficiency of basic education;
(c) school location planning for the siting of new schools;
(d) strengthening of state and municipal administrative capacity; and
(e) project monitoring and evaluation.
5.    Scp. In light of its innovative nature, it was decided that the Monhangara Project would
initially be limited to urban areas of 25 municfpios in nine states2 in the relatively deprived Northern
and Center-West regions of Brazil. Project-assisted municfpios were selected on the basis of a
ranking process that reviewed: (i) repetition in grades 1 and 2; (ii) dropout in grades 1 through 4; (iii)
intensity in the use of existing school space; (iv) enrollment rates for the population aged 7 through
14; (v) urbanization; and (vi) population growth rate between 1970 and 1980.
D.   EPiect Description and Organization.
6.    DescriDin. The Monhangara Project represented a very ambitious attempt to link Project
disbursements of broadly defined basic education programs and activities (see para. 10) in the
aforementioned states and municfpios to the quality of federal, state and municipal planning and
project implementation capacity. Based upon: (i) the existing 'project cycle' under which state and
municipal investment proposals had been appraised each year until that time and (ii) test results of
revised procedures in three Project states, the Project, as described in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), sought to ensure the quality of Project investments by involving federal, state and municipal
authorities in the following six-step investment preparation and review process, which was presented
to appropriate authorities in the form of a lengthy 'Project Management Manual' prior to actual
implementation:
Step 1: IDENTIFICATION
-   Based upon five-year investment plans for each of the Project state and territories (as
had been already been reviewed and approved by the Bank), state and municipal
teams, with the assistance of federal specialized agencies (see para. 9), were to focus
on identification of appropriate investments at the municfpio level, by means of the
following two instruments:
(i) School mapping, which would locate and specify the need for school
remodelling as well as demand for new school construction; and
(ii) 'Micro 21mmin", which was developed as a parallel exercise designed
to identify need for training and educational materials in Project areas.
2 The Project area originally consisted of identified municfpios in seven states (Acre, Amazonas, Goids,
Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Pari and Rond6nia) and two fedral trritories (AmA and
Roaima); both federal tenitories subsequently becme states. Project activities were also included in
the new state of Tocantins, which was created from the northern portion of the state of Goids during
Project implementation.



-4 -
Step 2:  NREPARAION
- State and municipal Secretariats of Education, again working with the aforementioned
federal specialized agencies and after having participated in relevant seminars in
preparation on investment proposals, would prepare joint annual 'investment
applications' for approval.
Step 3: APPRAISAL
-   At the federal level, a suitably staffed Project Management Team (PMT), as
described in para. 9, would each year have an initial screening of all submitted state
and municipal investment applications, to ensure that: (i) applications were complete;
(ii) applications were consistent with the aforementioned five-year investment plans;
and (iii) project areas had been selected in accordance with stipulated criteria.
Subsequent to this initial screening, investment applications would then be distributed
to the federal specialized agencies for 'technical review' of individual components
(see para. 8). Together, the PMT and the federal specialized agencies would then
participate in a comprehensive appraisal of applications, some of which would also be
'spot checked" by the Bank on a random basis.
Step 4: APPROVAL
-   The PMT's Project Manager (see para. 9) would annually present fully appraised
state investment applications to the Secretary of SEPS, who would either approve
then or indicate the need for modifications. Approval would be based on the
following criteria: (i) relevance to stated subsector policy objectives; (ii) feasibility;
and (iii) efficiency in the use of program resources.
Step 5: SUPER      N      LEMENTATn
-   The PMT, together with the federal specialized agencies, would oversee the
implementation of approved state and municipal investments, including the provision
of further technical assistance by the federal specialized agencies, as indicated.
At this stage, the Bank was expected to: (i) monitor the overall quality of Project
execution, particularly those aspects requiring policy changes; (ii) review
implementation progress on an annual basis with the Program Council (see para. 8);
(iii) review annually the progress of the limited "national" components3; and (iv) in
the first year, oversee appropriate "project launch" activities as well as conduct
intensive direct supervision.
3 Whilo most Projwct asistnc was directed towards the state and municipal investment preparation and
mriew proces, approximately eight pect of Project funds weo devoted to limited "national
activitios" designed to strengthen federal capacity in the areas of: (i) regional administraion; (ii) long-
term planning an pro-investment; (iii) assistance to state and municipal audhorities; and (iv) monitoring
and evaluation.



Step 6: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
-   Each year, the PMT and the federal specialized agencies would prepare to submittal
to the Bank of Project monitoring and evaluation reports. To supplement evaluation
capacity which was to be developed within each State, there would also be an annual
implementation review, whose participants would include the Bank, the federal
specialized agencies, the Program Council, and state and municipal representatives.
7.    Orgnnaizatio. The success of the Monhangara Project was premised on the active and
continued involvement of a broad range of individuals in numerous agencies at the federal, state and
municipal level. The Project recognized that, particularly at the state and municipal level, many of
these individuals would require initial training if they were expected to carry out their stated Project
functions.
8.    At the federal level, a Program Council, headed by the Secretary of SEPS and with
representation from designated federal specialized agencies', was generally responsible for: (i)
approval of annual operation plans of the federal agencies overseeing project execution; (ii) general
review of Project implementation, through participation in the aforementioned annual implementation
review; (iii) preparation of recommendations to the Secretary of SEPS, would be responsible for
approval of all state/municipal investment applications presenting each year for possible financing.
9.   The aforementioned PMT, which was located within the MEC Coordinating Unit for Primary
Education (COEPE) and was headed by the Project Manager, was responsible for: (i) coordination
and review of annual operational plans and the activities of the federal specialized agencies; (ii)
appraisal of annual state programs, in accordance with the established criteria; (iii) supervision of
institution-building activities at state and municipal levels; (iv) monitoring of program implementation;
and (v) provision of information required by the Program Council and the Secretary of SEPS to carry
out their respective functions.
10.  The federal specialized agencies (see footnote for details) were generally responsible for
assisting states in the preparation, appraisal and monitoring of their respective technical components.
Within each of the federal specialized agencies, technical teams were established to assist specifically
in Project implementation.
11.  At the state level, the Secretary of each State Education Secretariat (SEC) would chair an
Advisory Council whose membership would include the state-level Program Manager, the chief SEC
Planning Officer and representatives from participating municfpios. Along the guidelines of the
aforementioned "Project Management Manual' (see para. 6), the Advisory Councils would be
responsible for: (i) review and approval of investment applications prepared for appraisal by MEC;
(ii) making decisions required to expedite the preparation of state investment applications; (iii) review,
on a quarterly basis, of program implementation; and (iv) after the first year of implementation,
4 Specialized agencies that participated in the Monhangara Project include: (i) FAE, which dealt with
educational materials; (ii) FAE/IRHJP, which dealt with trining and teacher support services; (iii)
CEDATE, which dealt with construction and equipment issues; (iv) FAE/PNAE, which dealt with
school nutrition; (v) SEAC, which dealt with "national' studies of long-term planning and investment;
and (vi) INEP, which dealt with the "national' studies of spocial projects.



consideration of additional municfpios which might request to be added to the Project area.
Moreover, each SEC Secretary would designate a full-time state implementation teams, which would
be generally responsible for: (i) identification of posible state investments; (ii) actual preparation of
state investment applications; (iii) execution of approved investment applications, where appropriate;
(iv) monitoring of implementation of approved state investments; and (v) preparation of
implementation progress reports for the federal specialized agencies.
12.  At the municiRa level, implementation teams with responsibilities similar to the state-level
teams described in para. 11, would be appointed by the municipal mayor. Both state and municipal
teams were to receive specialized training, including programs to be directed by the federal
specialized agencies, in the skills required to undertake school mapping, micro-planning (see para. 5)
and the further preparation of state and municipal investment applications.
E.   Project Imolemntation.
13.  Project implementation was relatively slow. After initial Board approval and loan signing in
May and July 1984, respectively, difficulties in the provision of documentation required to satisfy the
single condition of loan effectiveness5 delayed loan effectiveness until December 28, 1984. The
revised Closing Date was February 28, 1991, one year after the original Closing Date and sightly
more than six years after loan effectiveness. At the Borrower's request, the Bank canceled US$7
million from the loan amount. Four months before the project was officially closed, 61.4 percent of
the original loan funding had been committed.
14.  As detailed in subsequent paragraphs, major implementation problems and delays were
generally attributable to the following factors: (i) the overcomplexity of Project design and the chosen
"sector loan' approach; (ii) failure to address in full serious institutional shortcomings at the federal,
state and municipal levels, as had been identified in the SAR; (iii) inadequate Borrower commitment
to supervision of lower-level implementation responsibilities; (iv) political considerations, including
high turnover in Project-related agencies and lack of commitment to Project objectives; (v) insufficient
Bank supervision; and (vi) problems resulting from financial and procurement difficulties.
15. Complexity of Proiect Design and 'Sector Loan' Approach. As elaborated in the SAR, the
Monhangara Project was correct in noting that improvement of basic education would require a broad
range of activities, which would, unlike previous projects, extend beyond traditional concern for
educational materials, school facilities and teacher training to address complex issues of sectoral
management and financing. However, while the Project was correct in noting the complexity of the
education sector and in developing with the Borrower a comprehensive set of activities that addressed
the proper roles of federal, state and municipal agencies in the sector, it must also be admitted that
this first sector lending effort for basic education was much too ambitious in terms of the specific
objectives it sought to achieve in the limited five-year implementation period. In addition to the
logistical difficulties of coordinating the very large number of agencies involved, the Project did not
anticipate likely time delays in Project processing or, more seriously, the possibility of resistance to
the innovative decentralized management techniques which lay at the heart of the Monhangara
Project. From the standpoint of both Bank and Borrower, the sheer scope of the Project made it
5 The Government had agred, as a condition of loan effectiveness, to establish the system of advances
from the Central Bank to the Project Account in the FNDE.



exceedingly complex and cumbersome to manage, monitor, and evaluate. Moreover, while most
Project components did serve to promote intended Project objectives at least in part, the nature of
Project design also resulted in certain unintended negative effects.
16.  While the Project took great care to clearly and carefully define the roles and responsibilities of
all major parties involved in implementation in the SAR and accompanying 'Project Management
Manuals' (para. 6), Project design was somewhat unrealistic in its assumptions as to: (i) coordination
among the many Project participants; and (ii) the continued active participation and interest of these
many participants; and (iii) perhaps most importantly, the ability of participants to absorb rapidly the
Project's new and relatively complex processing requirements. Despite the sheer logistics of
coordination among the many Project participants (which, even before the consideration of actual
implementation, required the participation of MEC, the Ministry of Finance, the MEC specialized
agencies, nine separate secretariats of education and secretariats of finance, and 25 mayors and 25
municipal secretariats of education, with each participating entity operating independently under its
own jurisdiction and procedures), the failure of the MEC specialized agencies to provide continued
technical support to the state and municipal teams responsible for preparation of the investment
applications greatly reduced the pace and effectiveness of the Project.
17.  There are many indications that Project participants and management officials were confused as
to proper implementation and reporting procedures. While the Project's incorporation of Project
Launch Workshops for participants (which, in addition to the SAR and the reportedly dense "Project
Management Manuals', were in most instances the only guidance received) was highly commendable,
Bank correspondence at the time of said workshops notes that many participants did not feel that
adequate time had been allotted for the considerably large amount of technical and processing
information that was to be absorbed.
18.  The failure of the Project to abide by the 'schedule' presented in para. 6 is one indication of
the Project's unrealistic timing assumptions and the serious implementation difficulties encountered by
Project participants. By way of example, the micro-planning and school mapping exercises (see para.
6), which were to be completed in the first year and were to serve as the core of all subsequent
planning efforts, were seriously delayed and compromised by: (i) the fact that technical assistance
from the MEC specialized agencies did not truly eventuate; (ii) disbursements for institutional
development assistance (see below), which may have helped mitigate the dearth of MEC assistance,
did not seriously commence until 1987 with the advent of a subsequent Bank agreement with UNDP
to provide such assistance; and (iii) perhaps most importantly, the procedures for micro-planning were
frequently perceived as a 'low-priority' activity that was both overly sophisticated and detailed.
19.  As regards the complexity of the Project, it must also be noted that, as the Project took place
in 25 widely dispersed municfpios spread over nine states, the Project's efforts to target a
comprehensive 'package' of inputs to students in those areas was partially frustrated by the
considerable flow of students from outside the defined Project area into many of the Monhangara
schools. Monhangara schools were frequently inundated with more students than they could
efficiently handle without drastic changes in the level of educational services. Although there is no
data to quantify this assertion, it could be argued that the further strain placed on limited available
resources from having to accommodate these additional students may have, in practice, detracted from
or even negated the many 'quality-inducing' inputs that were financed through the Project.



- 8 -
20.   The combined inability of this complex Project to: (i) "phase" inputs in the planned sequence
or (ii) control the range of factors affecting the quality of basic education within the defined Project
areas is amply demonstrated by the progress of Project-financed school construction, nearly all of
which took place in the last two years of Project implementation. Given other factors which
contributed to delays in school construction (e.g., the preparation of school maps, design, contracting,
extended construction time, and inflationary budgetary problems), virtually no time was left before
completion of the project to train the teachers being hired for the many new Monhangara schools,
although the expectations arising from the project attracted so many students that some school
libraries had to be turned into additional classroom space. Also, while schools were being partially
rebuilt, the need for replacing temporary classroom space led to increased overcrowding in the
already overcrowded classrooms, and the number of shifts had to be increased.
21.  Institutional Shortcomings. While the Project correctly highlighted the lack of adequate
technical and administrative capacity as a major sector constraint, Project design seriously
underestimated: (i) the ability and willingness of the MEC specialized agencies to closely follow the
preparation and evaluation of state and investment applications, as detailed in para. 6; and (ii) the
level and depth of additional technical training required to enable Project participants to carry out
their designated functions. Implementation problems were further exacerbated by the difficulties
encountered by central as well as state Project management teams, whose lack of familiarity with
Bank and Project procedures was compounded by the extremely time-consuming task of enforcing
coordination among the many participating Project agencies. Although some states (e.g., Mato
Grosso do Sul) eventually managed to adopt the essentials of the Project's long-term planning
principles, the failure of the Project to provide needed management training resulted in serious
implementation problems in many states, consequently forcing the Bank in the final years of Project
implementation to concentrate remaining resources on those few states which were performing
relatively well.
22.   Lack of progress in institutional development activities subsequently led the Bank in 1987 to
encourage the Government to utilize a contract with UNDP, which was specifically requested to
provide training aimed at: (i) improving the planning and management of basic educational systems at
the three levels of educational administration; (ii) strengthening decentralization and community
participation; and (iii) implementing more rational decision-making systems. However, even with the
advent of the UNDP contract, institutional development - though intended as central to Project efforts
- continued to encounter implementation problems and remained the weakest Project component.
The number of staff trained who were connected to the Monhangara Project fell well short of the goal
of 300. Moreover, UNDP arranged training courses for a broad spectrum of individuals, many of
whom were outside the project, and was at one point under considerable pressure from the State
Education Secretary to divert efforts to traditional "teacher training" that were financed elsewhere by
the Project (see next para.). In addition, members of the central PMT were never trained by UNDP
or informed about their institutional development activities. In the final analysis, many of the UNDP
training activities were not fully consistent with the scope of the Monhangara Project, as the Bank did
not take proper steps to ensure adequate accountability to Bank and Project objectives.
23.   The Project enjoyed somewhat more success in the "traditional" training activities. In total,
the project trained 28,792 teachers and 8,627 school principals, supervisors, librarians, cooks, and
other specialized personnel in nine states during the six years of execution. The training of so many
individuals was considered the most significant and beneficial component of the project. However,



- 9 -
the fact that the Project was not able to "contain" teachers who had been upgraded by Project-
financed training, many of whom left the region or accepted higher-paying jobs) demonstrates once
more the inability of even this complex 'comprehensive' project to account in full for the full range
of sector dynamics - in this case, the impact on Project effectiveness of teacher mobility and salaries.
24.  Inadecuacy of Supervision. Project activities were inadequately supervised by the Bank, by the
MEC specialized agencies as well as by central and state Project management. Bank supervision
missions occurred on an average of three times a year in the first three years of Project
implementation, but subsequently declined in frequency; in general, Bank missions spent the greatest
amount of time dealing with central-level policy questions in Brasilia, with minimal efforts to assess
first-hand state-level activities. On the side of the Borrower, poor communications between the
various administrative levels of education sector management seriously comprised Project efforts to
inculcate long-term planning that matched central-level technical expertise with local-level
appreciation of demand for specific sector inputs.
25.  Although the need for extensive and sustained supervision was anticipated in the SAR, the
failure of this level of cooperation can be traced to both political factors (see succeeding paragraphs)
as well as financial considerations. To the extent that administrators: (i) did not sympathize with
Project objectives; (ii) viewed Project investments within their respective states as limited and
inconsequential; and/or (iii) as occurred increasingly with the passage of time, perceived Monhangara
as a 'problem project", interest in devoting necessary attention to supervision obviously waned.
Supervision efforts were also hampered by the protracted economic difficulties which characterized
the Project implementation period, which seriously constrained the Government's ability to provide
funds for such activities. By way of example, it can be noted that, as the per diem provided to PMT
staff (US$28.00) did not cover subsistence and safe accommodations, staff were generally reluctant to
visit the states.
26.  Political Considerations. Although a sector reform initiative such as the Monhangara Project
required sustained political support if it were to succeed, growing loss of such support throughout the
implementation period has a serious negative impact. Such political difficulties included: (i) the
aforementioned difficulties in maintaining proper communications between the large number of
participating agencies, which created problems for the Project from the outset; (ii) very high rates of
turnover within federal, state and municipal administrations as well as within the Bank; (iii) the
increased perception of Monhangara in some quarters as a 'problem project"; and (iv) most seriously,
resistance by some to the principles of decentralized sector management that lay at the heart of the
Monhangara Project. Moreover, this lack and/or loss of political support was increasingly
exacerbated by the dearth of interaction between senior political and technical managers of the
Project, which gave rise to a serious leadership vacuum that both directly affected Project
implementation and contributed to mounting delays.
27.   Project implementation coincided with an extremely volatile political and economic period for
Brazil, which included the return to a democratically elected government as well as major
administrative changes within MEC (including the division of SEPS, the Project implementing
agency). High rates of staff turnover (while the Project experienced four task managers during the
implementation period, there were in Brazil a total of six Ministers of Education, 50 State Education
Secretaries, five Project coordinators within MEC, and 99 Project coordinators within the nine Project
states) in practice meant the participation of individuals who did not participate in original Project



- 10 -
formulation and who, in many instances, did not sympathize with and/or understand the objectives
and procedures of the complex Monhangara Project.
28.  With respect to the new decentralized management system proposed by the Monhangara
Project, the Project design was unrealistic in failing to anticipate both: (i) the difficulties inherent in
altering long-standing centralized management practices and state/municipal deference to central
policies and decisions; and (ii) the need to keep incominmg federal and state administrators fully
apprised as to Project objectives and procedures, so as to secure sustained political support for the
proposed management changes. In this regard, it should be noted that staff of both the central and
state-level PMT's encountered serious resistance to their newly assumed roles as 'decentralizers, as
defined in the SAR and Project regulations. Without sustained high-level political support, PMT staff
were often hesitant to promote actively the reform aspects of the Monhangara Project.
29.  The loss of political support, which created considerable insecurity among central and state
Project management staff and served to cripple Project implementation, is most vividly evidenced by:
(i) federal authorities' initial unwillingness to allocate any resources to the Project in the 1989 budget
(see also para. 32); and (ii) numerous efforts by politicians to divert Project resources towards
activities inconsistent with Monhangara's original objectives.
30.  Problems Resulting from Financing and Procurement Difficulties. The Project encountered
serious financing problems, generally related to: (i) macroeconomic disturbances and increasing
difficulties in obtaining counterpart funds from the Government; (ii) cumbersome Government
budgetary and disbursement regulations; and (iii) Borrower unfamiliarity with Bank disbursement and
procurement procedures.
31.  A serious constraint to more effective Borrower performance was the high rate of inflation
throughout the Project implementation period (on an annualized basis, inflation ranged from 223.8
percent in 1988 to 1,476.6 percent in 1990), which in turn contributed to: (i) increased delays in
disbursements and reimbursements; and (ii) serious foreign exchange losses. Inflation-induced delays
in making disbursements frequently resulted significant increases in cost over the original estimates as
a result of the fact that delays between requests for advances from the Central Bank and the
presentation of certification of expenditure at the time averaged more than four months - by the time
such certificates were officially examined and requests for reimbursement were approved, usually
more than 30 days had elapsed, with exchange losses resulting from the new exchange rate that had
been posted in the interim by the Central Bank. By the end of 1990, the Project had received IBRD
and counterpart disbursements of US$81,159,084.42, but had expended only US$63,870,314.69, with
the difference of US$17,288,769.73 attributable to foreign exchange losses.
32.  Delayed counterpart funding periodically contributed to serious implementation delays, initially
as a result of the 1985 freeze on Government spending and simultaneous efforts to adjust to the newly
introduced currency. Delays in project implementation during the earlier years of the project and the
effect of lower disbursement percentages during later years when project implementation was well
under way had a negative effect on the total financial resources available for project implementation.
A serious decline in disbursements between 1987 and 1988 was partially reversed by a 1989
amendment to the loan documents which served to restore the Project's initial these disbursement
percentages during the last two years of the project. However, initial Government failure in 1989 to
provide any counterpart funds for the troubled Project was only resolved by MEC's agreement to



- 11 -
provide funds (which were to be transferred to states only after they had accounted in full for all
previous transfers) from own 'Fonte 13" revenues, derived from the Education Salary Tax.
33.   Finally, some Government officials felt that Bank guidelines for construction and procurement
activities were not sufficiently flexible to accommodate individual state regulations and policies
regarding bidding and contracting. Staff of several state-level PMT's expressed the opinion that the
Bank tried to impose its own bureaucracy and deadlines without consideration of the states' own
bureaucratic problems. Some state-level Project coordinators complained about the negative effects of
inflation due to bureaucratic delays, and asked for more autonomy in local bidding and procurement
procedures based on their knowledge of market conditions.
F.   Ect Resulta
34.   Although the Project did result in isolated benefits which, on balance, represent a positive
contribution to the education sector in Brazil, it did not achieve broad-based institutional reform, os
originally conceived. Curiously, while most officials involved in direct Project management staff at
the central and state levels are generally quite critical of the Project's conceptualization and
implementation, those individuals involved in the Project at the school, municipal, and state levels
frequently express a more positive view of Monhangara, citing: (i) generally, the equity benefits of
targeted inputs to the relatively neglected Northern and Center-West regions; and (ii) specifically,
Project-related improvement in facilities, teacher training, and learning materials. The Project
resulted in expanded access to educational inputs (schools, trained teachers, teaching materials,
textbooks, etc.), as presented in Table 4, and financed the refurbishment and construction of 218 and
58 schools, respectively. Over 2 million textbooks and educational packets were procured and over
37,400 teachers, principals, and technical and other staff received training as a result of the Project.
35.  In terms of systemic achievements, the Monhangara Project did generate certain innovations
which will endure and perhaps be replicated elsewhere. For instance, (i) the notion of school
mapping protocols as a necessary precedent to planning has been adopted nationwide; (ii) aspects of
'micro-planning"-related planning methodologies have now been adopted to some degree by most
states'; (iii) teacher training modules developed as part of the Project are still being used by many of
the country's respected human resources development institutions and universities; (iv) the notion of
developing appropriate 'packages" of appropriate educational materials, as first developed within the
Project, has gained currency. The Project can also be credited for developing new building
prototypes, now being more broadly applied.
36.   However, beyond the benefits which accrued to the Project area in terms of improved
facilities, provision of materials and teacher training, there is no means of quantifying to what extent
Project activities served to meet the specific Project objectives (see para. 4) of: (i) improved quality
and efficiency of existing primary schools in grades 1-4; (ii) increase in access to basic education; and
(iii) improvement in sectoral management capacity. In this connection, a very serious failure of the
By way of example, the plans submitted to the FAE for school matrials and lunches by the states and
municipalities of the regions all now employ the Monhangar medhodology. Moreover, all stes now
show the calculaions used for arrivig at the figures prsanted; some, such a the state of Mato Grosso,
have ben  to use micro-planning in sveral geographical areas. Amazoa has requested the micro-
planning software, while Acre is performing its micro-planning manually.



- 12 -
Monhangara Project is the fact that, although a monitoring and evaluation plan was at one point
devised, no such system was ever actually implemented. 'Evaluation' was in large part not even
considered until Project completion. Preparation of this Project Completion Report was greatly
hindered by the fact that several states had not yet submitted full evaluation reports to the central
PMT.
37. Attempts at E post facto estimation of Project benefits are highly tentative, in light of: (i) the
limited amount of information available; and (ii) the aforementioned difficulty (see paras. 19 and 20)
in restricting focus on Project-assisted municfpios, in that, counter to expectations, these areas
attracted significant number of students from outside the 'planned Project area. Pertinent data, with
particular reference to student flows, which would be helpful in such evaluation has only recently
begun to be collected and processed in some of the states, as part of the System for Basic Education
Evaluation (SAEB), which is receiving Bank support through the Northeast education projects.
However, while it would have been ideal had the Monhangara Project anticipated the collection and
evaluation of the SAEB data with specific reference to Project impact (with specific reference to the
performance of 'non-Monhangara' schools in Project states), this was not possible, as specific
institutional arrangements for SAEB had not at the time of Project preparation even been clarified.
As SAEB data had not yet been thoroughly processed as this Project Completion Report was being
prepared, it was not possible at this time to prepare a summary analysis of performance in Project and
"non-Monhangara' schools - although such comparison will be feasible in time as the extensive
SAEB data is eventually separated and analyzed. However, the establishment of the SAEB system
offers great potential for the institutionalization of educational evaluation in Brazil, and could
conceivably be used at some future point as the basis for a sector review of Bank operations and
achievements in the education sector in Brazil.
38.   With specific reference to the Project's impact on the efficiency of education, limited data
available at the time of the PCR mission were inadequate to determine whether the target of raising
each participating municipality's dropout and repetition rate to the state averages was met, or whether
the average number of years of schooling needed to produce one four-year graduate was lowered.
However, in a few schools visited, there was some evidence of progress toward this target.7
(Estimates derived from the PROFLUXO Model, which is based on data from the Manpower Surveys
of the National Household Sample Survey (PNAD) and which were made available during the PCR
mission, are unforunately available only at state or regional levels, and cannot be utilized to analyze
the performance of Project-assisted municfpios.)
L Limited statistical information on dropout and repeater rates over time was available from five Project
states. This information indicates that the fraction of project municipalities that accomplished their
micro-planning goals and/or made noticeable progress toward reducing dropout and repeater rates. In
Mato Grosso and Pars, none of the four municipalities in either state made progress in reducing dropout
or repetition rates. In Rondonia, all three municipalities reduced dropout tes, and two reduced repeater
rates. In Amazonas, one of the three reduced dropout rates, and two reduced repeater rates. In Mato
Grosso do Sul, two of the larger municipalities were divided into project areas. Of the 10 project areas,
4 reduced dropout rates and 4 reduced repeater tes. Amazonas and Mato Grosso do SWl provided
figures on schooling coverage. One municipality in Amazons met its coveae goals, but none of the
project areas in Mate Grosso do Sul did so. As theso calculations depend an projections from the 1980
census and esimations of how many people an area will hold, as well as on assmptions about migration
and cross-border attendance, both the specific goals referenced and the staistics here cited should be
interpreted with caution.



- 13 -
39.   The limited data available at the time of the PCR mission indicate progress toward eliminating
the noontime shift and consequently increasing the duration of each shift in the states of the Center-
West region visited (Goias, Mato Grosso, and Mato Grosso do Sul), but not in the states of the North
(Amapa, Para, and Amazonas), where rural-urban migration and widespread classroom shortages
generally made it impossible to maintain this policy.
G.   EProect Rislc Assessmn
40.   The SAR identified four areas of risk: (a) instability in tenure of project-related personnel, (b)
uneven implementation capacity of participating states, (c) limited counterpart funding during the
initial years of project implementation, and (d) cash flow shortages. The first risk identified turned
out to be well founded: in all, there were five consecutive coordinators of the central team and 99
coordinators in the nine states during the life of the project. This high rate of turnover undoubtedly
contributed to a lack of continuity in project performance, as already mentioned. To mitigate this
problem, the Bank and the Borrower had agreed to: (a) pay salary incentives, which were canceled
during the third year of implementation; (b) offer project-related training, which was never delivered;
and (c) to provide, by means of the MEC specialized agencies, continuous technical assistance to
states in project preparation, implementation, and monitoring, which seldom eventuated. This
situation also directly affected the second risk factor of uneven implementation capacity among
participating states, which Project design sought to reduce by means of increased supervision and
technical assistance. The third risk factor noted (i.e, the possibility of reduced Government
investment) did not present itself as a problem during the implementation period, although cash flow
problems, in the form of counterpart funding difficulties, did develop into a serious implementation
constraint.
41.   The preceding analysis indicates that Project design did not adequately anticipate several risks,
most notably: (i) loss of political support and/or resistance to Project objectives; (ii) inability of
authorities in the Project area to adopt the Monhangara techniques; and (iii) serious implementation
delays. These risks could have been partially mitigated by greater efforts to: (i) ensure the continued
support by key political leaders (both 'existing' and incoming) of Project objectives, by means of
more frequent meetings and more effective communications; (ii) ensure that necessary training
activities, of suitable length and detail, have been implemented, and that effective follow-up' and
technical support mechanisms have been devised; and (iii) reasonably define and limit the scope and
pace of Project implementation.
H.   Project SustainabiBly
42.   As evidenced by the influx of students to the Project area (see para. 19), the strong demand for
basic education is strong, which should, at a minimum, encourage authorities to sustain the operations
of Project-assisted facilities. Maintenance of refurbishment and new constructions should be assisted
by the relevant manuals developed during Project implementation, but, as with all recurrent cost
items, will be subject to the responsiveness of affected state and municipal education secretariats to
appropriate budgeting for such care. Kitchen facilities and school libraries built under the Project are
still in use in most cases, although shortage of classroom space in some schools has resulted in the
utilization of such support facilities for needed classroom space.
43.   With the cessation of Project funding and with remaining stocks of Project-financed materials
running low or already depleted, the fundamental risk is that the project's legacy may be cut short.



- 14 -
However, although personnel and school staff who received Project training have in many cases left
the area or even the sector, often in search of higher pay (see para. 23), their net effect on state
education systems, however, is not quantifiable. One way to retain contact and implicitly encourage
continuing education would be for the MEC to distribute a regular newsletter for former all Project-
assisted personnel.
44.   As noted in para. 34, certain Monhangara innovations, most notably micro-planning and the
concept of educational material 'packaging", appear to have taken at least partial hold in some states,
if in a less rigorous fashion than had been initially proposed in the Project design.
H.   Bankl Prformance
45.  In the absence of more reliable technical assistance from the MEC specialized agencies and the
inadequacy of programmed institutional development activities, Bank supervisory missions were
considered the most solid source of in-service training for project personnel at the federal and state
levels; although not intended as such, scheduled Bank missions often served in practice as a catalyst
to more intensive activity and progress on the part of central and state-level Project managers. As
noted in para. 34, Bank-assisted approaches have, to a certain extent, altered federal, state and
municipal-level education management practices. Bank missions did repeatedly seek to mitigate the
implementation difficulties of this ambitious sector loan, as noted by Bank efforts to: (i) activate
programmed institutional development training by arrangement with the UNDP contract; (ii)
strengthen capacity of the central PMT, by encouraging the naming of a new Project manager; (iii)
improve disbursement flows by agreeing to loan amendments that restored earlier reimbursement
percentages; and (iv) in the later years of Project implementation, acknowledge the variable
implementation capacity of participating states by focusing remaining Project resources on "better-
performing" states.
46.  However, Bank performance must be faulted for: (i) failure to react more promptly to the
aforementioned inflation-induced exchange losses which plagued the Project; (ii) inadequate
supervision at the state-level; and (iii) lack of continuity in Bank supervision, as indicated by the high
turnover of Monhangara task managers and occasional lapses in consistency.
1.    Boffower Performanc
47. Borrower performance was satisfactory. Despite the complexity of Project design, cumulative
implementation difficulties and very frequent political and administrative turnover, Project
management staff at the central level and in some of the Project states demonstrated remarkable
cohesiveness and dedication; despite the failure of the Project to provide adequate advance training for
such individuals, the cumulative management and project experience of such staff will redound to the
future benefit of participating states. However, it must also be noted that, after the high level of
political interest and commitment to Monhangara demonstrated during the period of Project
preparation, the subsequent failure to secure the active and sustained participation and coordination of
participating Government agencies (above all the MEC specialized agencies) represented a major
disappointment, which served to cripple state and municipal authorities' prospects for effectively
adopting Monhangara techniques. Lack of visible federal support for and involvement in the
Monhangara Project reduced overall credibility of the initiative, in the eyes of state and municipal
participants as well as of the Project's own managers and coordinators at all levels.



- 15 -
J.    Findings and Lessons
48.  (a) While concern for sectoral policy and management issues is fully appropriate in the
education sector, efforts must be made to ensure that: (i) objectives are well-defined and
attainable; (ii) activities to be supported are limited to a manageable level; and (iii)
institutional development activities must be given sufficient priority, to ensure that Project
participants can carry out required responsibilities. In essence, the desire for
"comprehensiveness' of approach must not override the viability and development impact
of the Project, over which the Borrower must retain essential ownership.
(b) The phasing of Projects with many activities must be based on a realistic timetable, to
ensure essential coordination and maximum impact of programmed Project inputs and
activities.
(c) Sustained efforts should be made to ensure that key political leaders maintain active
political support, and essential technical knowledge, of major Project objectives and
activities.
(d) In light of: (i) the significant responsibilities and widely differing capacities of Brazilian
state governments and (ii) the growing implementation reponsibiities of municfpios, the
Bank should take measures during project design and during project preparation to ensure
that adequate attention is devoted to involving and strengthening both levels of
administration, including the development of appropriate reporting mechanisms.
(e) The number of participating Government agencies should be kept to a manageable level,
with clearly defined mechanisms for reporting and continued coordination.
(f) Government interest in Project implementation may be easier to sustain in the long term
when activities are relatively concentrated in a smaller area, rather than diluted' over a
broader area.
(g) Appropriate mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of Project implementation and
benefits should be discussed and agreed upon during the Project preparation period,
including a limited set of readily monitorable indicators. Similarly, data bases should be
compiled throughout the Project implementation, and should be used to provide feedback
at the national, state, and local levels.
(h) Bank supervision missions should not only occur with greater frequency, but should make
greater efforts to assess first-hand developments at the state and municipal-level, if
applicable.
(i) Both the Bank and the Borrower should try to reduce the frequent turnover of top project
managers, which generally serves to compromise the effectiveness of Project coordination
and implementation.
(j) Special care should have been given to ensuring that administrative, financial and
budgetary systems are as responsive and flexible as possible, especially in their ability to
counteract the effects of inflation. In a highly inflationary environment, the Borrower
must make every effort to reduce to a minimum the delays in expenditure, certification,



- 16 -
and reimbursement. In addition, provision should be made for the prompt reimbursement
of eligible expenditures (especially at the state level) not contracted in accordance with the
original project specifications.



- 17 -
Part H. Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
[The Bank sent Parts I and III to the Borrower for comments, but there has been no response.]



Part m. Statistical Information
A. Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project
Loan number/        Year of      Purpose of
project title       Approval    Project                        Status        Comments
Loan 0755-BR        03171        Expansion of agricultUral     Closed        PPARV 01/80
Technical and                    and industria technical       06/30/78      (US$8.4 million)
Agricultural Project             education at secondary and
post-secondary loves
Loan 1067-BR        ll174        Construction, equipment,      Closed        PPAR" 03/85
Secondary Education              staff training, educational   12/31/86
Project                          reform in eight North and
Northeasrn states at secondary
and post-secondary levels
Loan 1452-BR        06/7         Strngthening of vocational    Closod        PCR 05/89
Vocational Training              trining, includig school      06/30/85      (US$32.0 million)
Project                          construction and mobile
taining units, labor market
analyses
Loan 1867-BR        06/80        Basic education in nine North-    Closed    PCR 12189
eastern states, covering 248  09/01/87
municipalities; construction,
teacher training, curricula
development, pilot school med
program, school mappings,
institutional strengthening
Loan 2366-BR        12/83        Improve technical training,   Closed        PCR 03/92
Technician Training              including curriculum          06/30/90
Subsector Project                development, educational
system reforms, teacher taining,
research, and computer equipment
Loan 2810-BR        07/87        Strengthen vocational         Uncommitted  PCR 01/92
Skills Foration                  training through studies,     balance of
Project                          technical assistance,         US$59 million
equipment, and construction   canceled at
request of
Goveanmont
(10/90)
(continued)



- 19 -
Table 1: IBRD Loans Relevant to the Project (continued)
Loan number/        Year of     Purpose of
project title       Approval    Project                       Statu         Comments
Loan 3375-BR        06/91       Improve primry education      Under way    Completion
in Greater Sio Paulo through               06/98
curriculum development,
teacher training, textbook
provision, pilot automatic
promotion program, increase in
school day, school constrction,
preschool care, and health
a. PPAR is the previous name for PCR.
Source: Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LAC) Information Center, QRISC data base, May 1992.



- 20 -
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date        Date         Actual
Item                               planned     revised      date
* Identification
(Executive Summary)
First                            01/82                    05/82
Second                           07/82                    07/82
* Preparation                      10/92                    10/82
* Appraisal mission                02/83                    06/83
* Loan negotiations                09/83                    12/83
- Board approval                   05/84                    05/84
* Loan signature                   07/84                    07/84
- Loan effectiveness               10/84                    12/84a
* Closing Date                     02/90                    02/91"
* Project Completion               04/89                    07/91
Notes: a. Postponement of the loan effectiveness from 10/30/84 to 12/28/84 was requested by the
Brazilian Ministry of Planning due to delays in the preparation of effectiveness documentation by the
Central Bank and the Borrower.
b. Extension of the project timetable was granted at the Borrower's request.
Source: LAC Information Center, May 1992.



- 21 -
C. Loan Disbursenents
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual
as X of
Appraisal    Revised                    appraisal
Year                estimate      estimate     Actual       estimate
1984                  2.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
1985                  8.0          3.7           3.7          46.2
1986                 18.0          5.0           5.0          27.8
1987                 30.0         15.0          15.0          50.0
1988                 38.5         23.0          18.5          48.1
1989                 39.9         30.0          20.7          51.9
1990                 40.0         36.0          27.4          68.5
1991                 -            40.0          30.5f1        76.2b
Date of final disbursement: July 17, 1991.
- = not applicable
^ The difference of approximately $9.5 million is accounted for by the fact that: (i) $7.0 million was
canceled in 1990 at the Borrower's request; and (ii) an addiitonal $2.47 million was cancelled after
Project accounts were closed on July 17, 1991.
' As a percentage of the revised estimate.
Source: Project computer files; LAC Information Center, May 1992.



- 22 -
D. Project Implementation
Table 4: Project Implementation Indicators
Percentage
Indicators                            Estimate       Actual    actual/estimated
Physical plant (schools):
Refurbishing and expansion              294           218           74
New schools                             197            58           29
Hunu resourcs (individuals):
Teachers trained                     43,490        28,792           66
Specialists, technical personnel     22,515         8,627           38
Educational materials (units):
Student textbooks                 1,592,913      1,786,266         112
Student packets                      48,421        67,275          139
Teacher packets                       8,403         6,667           79
Classroom packets, library books    248,398       177,357           71
Consumable school materials           2,525         6,779          268
Source: MEC Monhangara Project Final Evaluation Report, 1992.



- 23 -
E. Project Costs and Financing
Table 5: Project Costs
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Appraisal estimate                  Actual
Local   Foreign                Local    Foreign
Item                         costs    costs     Total      costs      costs     Total
(1) Works                   23.8       2.7      26.5        17.7       9.5      27.2
(2) Goods                    4.5       0.5       5.0        3.3        1.8       5.1
(3) Consultant services,
educational materials,
studies                 21.2       3.7      24.8        11.4      16.3      27.7
(4) Project administration   5.3       0.3       5.6        3.1        2.9       6.0
(5) Special account          0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
(6) Fee                      0.0       0.1       0.1        0.0        0.1       0.1
TOTAL                     54.8       7.3      62.0       35.5       30.5      66.0
Notes:  Consultant services, etc. are from Table 5.1 (Project Cost Summary) of the SAR, composed
of the categories 'States' and 'Municipal Programs', which are interpreted, from the report, as
consisting of textbooks and other educational materials. Project administration costs are listed as
'Building institutional management'. Estimated costs of civil works and goods are from Table 5.2
(Methods of Procurement by Project Category), from which equipment and furniture categories were
summed to form the goods category. (In Table 5.1 works and goods span the two categories, 'School
Facilities' and 'Additional Facilities'.) The Fee corresponds to the category 'Front-End Fee on
Loan'. Physical and price contingencies, presented on Table 5.1, are excluded from the above total,
which corresponds to Total baseline costs on Table 5.1.
Actual foreign costs are taken from the last Monthly Disbursement Summary, dated July
31, 1991. Categories 3-A, 3-B, and 3-C form the third item. Categories 4-A and 4-B form the
fourth item. The disbursement percentage for the first two items were as specified in the appraisal
report (SAR) at 35%.
Source: SAR; Project Monthly Disbursement Summary, July 31, 1991.



- 24 -
Table 6: Project Financing
(thousands of U.S. dollars and percentage)
Planned
loan
Source                       agreemen        Revised                 Final
(US$)     (US$)    (9)          (US$)      (%)
IBRD expenditure
categories                    40,000     33,000     82.5       30,573      76.4
Brazil                        40,000     40,000    100.0       53,000     132.5
Total                       80,000     73,000     91.2       83,573     104.5
Notes: The loan agreement was revised upon request of the Borrower in 1990, when US$7 million of
the loan was canceled. The loan accounts were closed on July 17, 1991, when the undisbursed
balance of US$2.427 million was canceled.
The increase in domestic versus bank financing was partly due to difficulties in processing
the large volume of expenditure certificates during the closing months of the project and pardy
because the average disbursement rate was lower during the early project years (1986-88).
Source: LAC Information Center, May 1992.



- 25 -
F. Project Results
Table 7: Direct Benefits
(percentage)
Northern urban           Center-West urban
Indicators                1984        1988           1984        1988
Repeaters:
Grade 1                  60.4        53.4          51.7         43.6
Grade 2                  40.4        37.1          34.4         33.5
Grade 3                  29.5        32.6          28.5         28.6
Grade 4                  30.2        26.9          30.3         25.4
Passing dropouts:
Grade 1                   0.4         0.8           0.7          0.5
Grade 2                   3.0         2.0           2.1          1.4
Grade 3                   4.1         4.1           4.4          4.0
Grade 4                   8.0         7.6           8.1          7.0
Failing dropouts:
Grade 1                   1.1         0.8           0.8          1.8
Grade 2                   0.5         0.3            1.2         0.2
Grade 3                   0.0         0.5           0.4          0.2
Grade 4                   0.7         0.3           0.6          0.7
Notes: The PROFLUXO Model is based on analysis of data from PNAD. It tends to produce
estmates of repter rates considerably higher than, and estimates of dropout rates considerably lower
than, school statistics.
These data refer to the entire urban areas of the respective regions, not specifically to
project schools, for which data were unavailable. The most current data available at the time of the
PCR were from 1988.
There was a substantial decline in first grade repeater and failure rates during the first four
years of the Monhangara Project.
Source: Prepared by Ruben Klein and Sergio Costa Ribeiro of the National Laboratory of Scientific
Computation, an agency of the National Research Council (CNPQ).



- 26 -
G. Status of Legal Covenants
Brazil: Urban Basic Education Project, Loan 2412-BR
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants, June 1991
Section    Status  Description of covenant                     Commeats
2.02 (b)   OK     Tho Borrower shall, for the purposes
of the project, open and thereaftr
maintain in the account bank a special
account in dollars.
3.01 (a)    OK    The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the project, and to this
end, shall carry out the project with due
diligence and efficiency, and shall....
3.01 (b)   DIP    The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter  Delays in tndating budget
maintain, local fUnding procedures that will  allocatio to the MEC, the delays
easu   that funds requured will be available  in tdanerring resouros from PNDE
on a timoly basis.                         to the dates.
3.01 (c)    OK    The Borrower shall enter into a Project     Project Agremet with dsta  of
Agreement with each of the states           Tocatins on September 14, 1990,
stipulating the basis for such state's       blin inclusion of municipality
participation in the carrying out of       formerly included u    Project
subprojects.                                Agreement with state of Goias.
3.01 (d)    OK    The Borrower shall, no later than
October 31, 1984, enter into agreements
with FAE and Joio Pinheiro Institute for
Human Resources (RHJP) for carrying out
Parts D and C, respectively.
3.01 (e)    OK    The Borrower sal not assign, amend,
abrogate, or fail to comply with any of
the agreements referred to in paragraphs
(c) and (d).
3.02 (a)    OK    The Borrower shall maintain the PMT [which
shall be responsible for carrying out
enumerated activities].
3.02 (b)   RVS   The Borrower shall maintain the              Although stablished at the
Program Council [which shall be             beginning of the project,
responsible for carrying out                the Program Council sopped
enumerated activities].                    functioning in 1986.     (cmoninued)



- 27 -
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants, June 1991 (continued)
Section    Status  Description of covenant                    Comments
3.02 (c)    OK    The Borrower shall channel through
the executing entities al the
project activities at the federal
level [u enumerated].
3.03       OK     Consultants' qualifications, experience,
and terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.04 (a)    OK    The Borrower undertakes to insure
or make adequate provision for the
insurance of the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of
the loan.
3.04 (b)   OK     The Borrower shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the
proceeds of the loan to be used
exclusivedy for the purposes of the
project.
3.05 (a)    OK    The Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents, and construction
and procurement schedules for the project.
3.05 (b)    OK    The Borrower shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the project,
shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction
sites, and shall furnish information to
the Bank, s requested.
3.05 (c)    OK    The Bank may publish a description
of any contract financed out of the
proceeds of the loan.
3.05 (d)    OK    Promptly after completion of the
project, the Borrower shall prepare
and provide the Bank a report on
the execution and initial operation
of the project.
(continued)



- 28 -
Table 8: Sttus of Legal Covenants, June 1991 (coauiwd)
Section   Stas  Description of covenat                        Commts
3.06      OK      Thl Borrower shall take or cause
to be taken all such action as shal
be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all sch land and rights in
respect of land a shll be required.
3.07 (a)    OK    Thm Borrower shall enter into an
Waeement with the Central Bank
(Banco Centrl do Brasil) to provide
for advances in cruzeiros.
3.07 (b)   OK     The Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate, fail to comply,
or waive such agreement.
3.08      OK      The Borrower and the Bank shall            This review w  not
hold, not sooner than June 1 or            hold during the periods
later than July 31 each year, a            specified.
review of all aspects of project
implementation during the preceding
calendar year.
3.09       OK     The Borrower sall engure that no sub-
project for purposes of providing training
or techer support services is carried out
unloss the subproject in question is consis-
tent with oxisting programs and unless there
is an appropriate network of institutions
located within the coreponding stat or
sdected municipality to provide the services
in question.
3.10      OK      When reviewing and analyDng each
subproject for school construction
or renovation, the Borrower shall
ensur that the works have been
justified by, and are within the
framework of, the mapping study.
3.11 (i)    OK    The Borrower undertakes to upgrade
statistics, develop social demand
indicators, and improve unit cost
analysis by July 31, 1985.
(contiued)



- 29 -
Table 8: Statu of Iegl Covenants, June 1991 (conti=ud)
Section    Status  Description of covenant                    Commnts
3.11 (ii)   OK    The Borrower undertakes to analyze          Completed with delay.
the impact of teacher wage policies
by July 31, 1986.
3.11 (iii)   OK   The Borrower undertakes to master
basic education models by July 31, 1987.
3.11 (iv)   OK    ITe Borrower undertakes to prepare
an atlas by July 31, 1988.
4.02 (a)    OK    The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained sepamato
accounts and records.
4.02 (b)   OK     The Borrower shall retain all records
evidencing the expenditures on accounts
from which withdrawals are requested
from the loan account.
4.02 (c)    OK    The Borrower shall have the accounts        Accounts wae audited
audited each fiscal year and shall          - required, but report
provide the Bank not later than four       wero not fiunished to the
month after the end of each such            Bank in the perod
year a certified copy of the report        specified.
of such audit.
4.03 (a)    OK    The Borrower shall have the                 The Special Account was
Special Account audited annually            audited as required, but
and provide certified copies of             the report wa not
such audits to the Bank not later          fwunished to the Bank in
than four months after the close            the period specified.
of the account bank's fiscal year.
4.03 (b)    OK    The Borrower shall cause the account
bank to furnish to the Bank each
month certified statements of the
Special Account.
Key: OK - Covenant complied with
RVS - Needs to be revised
DIP = Difficulties in compliance



- 30 -
H. Use of Bank RImuwe
Table 9: Staff Inputs
(staff-weeks)
Stage of
project cycle          Planned      Revised       Final       Comments
Through appraisal                                 34.8
Appraisal through
Board approval                                  112.9
Board approval
through effectiveness:                          90.8
Supervision                                      111.6
Total                                          350.1



- 31 -
Table 10: MIsdons
Stage of         Month/  Number of   Days         Specialiion    Performnce    Types of
project cycle     year      pesos    in field      reresented    rating satu    problems
Through appraisal
Identification    5/82        2         28           ED/ER
Preparation       7/82        2          14          ED/EE
Preparadon        10/82       2          16          ED/E
Appraisal 1       2/83        5         21           BA/BE/EP
ED/EP
Appraisal 2       6/83        5          14          ED/EP/BA
EE/SFPS
Post-appraisal 1  2/84         1         8           ED
Post-appraisad 2  8/84         1        22           ED
Supemmson
Supervion         10/84       4          18          ED/ARC/ED
PP
Supervision       10/84        1         8           ED
Supervision       11/84       4         22           ED/ARC/ED
PP
Supervision       2/85        4          8           ARC/PP/AE
ED
Supervision       6/85        3         23           ED/ED/EP
Supervision       9/85        5          18          ED/ARC/BA
P
Supervision       9/85         1        28           PM
Supeovision       5/86         1         17          FP
Supervision       5/86        3         25           ED/PP/EM
Auditing          10/86        1         5           PM
(continued)



- 32 -
Table 10: Misions (contiued)
Stage of         Month/  Number of   Days         Specialization    Perfonnane    Types of
project cycle     year      pesons    in field     represntd     rag sat        problms
Supervision       10/86       4         21           EA/ARC/ED
FP
Supervision       1/87        2         22           PP/ED
Supervision       7/87        2          14          FP/ARC
Supervision       4/88        2          16          PP/ARC
Supervision       4/89        1          2           ED
Supervision       6/89        3          15          ED/EE/ARC
Supervision       1/90        2          10          ED/EE
Supervision       10/90       1          4           EE
supervisioa       6/91        1          4           EE
Total                       63        403
Key: AE   - Agricultural Edwator        EM    - Education Management Specilist
ARC  - Architect                  EP    - Education Plann
EA    - Education                 PM    - Pinancial Magement Specialist
Specialist               PP    - Pacility Plann
ED    - Educaion Specialist       SPPS  - School Pood Program Specialist
EE    - Education Economist



- 33 -
I. Studies
1.   Evaluation Studies by the Joao Pinheiro Foundation.
"Baango Preliminar do Programa Monhangara" (Preliminary Review of the Monhangara Program).
Ten volumes, 1987-89.
Gustin, Miracy Barbosa de Sousa. "Diretrizes Metodoldgicas para Estudo em Profundidade de um
Programa de Investimentos em Educagao Basica: 0 Cas Monhangara' (Methodological
Guidelines for an In-depth Study of an Investment Program in Basic Education: The
Monhangara Case). Belo Horizonte, 1990.
Purpose: Not mentioned in the SAR. Intended to be a preliminary project evaluation.
Status. Concluded.
Impact: Considered to have been more of an evaluations of context rather than of input, process and
product, the studies major impact have been as a source of background diagnostic information.
2.   Studies In Support of Educational Planning.
Calsing, Elizeu Francisco. "Estudos de Assimetrias Educacionais no Brasil: Apresentacao de
Desigualdades" (Studies of Educational Asymmetries in Brazil: Presentation of Inequalities).
Brasilia, National Secretariat of Basic Education, 1989, 164 pp.
Xavier, Antonio Carlos da R. and Antonio Emilio Sendim Marques. "Custo Direto de
Funcionamento das Escolas Piblicas de Primeiro Grau: Aspectos Metodoldgicos e Manual de
Instruqoes" (Direct Cost of Public Elementary Schools: Methodological Aspects and
Instructional Manual). Brasilia, Secretariat of Elementary and Secondary Education, 1986.
Same for the Center-West, North, Northeast, and South regions.
Puwpose: Not mentioned in the SAR. Intended to provide planning inputs to the state Secretariats of
Education.
Status: Concluded.
Impact: The studies were distributed to the states of the respective region, and seem to have been of
some utility to educational planning during the first three years of project implementation.
3.   Support for the Development of Educational Experiences.
Marques, Genesio. "110 Desafio da Produtividade na Escola Piblica' (The Challenge of Productivity
in the Public School). Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso.
Tupiassu, Ivone Vieira da Costa. "Escolas Comunitarias em Bel6m: Semente ou Cinzas?"
(Community Schools in Belem: Seed or Ashes?). Universidade Federal do Part.
Monte, Nieta Lindenberg. "Analise de uma Experiencia de Autoria como os Indios do Acre"
(Analysis of an Experience with the Indians of Acre). Comissao Pro-Indio do Acre.
Bezerra, Aldenice Alves. 'Diagn6stico Estadual do Setor EducaW-Amazonas" (State Diagnosis of
the Education Sector-Amazonas) . Universidade Federal do Amazonas.
Figueiredo, Odineia Teles. 'Diagn6stico do Setor Educabo no Estado do Part' (Diagnosis of the
Education Sector in the State of Pars). Universidade Federal do Par.
St, Nicanor Palhares. 'Diagndstico do Setor Educagao no Territorio Federal do Amapa' (Diagnosis
of the Education Sector in the Federal Territory of Amapa). Universidade Federal do Para.
Clodomir Monteiro. "Diagn6stico do Setor Educagbo do Estado do Acre' (Diagnosis of the
Education Sector of the State of Acre) . Universidade Federal do Acre.
Souza, Ana Aparecida Arguelho de. "Diagndstico Estadual de EducaEio-Fstado de Mato Grosso do
Sul' (State Education Diagnosis-State of Mato Grosso do Sul). Secretaria de EducaSao do
Estado do Mato Grosso do Sul.



- 34 -
Oliveira, Leda Estela Amaral de. "O Ensino de Primeiro e Segundo Grau no Municipio de Santarem
no Estado do Pars" (Elementary and Secondary Education in the Municipality of Santarem,
State of Para). Universidade Federal do Para.
Figueiredo, Odineia Teles. "A Escola Publica: Desestimulo ou Desaflo?" (TMe Public School:
Discouragement or Challenge?). Universidade Federal do Para.
Valente, Edna Fatica Barros. "A Formacao do Educador para as Series Iniciais do Primeiro Grau:
Subsidios a Propostas Curriculares Alternativas" (Teacher Training for the Initial Grades of
Elementary School: Contribution to Alternative Curricular Proposals). Universidade Federal
do Part.
Bezerra, Aldenice Alves. "A Pratica Pedagdgica e o Fracasso Escolar no Cotidiano das Escolas de
Primeiro Grau em Manaus' (Pedagdgical Practice and Educational Failure in the Day-to-Day
of the Elementary Schools in Manaus). Universidade Federal do Amazonas.
Status: All the studies except the one involving Indians in Acre have been completed and will shortly
be published.
Purpose: Only one of these studies specifically addressed any of the four priority areas identified in
the SAR as "special projects in educational quality": the study by Valente addressed the
question of techniques for training teachers in grades 1 and 2.
Impact: The studies were of some utility, especially in the respective states.
4. Mlcroplanning and Mapping Manuals.
Marques, lara Maria de Almeida, and Olga de Jesus Bento. "Microplanejamento Educacional
Urbano" (Urban Educational Microplanning). Brasilia, Monhangara Program, 1991.
Arantes, Claudio Oliveira. "Mapeamento Educacional Urbano" (Urban Educational Mapping).
Brasilia, Monhangara Program, 1991.
Purpose: Microplanning and mapping was to be done at the state level as a prerequisite for financing
of specific projects, and as a way of strengthening local planning capacity.
Status: The manuals were only published in book form in 1991, but the methodology had been
applied since the beginning of the project.
Impact. Microplans were prepared by the states in 1984-85 and 1987. School mapping, which was
already under way when the program began in some states, was adopted by all the states.
Computer software is now available for microplanning. Several states and municipalities in the
North and Center-West regions are currently preparing microplans as a part of their regular
planning efforts; in all but one of these states, the computer software is being employed.
Microplanning is being employed in the preparation of the new Northeast Basic Education
Project, currently under preparation with the Bank.
5.   System of Evaluation of Public Elementary School Education.
Waiselfisz, Jacobo. "Relatorio Preliminar do 'Sistema de Avaliaglo do Ensino Publico de Primeiro
Grau: Ciclo de 1990'" (Preliminary Report on the "System of Evaluation of Public
Elementary School Education: 1990 Cycle"). Brasilia, SENEB/MEC, 1991.
Purpose: The SAR included an objective to strengthen the capacity for educational program
monitoring and evaluation at the state and federal levels.
Status: The system got under way in 1988 with pilot studies in one state in the Northeast and one
state in the Southeast region. In 1990, funding under BRA/86/002 (financed by the
Monhangara Project) permitted expansion of the system nationwide. It has now been decided
to expand the system to include private as well as public elementary schools, and subsequently
secondary schools. The system has been renamed the Sistema Nacional de Avaliacao de
Educacao (National System of Evaluation of Education), and will be administered by a council,



- 35 -
the president of which will be the Secretary of Basic Education and the technical secretary of
which will be the director of INEP, and which will also include a representative of CPS, to
which the Coordination of Information for Planning (CIP) is subordinated. One important aim
is to provide feedback to the schools for educational improvement.
IbP7.: While it is too early to expect an impact in terms of improved indicators of educational
performance, the system is an important first step toward some sort of educational
accountability and feedback.
Comments: Preinvestment studies for the new Northeast Basic Education Project are being conducted
under a specific Indicatory Planning Figure (IPF)-funded UNDP project.



