Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4918b-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF AN URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
IN NORTH AND CENTERWEST
April 24, 1984
FILE CEP
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT IN NORTH AND CENTERWEST
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ..............     .........................................     i
GLOSSARY .*.* .....................................                        ii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ... ................. ..... ......... iii-iv-v
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................*                        1
II.  THE BASIC EDUCATION SUBSECTOR ..............................          3
A. Introduction ..................                       .***         3
B. Critical Issues Facing Basic Education Subsector in
North/Centerwest Brazil ... ..... . . . . . ...... . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
C. Consequences of Deficiencies in Basic Education in
North and Centerwest Regions ............... *..........      10
D. Government Policy for the Subsector .....     ................    11
E. Constraints on Implementation of Government Policies
for the Subsector .....  ............ ..    .................  12
F. A Strategy for the Basic Education Subsector       ............   12
III.  SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR BASIC EDUCATION IN
NORTH AND CENTERWEST ..............................*.....        13
A. Introduction  o..................o ................. oso o        13
B. Objective 1:  Improvement of Educational Quality and
Efficiency in Grades 1 to 4 of Primary School s.o.....        14
C. Objective 2:  Expanding Access to Basic Education ......          18
D. Objective 3:  Building Institutional Management and
Investment Capacity for the Basic Education
Subsector at Municipal, State and Federal Levels
of Government                             ........... .       19
This Report is based on the findings of a two-stage appraisal mission that
visited Brazil in February/March and September/October 1983. Mission members
included Ms. Sherry Keith (General Educator, Mission Leader) and Messrs. Rene
Corradine (Facilities Planner), Roberto Carneiro (Educator, Consultant),
James Pines (School Feeding Specialist, Consultant), Jorge Ferreira da Silva
(Administration Specialist, Consultant), and Alberto Mello e Sousa
(Economist, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                                                                             Page
IV.   MANAGEMENT  AND  IMPLEMENTATION   ................................                                                  22
A.  Overview    ...             .... .o*...... o.........      ..................   ..............                22
B.   Subsector  Approach   . .......................  ...     ............  .                                     22
C.  Organization   ........................................................... .                                 23
D.  Staffing  .................................... o...... ,                     ..... # ............             25
E.  Implementation  Procedures   *                            ...............................                     26
F.  Criteria  for  Approval  of  State  Projects                                   ...................            28
G. Criteria for Procedures for Allocating Project Funds ......    29
H.  Phased  Implementation   ........ . . . . . . .   ....................               . ...............        31
V.    SUBSECTOR  PROJECT  COSTS  AND  FINANCES   .........................                                               31
A.  Costs  Financed    ...*........ ...............................................                               31
B.  Investment  Program   . ...................................... .                                              31
C.  Basis  of  Cost  Estimates   ........................                                           ....          31
D.  Contingency  Allowance   ... ... .. . . .   ....... . . ........                   .... ..........  .         33
E.  Foreign  Exchange  Component   ................................                                               33
F.  Recurrent  Cost  Implications   ..............................                                                33
G. Procurement  . ..................                            ...              ........                         34
H.  Financing  and  Bank  Contribution   ...........................                                              35
I.  Disbursements   ............................................................                                  35
J.  Auditing  ........... o.......                    so.........so..... ..... ......................             37
K. Readiness for Implementation .......                                               ............   37
L.  Retroactive  Financing   ........ . . . . . . . .    ..................................... .                  37
VI.    BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ..........  . . .. .   ...............*....             .............   . .....  .          38
A.  Benefits   ...........................*0000000                          .0.................O.                 38
B.  Risks               .......         . ,   ...      .    .....o                    o        ..    o            39
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS    .o ..... .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .   ............... .             .......  ..     .      o. .. .   40
TABLES  ....... .o ..... .oo ....oo..o.oo..........oo..........                         .      -oo-o ..........           42-48
DIAGRAMS  o.-...................ooo.......... o                     ......... ....... o        .o.......... ...           49-51
ANNEXES:
1.  Comparative Education Indicators.- .......................o..                                                    52
2.  Selected Documents Available in the Program File .... .......                                                    54
MP  ..    ...........o                                  0o.    ....    o....ooo....                                         56



- i -
BASIC DATA
Basic Education Net Enrollment Rates (1980)
(Grades 1-8)
Centerwest       70%
North            58%
Northeast        50%
Southeast       80%
South           75%
Adult Literacy Rate (1980)
Brazil           69%
Northeast        48%
Frontier         63%
Southeast        79%
Public Expenditure on Education by Level Relative
to National Total (1980)
Basic Education               47%
Secondary Education            7%
Higher Education               18%
Other                         28%



- ii -
GLOSSARY
COEPE     -    Coordination Unit for Primary Education
(Coordinaria de Ensino de Primeiro Grau)
FAE       -    Foundation for Student Assistance
(Fundacao de Assistencia ao Educando)
FNDE      -    National Education Development Fund
(Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento Educacional)
INEP      -    National Institute of Education Research
(Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais)
IRHJP     -    Joao Finheiro Institute for Human Resources
(Instituto de Recursos Humanos Joao Pinheiro)
MEC       -    Ministry of Education and Culture
(Ministerio de Educacao e Cultura)
OME       -    Municipal Educational Authority
(Organizacao Municipal de Educacao)
PMT       -    Project Management Team.
PLIDEF    -    Program in Primary School Textbooks
(Programa de Livro Didatico do Ensino Fundamental)
PNAE      -    National School Feeding Program
(Programa Nacional de Alimentacao Escolar)
SEAC      -    Subsecretariat of Coordination
(Subsecretaria Adjunto de Coordenacao)
SEC       -    State Secretariat of Education and Culture
(Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura)
SEMEC     -    Municipal Secretariat of Education and Culture
Secretaria Municipal de Educacao e Cultura
SEPS      -    Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education
(Secretaria de Ensino Primario e Secundario)



- iii -
BRAZIL
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE NORTH AND CENTER-WEST
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:        US$40.0 million, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.1 million.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries: The Ministry of Education and Culture, seven states and two
federal territories would be the major beneficiaries of the
loan proceeds, to be used in obtaining equipment for
schools, educational materials and for training of staff.
Project
Description:   The loan would help finance the Government's 1984-90
investment program for basic education in the North and
Center-West. The program objectives are to define a
long-term development plan for basic education, to improve
the quality of basic education in grades 1 - 4 of seven
states and two federal territories in the North and
Center-West regions, and to expand access to basic education
within the region where existing facilities are inadequate.
Risks:         Risks to project success include the possibility of
reduction to the planned investment program as a result of
continued financial difficulties in Brazil. To minimize
this risk, the Bank would disburse at a higher rate (72%)
for 1984 and 1985, and a lower rate (40%) thereafter.
Frequent turnover of project related personnel, particularly
at state level, could break the continuity in project
implementation. To limit this risk, salary incentives have
been agreed with the Government, and continuous project
related training and technical assistance are incorporated
into project design.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                   ------US$ Million-------
Local           Foreign           Total            _
Government                 40.0              -               40.0            50
IBRD                      30.5              9.5              40.0            50
Total                     70.5              9.5              80.0           100
Estimated Disbursements:  --- -------      - US$ Million---                 -
Bank FY                  85      86      87      88      89     90
Annual:                  7.5 1/ 5.5   11.0   12.0   3.7    0.3
Cummulative:             7.5   13.0   24.0   36.0  39.7   40.0
Rate of Return: n.a.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4918b-BR of April 24, 1984.
1/   Including initial deposit into Special Account.



v 
Estimated Costs:                -------------US$ Million------
Local           Foreign           Total
National Programs               5.3              0.3              5.6
Long-Term Planning and
Pre-Investment                1.0                               1.0
Strengthen Local Administ.    1.5                0.0              1.5
Special Projects                0.5               -               0.5
Evaluation                      0.5               -               0.5
Administration                  1.8              0.3              2.1
Sub-Projects                    49.5              6.8             56.3
State Textbook Programs         4.3              0.8              5.1
Municipal Training and
Educational Materials         16.9              2.8             19.7
School Remodeling               9.9              1.1             11.0
New Facilities                 18.4              2.1             20.5
Total Base Costs                54,8              7.1             61.9
Physical Contingencies          5.7              0.8              6.5
Price Contingencies            10.2              1.3             11.5
Total Project Cost              70.5              9.4             79.9
Front-end Fee on Loan            -                0.1              0.1
Total Financing Required        70.5              9.5             80.0






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The proposed project for Urban Basic Education in the North and
Centerwest regions of Brazil is part of general Bank support for basic
education. It is also an important element of the Bank's strategy in Brazil,
which specifies human resources development and poverty alleviation as two of
three priority areas for Bank action. In the education sector, the Bank is
operating in an environment of strict limitation on investment capacity and
recurrent cost expenditures. Therefore, emphasis is placed upon measures
that maximize the efficient use of existing resources.
1.02      The education sector has identified quality improvement and
structural changes in educational management as the priorities for Bank
lending in Brazil. Main attention would be directed to basic education
because: (a) it is at this level that the greatest inefficiency is found;
(b) improving efficiency and, therefore, broadening access without greatly
increasing resource use is given high priority by the Government; and
(c) there are important macro policy objectives to be addressed, particularly
through management improvement and reorientation in the education financing
system.
1.03      To date, the Bank has made five loans to Brazil for education and
training. The first Bank education loan (Loan 755-BR, US$8.4 million, signed
in June 1971) supported the expansion and improvement of 16 federal
agricultural and technical schools at secondary and post-secondary levels.
This project was completed on June 30, 1978. The PCR, January 1980, noted
that (a) the project was considered a success despite considerable
implementation delays and (b) graduates from project schools had generally
found employment quite readily or continued successfully with further
studies.
1.04      The second Bank education loan, designed to assist the Ministry
of Education and Culture in implementing a major educational reform
(Loan 1067-BR, US$23.5 million, signed in September 1974) financed the
construction and equipping of 15 basic and 31 secondary level schools and
included training for teachers and administrators, technical assistance and
pre-investment studies. It focused on eight northeastern states with the aim
of increasing access to basic and secondary education, training technicians
and skilled workers, improving the quality of education through training
programs for teachers and technical assistance, and improving the educational
data base through a series of studies. This project was completed in June
1983 and the PCR is being issued. The major lesson drawn was the need for
greater flexibility in project design to accommodate changing educational and
political circumstances likely to occur during project implementation.
Loan 1067-BR also experienced delays in implementation and closed 3.5 years
beyond the original termination date.
1.05      The third Bank education loan (Loan 1452-BR, US$32 million, signed
in September 1977) is assisting the Federal Ministry of Labor in
strengthening the national vocational training system and expanding its



-2-
capacity to meet skilled manpower needs for the economy. Implementation of
this project has been delayed because of a shortage of Government counterpart
funds in the present economic crisis. The project, however, was recently
amended and brought into the Special Action Program, and implementation is
expected to be completed satisfactorily.
1.06      The fourth Bank education loan (Loan 1867-BR, US$32 million, signed
in July 1980) has the objectives of expanding access to and improving the
quality of, basic education in 248 rural municipalities in 9 states of
Northeast Brazil. While implementation is approximately 18 months behind
schedule, primarily because of delays in effectiveness and administrative
difficulties in dealing with such a large number of the least developed rural
municipalities in Brazil, the project is providing an integrated approach to
basic educational deficiencies by building schools, training teachers,
providing educational materials and school meals and strengthening
institutional capacity. This project is being evaluated carefully by an
impact study financed through the loan and supplemented by Bank research
funds.
1.07      The fifth education project (Loan 2366-BR, US$20 million approved
by the Bank on December 8, 1983) finances the strengthening of existing
agricultural and industrial technician training institutions through
improvements in planning, management, curricula content, instructional and
administrative staff training, physical facilities and equipment, graduate
placement and follow-up and special studies. The project is expected to lead
to greater efficiency in the system without requiring financial resources in
addition to the Government's planned investment. It is the first education
subsector loan to be made in Brazil, and, therefore, it sets the precedent
for more flexible, policy-based lending tn accordance with the Bank's longer
range strategy in the sector.
1.08      During the past three fiscal years, the Bank has also conducted
extiensive education sector work. Two subsector studies of industrial
technician training and agricultural technical training education were issued
in 1982. Likewise, an in-depth analysis of the basic education subsector was
conducted during FY82 and FY83. The subsector memorandum, issued in August
1983, identified the major problems facing basic education throughout Brazil
as:
(a)   the low quality and internal inefficiency of the initial four
grades of primary school;
(b)   the lack of access to primary school for all Brazilian children
7-14 years of age;
(c)   the managerial weakness of the massive educational network which
spans the country; and
(d)   lack of funding for both capital and recurrent costs associated
with primary schooling.
Profound regional disparities were confirmed in all of the above with the
Northeast, North and Centerwest lagging significantly behind the South and
Southeast (Table 1.1 appended). As a result, the Bank and the Government
agreed that, because of limited investment resources, priority should be



- 3 -
given to these less developed regions. The proposed subsector project in
urban basic education for the North and Centerwest regions which absorb
substantial migration from the northeastern and southeastern rural poor, has
been selected on that basis. It would complement Loan 1867-BR (para. 1.06)
currently under implementation in rural Northeast Brazil. The proposed
project would address the major issues facing the subsector: low educational
quality and efficiency; lack of educational access, poor management and lack
of funding to the subsector.
II. THE BASIC EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01      The Basic Education Subsector.  The basic education subsector is
divided into two cycles--lower primary (grades 1 to 4, ages 7 to 10) and
upper primary (grades 5 to 8, ages 11 to 14). The minimal educational
objectives of the lower primary cycle are functional literacy and numeracy.
Adequate academic preparation for secondary education is the objective of the
second cycle. The basic education subsector currently enrolls some 23
million students in the 24 states and two federal territories of Brazil.
2.02      The North and Centerwest Regions.  These two regions, frequently
referred to jointly as the Frontier, account for more than 85% of Brazil's
external border with other nations in South America and constitute the
largest undeveloped area in the country. In terms of economic and social
indicators (Table 2.1 appended), they fall below national averages and those
of the South and Southeastern regions of the country on per capita income;
population over ten years earning more than two minimum wages; and the
percentage of urban population. At the same time, they are slightly better
off than the Northeast, with the exception of nutritional status (15% of the
population in these two regions is estimated to suffer from caloric
deficiencies, while 13% is plagued by such deficiencies in the Northeast).
The Centerwest 1/ is characteristically an agricultural region whose
population grew at the rate of 4% annually between 1970 and 1980, slightly
above the national average. The region has absorbed significant excess labor
from the South of Brazil (Sao Paulo, Parana and Rio Grande do Sul). The
Government has sponsored several large development programs, including
Polocentroeste and Polonoroeste, designed to attract population from other
regions in order to exploit the area's vast agricultural potential.
2.03      The urban population has grown steadily over the past decade and
surpassed 50% of the total regional population by 1980. The growing
concentration of land ownership has increasingly relegated the agricultural
labor force to rapidly growing urban agglomerations throughout the region.
1/ Centerwest includes the states of Goias, Mato Grosso Sul and Mato
Grosso.



The "boia fria" 2/ common to southern Brazil agriculture has also become a
familiar pattern in the Centerwest. While agriculture is of prime importance
to the Centerwest, contributing approximately 24% to the region's economic
output, services accounted for nearly 68%, with industry slightly less than
9% (1975).
2.04      The North, 3/ like the Centerwest, contains vast expanses of
uncolonized territory. However (in six federal units), between one-third and
one-half of population is concentrated in the capital cities alone
(Table 2.2 appended). Unlike those of the Centerwest, these cities grew more
rapidly than the region as a whole (at a rate of 7.3% above that of 5% for
the region). The North is dominated by the Amazon basin, noted for its
mineral and hydroelectric potential. It too has received substantial
migration, principally from the Northeast. As in the Centerwest, rapid
population growth has created economic dislocations and social tensions.  The
regional labor market has not been able to absorb the migrant population and
squalid slums have mushroomed on the outskirts of almost every large and
medium size city.
B.  Critical Issues Facing the Basic Education Subsector
in North/Centerwest Brazil 4/
2.05      There are two categories of critical issues facing basic education:
educational issues and management issues. Each area encompasses a series of
interrelated problems which need to be considered in formulating a strategy
for making improvements over the medium and long term.
1. Educational Issues
2.06      Salient educational issues are the low quality and quantity of
graduates from the first cycle of basic education and the lack of access to
school. These are interrelated problems: the poor quality of schooling
offered in the lower grades of primary school directly affects internal
efficiency by increasing repetition and contributing to student dropout. Low
internal efficiency, characterized by a substantial proportion of repeating
students in the early grades (1 and 2), leads to overcrowded facilities
which, in turn, limits access for new students and diminishes the quality of
education offered during the first years of school. These issues are
discussed in the following paragraphs.
2/ "Boia-fria" literally means cold-lunch, but, actually refers to
agricultural workers who live in towns and cities and go daily to the
countryside carrying their "cold" lunches.
3/   The North includes the states of Acre, Para, Amazonas, Rondonia and the
federal territories of Roraima and Amapa.
4/ For a discussion of major issues in basic education in Brazil at large
see Brazil: Basic Education Subsector Memorandum, World Bank,
August 1983.



(a) Low Quality and Quantity of Graduates
2.07      The quality of student learning is especially precarious in the
first four years of primary school in urban areas. 5/ Likewise, the number
of students who complete four years of primary school is low. Two-thirds of
the students who enroll in first grade drop out before reaching fourth grade
(Table 1.1 appended). One-third to one-half of the students in grade 1 are
repeaters, as are 15-30% in grade 2. This means that there is a significant
proportion of over-aged students at each grade level. In the state of Acre,
for example, the average first grade student is ten years old. Low
educational quality and internal efficiency are inextricably interrelated
and have multiple causes including (a) poor teaching; (b) lack of student
textbooks and materials; and (c) lack of student learning time. Each of
these major educational deficiencies and its consequences are discussed
below.
2.08      Poor Teaching.  Three factors prejudice the teaching process in
primary schools: (a) the lack of specific in-service and pre-service training
in teaching of literacy and numeracy; (b) the lack of essential "tools" of
the trade, e.g., supplies and materials; and (c) poor working conditions.
2.09      While 77% of the urban teaching force has completed secondary
school in the North and 86% in the Centerwest, these teachers lack training
in how to teach children to read and write and how to use specific learning
materials in the first two grades of primary school. This fact is evidenced
by the low internal efficiency in grades 1 and 2 of urban primary schools
(Table 1.1 appended). Existing in-service training to upgrade teachers'
skills is largely limited to short courses (20-40 hours) during summer
vacation. These courses do not always focus on the most essential parts of
the curriculum--language and mathematics--or on the utilization of specific
learning materials.
2.10      Books, chalk, paper and pencils are the tools of a teacher's
trade. Throughout these two regions, these items are not systematically
supplied to the schools. As a consequence, many teachers have to spend an
inordinate amount of classroom time dictating or copying lessons, information
and exercises for students on chalk boards. The absence of essential
educational materials and equipment makes even the best trained teacher
relatively ineffective and unproductive.
2.11      All state school systems of the North and Centerwest, have
teachers' statutes and/or regulated employment contracts as well as regulated
wage scales (Table 2.3 appended). In capital cities, municipally
administered schools usually pay the same wages as state schools. In fact,
5/ Here we refer to primary schools principally in urban areas of North
and Centerwest Brazil. The situation with respect to rural areas has
similarities as well as differences. These are discussed fully in
Brazil: Basic Education Subsector Memorandum, World Bank, August 1983.



- 6 -
the state often subsidizes, or directly pays, the wages of urban municipal
teachers. While state wage levels cannot be upgraded in the context of
the present economic crisis facing the country, they should be enforced
as presently constituted and extended to municipal schools whenever
feasible. 6/ Moreover, signed employment contracts should be the basis of
contracting municipal as well as state teachers.
2.12      Lack of Student Textbooks and Materials. Students must purchase
their own books because there are not enough free textbooks, learning
materials, and school libraries for primary school students in Brazil. Less
than one book per student enrolled in grades 1 to 4 of primary school is
distributed annually through the Textbook Program for Basic Education
(PLIDEF). The purchase of textbooks at an average cost of $1.50 is beyond
the financial capacity of the majority of students attending primary school.
The importance of textbooks for academic achievement has been demonstrated
both in Brazil and in other developing countries. 7, Moreover, pencils,
paper, erasers, and such must be purchased by students, which means that many
students in the poor urban areas do without these essentials. Nor are the
urban schools of the North and Centerwest equipped with even rudimentary
school libraries or classroom books to supplement textbooks and provide
intellectual stimulation for the students.
2.13      Lack of Effective Student Learning Time.  Students do not have
enough time to learn because of (a) multiple shifting, which reduces the
length of the school day, and (b) reduced attendance caused by direct and
opportunity costs to schooling, as well as poor health.
2.14      Most urban schools operate with three student shifts per school day
and, in some cases, four as a result of serious overcrowding of existing
facilities. Under these circumstances, very limited time is available (2 to
2-1/2 hours daily) to cover the standard curriculum through in-classroom
6/ A review of the status of compliance with a loan covenant of BR-1867
requiring the presentation of a teachers' contract/statute for the 248
municipalities included in that project revealed that 241 of 248 had
presented contracts/statutes to the municipal legislature by December/83
and as of February/84 over 50% had already been legally adopted.
7/ Research in Rio Grande do Sul among 20,000 first and second grade
students demonstrated that, in rural and urban state schools, as well as
municipal schools, the number of textbooks owned by students was the most
powerful predictor of a passing grade in Portuguese language in grades 1
and 2. Moreover, the effectiveness of textbooks was found to be greater
if the student's parents had no schooling. These findings are consistent
with other studies in developing countries. The evidence reviewed in the
World Bank Staff Working Papers, Textbooks and Achievement reveals that
the availability of books is the most consistent school factor in
predicting academic achievement. It had positive effects in 15 of 18
studies in countries as broadly ranging as Brazil, Ghana, the
Philippines, Thailand and Chile.



- 7 -
student learning. Student attendance is also low (less than a 65% daily
average) and irregular in the urban primary schools of the North and
Centerwest. Reduced attendance can be traced to three principle factors:
direct costs, opportunity costs, and poor student health.
2.15      Primary school attendance has direct costs which must be paid by
the family. These include the cost of textbooks, materials, transportation
and uniforms. They are estimated at a minimum of US$25 per student per year,
or about 7% of the annual income for a family with three children in primary
school (Tables 2.4 and 2.5 appended). Rising costs of primary schooling have
been shown to increase the probability of student dropout. 8/ Provision of
free educational materials, including textbooks, pencils, paper and other
essentials, limits the burden of direct costs of basic education on families,
2.16      Opportunity costs of primary schooling (e.g. the income foregone
by students who attend school rather than work) reduce student daily
attendance and often result in complete student dropout. In the Brazilian
case, opportunity costs of attending the first grade constitute 24% of the
costs borne by the individual, and, by the fourth year, these are up to
approximately 40%. 9/
2.17      Poor student health and nutrition has a negative impact upon school
attendance. While the Government's school lunch program (PNAE) reaches seven
out of ten students in over 95% of the municipalities in these regions,
the facilities for serving school lunches, training of cooks to prepare the
meals and regularity in delivering of food supplies are deficient.
(b) Lack of Access
2.18      Lack of access to schooling affects school age children in the
North and Centerwest regions, where average net enrollment rates are 58% and
70% respectively (Table 1.1 appended). Net enrollment in grades 1 to 8 is
currently 68% nationwide for all children seven to 14 years of age in
Brazil. Low enrollment in urban areas is due to: (i) lack of school
facilities; (ii) poorly located facilities; and (iii) low internal efficiency
of existing facilities.
(i)   Lack of School Facilities.  There are not enough school places to
accommodate all children seven to 14 years of age in the North and
Centerwest. Deficits in grades 1-4 are estimated at 16% and 11% of
current capacity in urban areas of the North and Centerwest
respectively;
8/  See K. H. Lee and J. P. Tan, Financing Primary and Secondary Education
from Private Household Resources: Prospects for Malawi, Education
Department, World Bank, October 1983.
9/  See G. Edward Schuh, "Increasing the Effectiveness of Food Aid:
Offsetting the Opportunity Costs of Schooling" presented at the World
Food Programme/Government of the Netherlands Seminar on Food Aid
Marking the Twentieth Anniversary of the World Food Program; The Hague,
October 1983.



- 8 -
(ii)   Poorly Located School Facilities.  Existing schools are not always
well located because (i) school authorities do not use school
location planning techniques to site additional facilities; and
(ii) the overlap of state and municipal jurisdictions in the same
urban area leads to duplication of activities (e.g., two schools
within a short distance of each other along with no schools in
other locations). Poorly located schools reduce access because
students from one area must travel to another in order to attend
school. Transportation costs may inhibit attendance altogether or
significantly reduce its frequency;
(iii)   Low Internal Efficiency.  Low internal efficiency in the early
grades of primary school limits the availability of places to new
students (para. 2.07). An improvement in internal efficiency,
principally through investment in education quality, can
potentially increase student flows through the system, reduce
overcrowding and, consequently, increase access more than
proportionately to the increase of facilities.
2.   Management Issues
2.19      Primary schools are administered directly by state and municipal
authorities 10/, while the Ministry of Education and Culture establishes
norms, policies and national plans and provides limited investment funds and
technical assistance for the subsector. Six important administrative
problems confronting the subsector are: (a) the dual state/municipal delivery
system for basic education; (b) the lack of administrative staff at the
municipal level; (c) poorly trained staff at the state level; (d) the
inability to mobilize technical expertise available nationally to assist
states in these two regions; (e) inadequate planning; and (f) lack of
financial resources.
2.20      Dual Delivery System.  De facto, both state and municipal
authorities run primary school systems. The school systems overlap in the
urban areas of all states of the North and Centerwest. The consequences of
this administrative overlap are (a) duplication of services, including school
facilities (para. 2.18); (b) uneven quality of education within the same city
because state governments have more resources and generally offer higher
quality education than municipal governments; (c) neglect of statewide
educational planning functions due to state's administrative burden of
running primary schools and a planning perspective which limits itself to the
state school system; and (d) the choking off of federal resources from
municipalities which do not deal directly (as a rule) with the federal
government.
10/ With the exception of the Federal territories, in which basic education
is provided by the Federal Government itself.



- 9 -
2.21      Lack of Administrative Staff in Municipalities.  Most
municipalities do not have the financial resources to staff a municipal
educational administration unit (referred to as Municipal Educational
Organizations, OMEs). Consequently, municipalities cannot provide essential
support services to their schools such as physical maintenance, in-service
teacher training, pedagogical supervision and technical assistance.
2.22      Poorly Trained Staff at State Level.  State Secretariats of
Education (SECs) are lacking in staff with training in educational planning;
project planning, administration and finance; school location planning and
pedagogical supervision. The consequences of these staff deficiencies are
manifest in the educational problems (quality, efficiency and access)
discussed in paragraphs 2.06 to 2.18.
2.23      Inability to Mobilize National Expertise.  The Ministry of
Education's ability to mobilize technical assistance for the less developed
regions of the North and Centerwest has been limited. The Secretariat of
Primary and Secondary Education (SEPS) has, under its direction, several
extremely large, specialized institutions: PNAE (Program for School
Nutrition), FAE (The Foundation for Student Assistance), FENAME (the National
Educational Materials Foundation) and IRHJP (the Joao Pinheiro Institute for
Human Resources). Each of these institutions is responsible for providing
specialized technical assistance to state educational authorities, as well
executing specific programs for basic education on a national level.
Their capacity has been best developed in the southern regions of the
country. The tremendous human and financial resources of these institutions
need to be mobilized to assist the northern and central regions. In order to
achieve a larger and more integrated level of technical assistance on the
part of SEPS and its related agencies, a stronger coordinating unit within
SEPS is needed.
2.24      Inadequate Planning.  Lack of short term planning is manifest at
state and municipal levels in several ways: the absence of school location
planning (para. 2.18); the poor allocation of teachers and materials
available, e.g., the better teachers and more learning materials being
destined to the upper rather than lower grades (1 and 2) of primary school
where deficiencies are most critical; and the lack of clearly specified
technical criteria and appropriately trained staff to appraise educational
investment plans at state and federal levels. Each contribute to poor
allocation of limited investment funds.
2.25      The lack of long term planning for basic education in the North and
Centerwest regions reflects a lack of national level planning. The
Subsecretariat of Coordination (SEAC) has macro educational and financial
planning functions for the subsector. Currently SEAC is understaffed, lacks
specific technicians and does not have the budget to contract specialized
consultant services or to purchase computer hardware and software needed to
carry out technical activities related to educational planning and subsector
finance. SEAC has been responsible for the preparation of World Bank and
other internationally funded projects. This responsibility places an
excessive burden on the Subsecretariat in addition to its routine financial



- 10-
planning, as well as medium and longer term educational planning functions.
In any institution-building effort, SEAC needs to be fortified because of the
central role it plays in providing the technical analysis of policy decisions
related to the subsector.
2.26      Lack of, and Poorly Utilized, Financial Resources.  The basic
education subsector in the North and Centerwest regions suffers from a lack
of both recurrent and investment funds. The limited state and municipal
capacity to fund the subsector is due to the weak municipal and state tax
base in general and the highly centralized taxation system, which is generic
to the fiscal system in Brazil rather than specific to the education sector
or to the North and Centerwest regions. Resolution of the macro problems of
financing the basic education subsector needs to be based on a careful
analysis of alternative financial mechanisms studied systematically at the
national level and discussed in conjunction with general fiscal reform. The
lack of investment funds is, however, exacerbated by the current economic
situation and the states' lack of capacity to finance investments in basic
education from their own revenue sources, which have not increased during the
past ten years. II/ As a result, SECs have become more reliant upon MEC
transfers for financing investments. During the present economic crisis
NEC's capacity to mobilize resources is severely constrained. The lack of
investment funds is one principal factor inhibiting the improvement of
quality at the primary level.
2.27      Existing investment funds have not always been used efficiently.
Investments have been allocated primarily to expand access on an ad hoc, non
planned basis. Nor have substantial resources been allocated to improve the
quality of basic education. Reordering of priorities is needed so that
investments are designated to inputs which can improve internal efficiency
(to relieve present congestion) and quality (to improve student learning and
expand access selectively on a well planned basis).
C. Consequences of Deficiencies in Basic Education in
North and Centerwest Regions
2.28      There are both specific and general consequences of the educational
and managerial deficiencies plaguing basic education in the North and
Centerwest. They include:
11/ The general declining trend in states capacity to finance investment
from their own resources in many sectors has been discussed by Mahar and
Dillinger in Financing State and Local Government in Brazil, World Bank
Staff Working Paper No. 612, September 1983.



- 11-
(a)   not enough graduates available for additional specialized training
(technical, vocational and general secondary), which is reflected
in a deficiency of semi-skilled and skilled workers in these
regions;
(b)   scarce financial and human resources being wasted directly in the
educational process through inefficiencies;
(c)   regional imbalances in economic infrastructure, productivity and
general socio-economic development being perpetuated and, perhaps,
increasingly exacerbated; and
(d)   poor health and nutrition and higher fertility rates, which have
been shown to correlate with a low level of education among the
female population.
D. Government Policy for the Subsector
2.29      The Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education (SEPS) of MEC
has prepared a diagnosis of the major issues in the basic education
subsector. Based on this diagnosis and the Third Education Sectoral Plan
1980-1985, a general policy framework for the subsector has been developed.
The policy objectives include:
(a)   targeting basic education resources on the most needy sectors of
the society--the urban poor and the rural population in the most
deprived regions of the country--to reduce regional as well as
social disparities;
(b)   improving the quality and efficiency of basic education for these
deprived sectors;
(c)   expanding access to basic education for the targeted groups; and
(d)   strengthening management of the subsector through sectoral planning
and technical-administrative modernization at federal, state and
municipal levels.
2.30      The policy objectives cover the major educational and management
problems confronting the subsector. MEC, however, recognizes that it has to
develop a sequenced approach to dealing with issues so broad and, frequently,
deep-rooted in larger governmental and social structures. The details of
these policy objectives and an elaboration of the strategy for the subsector
are contained in the documents available in files. The Government's acknow-
ledged policy framework represents a significant change in the Ministry's
approach to investment in basic education. By linking the application of
resources to specific priority areas, social groups and educational and
managerial policies, the Ministry has moved from a position of merely
transferring funds to the states to one of conditioning the use of those
funds upon well defined investment priorities in accordance with specific
plans.



- 12-
E. Constraints on the Implementation of Government
Policies for the Subsector
2.31      There are three constraints upon the implementation of the
Government's policies for the subsector: financial, institutional and
political.
2.32      Financial constraints upon the availability of investment resources
at federal, state and municipal levels (para. 2.26) severely limit the
Government's capacity to achieve its policies.  Resources available to the
Federal Government through the Education Salary Tax (SE) 12/ halie declined
by 25% during the first three quarters of 1983, and, while this trend is
expected to stabilize, receipts from the SE are unlikely to grow
significantly during the coming two years.  For the country to make progress
in the basic education subsector, it will need more money, together with more
efficient use of scarce resources.
2.33      Institutional constraints on the Government's plans include
(a) lack of technical capacity at state and municipal levels to plan and
execute well designed investment projects and (b) limits on the Federal
Government's capacity to provide needed technical assistance in these areas.
These constraints severelv limit investment capacity. Even if substantial
additional resources were to become available, there would be constraints on
the Government's ability to achieve its objective of technical-administrative
modernization and improved planning.
2.34      Political constraints include strong pressures at state and
municipal levels to opt for investments which expand educational access
ad hoc and neglect serious and costly inefficiencies as well as the low
quality currently plaguing the system. These pressures interfere with the
federal government's policy of improving education quality for the neediest
segments of society.
F. A Strategy for the Basic Education Subsector
2.35      Despite the size of the subsector Bank lending to the sector can
have considerable impact if it is selective and concentrates on actions where
the Bank has a comparative advantage. There is accumulating experience and
evidence available in Brazil, as well as in other countries, to support
limiting Bank participation in the subsector to improving the quality and
12/ The Education Salary Tax (SE) is a 2-1/2% tax on the wage bill of firms
employing 100+workers. It is collected at local level, aggregated at
state level and transferred to the Federal Government. The SE is then
distributed to the states on the following basis: 2/3 return to the state
of origin and 1/3 remains with MEC for redistribution among the states in
accord with a formula favoring the poorest states with the largest school
age population.



- 13-
efficiency of basic education and expanding access on a highly selective
basis. 13/ For example, Birdsall and Behrman's recent study L4f estimates
that, in Brazil, school quality yields a higher social rate of return than
expanding educational access and suggests that there is an equity/producti-
vity trade-off in schooling investment. The Bank has three long-term
objectives for basic education in Brazil which span the next 10 to 12 years:
(a) upgrading educational quality and efficiency; (b) selective expanding of
access; and (c) improving management of the subsector. These objectives are
being pursued through a strategy that interrelates the improvements in school
quality, efficiency and access with improved managerial capacity. This
strategy is consistent with the sector approach, which requires clearly
specified government policies, a defined investment plan and agreed upon
procedures and criteria for the preparation, appraisal and implementation of
specific projects. Via the sector approach, managerial capacity at federal,
state and municipal levels can be fortified as part of basic education
investment projects rather than being treated in isolation. Initially, the
approach would be applied in the North and Centerwest regions for testing and
adjustment. Later, it could be extended to other regions. Meanwhile,
extensive sector work in education finance is under way on a collaborative
basis between the Bank and Brazilian authorities. Its scope extends beyond
the basic education subsector. However, this work is expected to provide the
analytic foundations for major policy reform in basic education finance which
would address the structural resource constraints currently plaguing the
system.
III. SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR URBAN BASIC EDUCATION IN NORTH AND CENTERWEST
A. Introduction
3.01      The proposed subsector project directly addresses the major policy
objectives for basic education defined by the Brazilian Government and agreed
upon with the Bank (para. 2.29). Specifically, the project would address
three objectives.
No. 1. Improvement in the quality and efficiency of existing primary
schools grades 1-4, by financing:
(a)  educational materials including textbooks; student, teacher
and classroom supplies; and library books;
13/ See Stephen Heyneman, "The Effect of Primary School Quality on Learning
Across 29 High and Low Income Countries." American Journal of Sociology,
Vol. 88, May 1983 and Impact Evaluation Research Proposal for Project in
Rural Basic Education Northeast, Brazil.
14/ Birdsall, Nancy and Jere R. Behrman, "The Quality of Schooling:
Quantity Alone is Misleading," American Economic Review (forthcoming).



- 14-
(b) the training of teachers for grades 1-4, school supervisors,
directors and cooks;
(c) the refurbishing of existing school facilities in disrepair;
(d) the construction of new classrooms and schools to absorb the
excess students using existing facilities; and
(e) the provision of furniture and equipment as needed for
existing and new facilities.
No. 2. Increase in the access to basic education for children Grades 1-4 by
financing the construction of new school facilities.
No. 3. Improved management capacity in the subsector by financing:
(a) long term planning at federal and state levels;
(b)  special projects for improving the quality and efficiency of
basic education;
(c) school location planning for siting of new schools;
(d) strengthening of state and municipal administrative
capacity; and
(e) project monitoring and evaluation.
The strategy of the subsector project would be:
(a)   to focus on two of the three most needy regions of the
country, the North and Centerwest; and
(b)   to limit investments to urban areas where the sector
approach can be tested, improved and later generalized to
apply to other areas and regions of the country.
3.02      To achieve the three main objectives of the subsector project,
there would be a five year investment program in each of the nine
participating states of the two regions, with annual projects presented in
each investment area and federal programs to expand institutional capacity.
B. Objective No. 1: Improvement of Educational Quality and
Efficiency in Grades 1 to 4 of Primary School
3.03      To accomplish the first objective, the subsector project would
focus on four key investment components: educational materials; in-service
training and teacher support services; student nutrition; and improving as
well as reducing excess-utilization of existing facilities.
1.   Educational Materials
3.04      The project would finance an integrated and complete packet of
educational materials for specific municipalities including:
(a)   Student Textbooks: A minimum of two books per student in Grades 1
and 2, and four books per student in Grades 3 and 4 in the areas of
basic curriculum: language, mathematics, social studies and
science;



- 15-
(b)   Student Learning Materials:  A basic student packet consisting of
paper, pencils and erasers, to cover minimum needs for a complete
school year for all students grades 1-4 in the program areas;
(c)   Teacher Materials:  Essential materials for teachers consisting of
class register, notebook, pencils, pen, chalk and ruler;
(d)   Classroom Materials: To assure that each classroom has minimum
learning resources, a classroom packet for grades 1 and 2 and
another for grades 3 and 4 have been specified consisting of:
children's literature; educational games; dictionaries, map,
scissors and a storage closet;
(e)   School Library:  Three types of school libraries would be
included: a permanent library collection of reference materials for
students and teachers in new schools or where physical space is
available in existing facilities; (b) traveling libraries which
would rotate among adjacent schools; and (c) libraries in large
schools forming a nucleus for surrounding schools;
(f)   Consumable School Materials:  To facilitate the purchase of school
consumables such as paper, pens, pencils and other items associated
with routine school administration, a small consumable materials
account would be established for the school, controlled by the
school director, for purchasing items on an as needed basis;
(g)   Statewide Textbook Program: The Foundation for Student Assistance
(FAE) has a well established statewide textbook program, the
Program for Basic Education Textbooks (PLIDEF). This program has
the same standards as those for subsector project specific
municipalities (see (a) preceding) and would be financed as part of
the subsector project; and
(h)   Classroom Textbook Bank:  The Textbook Bank Program (Banco do
Livro) would train teachers and students, as well as promote
community education regarding the conservation and reutilization of
school textbooks. The project would finance a local consultant to
develop and monitor training for the expansion of this program in
project areas.
The subsector project would utilize existing FAE procedures for preparation
and implementation of all the above mentioned subcomponents. The FAE
implementation team has been expanded from two to five technicians and would
require local consultant services to assist with the school libraries (about
50 months for a specialist in school libraries development); consumable
school materials (about 30 months) and the Textbook Bank (about 50 months).
Likewise, state implementation teams would need both federal and local
technical assistance (500 months for the nine states) for the implemen-
tation of these three subcomponents. The subsector project would finance the
purchase of already available educational materials; technical assistance
(approximately 560 months at federal, state, and municipal levels to be



- 16-
provided by FAE and local consultants) associated with preparation,
monitoring and evaluation of the component at federal and state levels;
training, about 135 months of fellowships for state and municipal personnel
associated with the implementation of the subcomponents and six months for
federal personnel; and the salaries of up to four additional personnel in
planning, finance or component-related actions needed at state level for
implementation during the period of the project.
2.   Training and Teacher Support Services
3.05      The subsector project would assist the Government in developing a
comprehensive strategy directed toward the upgrading of teachers and other
professionals in the North and Centerwest regions. This strategy is based on
minimum standards covering objectives and content of training activities,
unit cost parameters and cost-effective course design agreed upon with the
Bank during appraisal. Moreover, it comprises, for each participating state,
a sequential training approach built on the improvement and expansion of
existing programs also agreed upon during appraisal. Appropriate networking
of local institutions--training centers, teachers colleges, universities,
curriculum research agencies--would allow the maximization of training
capacities throughout the execution stages. These institutions would be
proposed by the states and approved by the Joao Pinheiro Institute for Human
Resources (IRHJP).
3.06      The training component would focus on:
(a)   short-term in-service teacher training courses organized at state
level by selected institutions (para. 3.05) with technical
assistance from the Joao Pinheiro Institute of Human Resources
(IRHJP) in specific priority skills including: (i) literacy and
numeracy in grades 1 and 2; (ii) use of textbooks and other
teaching materials; (iii) alternative teaching methods and
classroom organization: multigrade, group work, remedial and
individualized teaching techniques; (iv) school/community
interaction; and (v) implementation of the classroom Textbook Bank
(para. 3.04);
(b)   short-term training courses for school principals and supervisors
oriented toward (i) improving school administration practices,
(ii) initiating consumable materials budget, (iii) providing
pedagogical support for teachers, and (iv) creating a permanent
staff development environment in the school; and
(c)   initial and in-service training courses in hygiene and food-storage
for school meal cooks and supervisors.
IRHJP would provide technical assistance for preparation and implementation
and would oversee the supervision of all training activities.
3.07      The upgrading of teachers' conditions of service would occur
within the narrow limits imposed by the current stringent budgetary context.



- 17-
Agreement was reached during appraisal to link successful training completion
and minimum career benefits. Each municipality participating in the program
would present proof of an existing and enforced teachers' contract or statute
or a draft teachers' contract or statute for the municipal legislature's
approval by January 1986.
3.08      The proposed project would finance the costs of the training
programs which include fees of instructors and administrative staff and local
consultants (about 24 months at federal level) for software development;
production of training materials such as guides and pamphlets; travel, per
diems for trainers and trainees; and fellowships in training (36 months) for
state and municipal personnel in development and design of in-service teacher
training courses.
3.   Student Nutrition
3.09      Improvements in the supervision of the school meal program,
training of cooks and supervisors upgrading of existing, and provision of
new, school kitchens and equipment would be accomplished as part of the
training and school facilities components. Specific aspects of school
nutrition include:
(a)   Construction, Remodeling and Equipping of Feeding Facilities.  The
Foundation for Student Assistance (FAE) has established norms for
physical facilities and equipment essential for the hygienic
preparation of food. All schools in the selected project areas
would be brought up to these standards as well as new schools built
through the program. The project would finance construction and
equipping of these facilities; and
(b)   Training of School Feeding Program Staff.  The project would
finance the training of school cooks who prepare and serve school
meals and school meal supervisors who oversee operations of the
food program, promote nutrition education at school and in the
community and mobilize community participation in the food program.
4.   Improving Supervision of the School Nutrition Program
3.10      Supervision of the school nutrition program is essential to the
improvement of quality and efficiency. To assure this supervision, an
upgraded supervision plan, with visits by school nutrition program
supervisors to all schools in the selected project areas on a regular basis,
was agreed upon during appraisal. The supervision plan, by enabling
supervisors to travel as required, would encourage adherence to FAE norms set
forth in the FAE supervision handbook.
3.11      The school nutrition component would be coordinated by an FAE team
at the federal level and would use existing FAE personnel already operating
in each state. This team would work in conjunction with the implementation
teams for training (IRHJP) and construction (CEDATE) at federal and state
levels, providing technical assistance for the preparation and supervision of
school-feeding-program-related actions.



- 18-
3,12      Activities to be financed include: (a) remodeling, construction and
equipping of school kitchens for preparation of school meals in all existing
as well as new schools in selected project areas, to be accomplished through
the school construction component; (b) training of school cooks and school
nutrition program supervisors--via the training and teacher support services
component; and (c) travel, and subsistence allowances for the upgrading of
the current school nutrition program supervision network through project
aclministration as well as the institution-building component.
5.   Refurbishing of Existing Schools in Poor Condition.
3.13      To complement the software inputs and utilization of existing
school facilities, the proposed project would finance the costs of
refurbishing, furnishing and equipping inadequate classrooms in existing
schools in accordance with criteria agreed upon with the Bank and the needs
determined for each project school. In selected schools, the project would
include the replacement of some classrooms. Needs would be determined based
on the information derived from school mapping (para. 3.16). Refurbishing
costs are not expected to exceed 35% of the cost of replacing the schools.
Furniture and equipment are estimated at 30% of total refurbishing costs. A
property inventory of the schools to be remodeled as well as cost estimates
are being undertaken as part of the school mapping exercise. The refurbish-
ing component would be coordinated by the Center for Educational Support and
Development (CEDATE). CEDATE would provide necessary technical assistance to
the states for identification of refurbishing needs and preparation of
projects. State and municipal authorities would be responsible for executing
the projects while CEDATE would supervise implementation.
6. Reducing Excess Utilization of Existing Facilities
3.14      To reduce the number of shifts per school day to a maximum of two
so that more teaching and learning time is available, the program would
finance the cost of constructing, furnishing and equipping new state and
municipal schools. These schools would be located in the poor urban areas of
project cities where current facilities are operating with three or more
shifts daily. Costs of replacing existing facilities which are presently
overutilized are estimated at approximately 20% of total new construction.
CEDATE would provide the necessary technical assistance to states for the
identification of overutilized facilities and the preparation of construction
projects. States, however, would execute these projects under CEDATE's
supervision.
C. Objective No. 2: Expanding Access to Basic Education
3.15      Expanding access to basic education would proceed on the basis of
careful analysis of local demand in the selected urban areas. The means to
achieve the objective would consist of:



- 19-
(a)   conducting a school mapping study that includes (i) identification
of the demand for additional school places (as well as determining
the need for remodeling existing schools (para. 3.13); and (ii) the
development of school prototype designs for the cities involved in
the program; and
(b)   providing additional school facilities in project areas for grades
1 to 4.
1.   School Mapping Study
3.16      The nine participating North and Centerwest states, with CEDATE's
technical assistance, are carrying out a school mapping study of urban areas
already selected for the project. This study collects data, both for
determining the location of new schools and for improving standards and
school designs. Criteria for location and designs were agreed upon with the
Borrower during appraisal, and any change would be subject to Bank approval.
The project would finance all expenditures including transportation,
equipment, per diems, and consultant fees associated with the study in all
the selected cities of the nine states. The satisfactory completion of the
school mapping and the prototype designs would be a condition for the
approval of construction projects by CEDATE for new classrooms. A school
maintenance program would also be presented to CEDATE as a condition for
approval of projects for refurbishing of existing classrooms in each selected
urban area, as indicated in the manuals available in files.
2.   Providing Additional School Facilities for Grades 1 to 4
3.17      While priority in the subsector project would be given first to
overutilized current capacity (paras.3.13-3.14), the construction, equipping
and furnishing of additional facilities to expand access to the first four
grades of primary school would also be financed. Expanding capacity would
proceed on the basis of careful school location planning as a result of the
school mapping exercise (para.3.16) in the selected areas of the project.
The typical new school would have a maximum of ten classrooms, each
accommodating 40 students; a small area for administration; and a canteen
including food storage area, multipurpose area and washrooms. Schools would
be planned and located to operate on a maximum of two daytime shifts. This
component would be coordinated by CEDATE under the same arrangements as for
refurbishing and replacement (paras. 3.13-3.14). Construction, equipment and
furniture for additional facilities would be financed.
D. Objective No. 3: Building Institutional Management and Investment
Capacity for the Basic Education Subsector at
Municipal, State and Federal Levels of Government
3.18      To build managerial and investment capacity at municipal, state and
federal levels, the project would support general lines of action: (a) the
establishment of a Long Term Strategic Planning team within SEAC/SEPS and



- 20-
mini-teams at state level in the Secretariat of Education (SEC); (b) the
selective support and evaluation of several special educational projects with
high potential for solving specific problems plaguing the subsector; (c) the
strengthening of state and municipal educational authorities capacity in
specific areas of project implementation; and (d) the monitoring and
evaluation of project implementation and project impact.
1.   Long Term Planning and Pre-investment Activities
3.19      Building up a strategy for long term planning capacity is one of
SEPS' management priorities (see para. 2.29). A special task force was
appointed by resolution to operate under the responsibility of the
Subsecretariat of Coordination (SEAC). Its main assignment, to be carried
out with Bank assistance, is to strengthen sectoral planning at federal and
state levels. The Government and the Bank have reached agreement on detailed
terms of reference and on a plan of activities for the first 12 months of
implementation. This strategy would focus action on upgrading basic
educational statistics and developing social demand indicators relevant to
educational planning; mastering the most common educational planning models;
improving unit cost analysis; simulating the implications for alternative
teacher wage policies on state and municipal budget trends; and preparing a
study of educational imbalances and disparities. The loan would finance the
salaries of three technicians, one coordinator and one support staff,
technical assistance (20 months local, and 16 months international), local
travel per diems; 10 months of fellowships and studies.
3.20      To assure funds for the preparation of future investment projects,
the loan would also finance special studies (to be agreed upon between the
Government and the Bank during the course of project implementation); MEC
preparation activities and technical assistance.
2.   Special Projects in Educational Quality
3.21      The program would support selected special projects,in the North
and Centerwest regions likely to have a high future payoff to the quality of
basic education. These projects would be in one of four priority areas:
(a) teaching literacy in grades 1 and 2; (b) techniques for training
untrained teachers in grades 1 and 2; (c) increasing the time available for
student learning; and (d) improving administration at the school level.
Terms of reference for the National Institute for Educational Research
(INEP), which is responsible for managing the component and detailing
procedures for selection, monitoring and evaluation of specific projects,
have been agreed upon with the Bank. Selected projects would have a high
potential for replicability across the subsector and would be evaluated
closely for their future investment potential. The project would finance
technical assistance for the special projects (local, about 36 months);
fellowships and study tours for personnel of selected special projects
(about 12 months); and the travel, per diem, and salary of one INEP
technician responsible for administration of the component.
3.   Strengthening State and Municipal Educational Capacity
3.22      To build institutional capacity at state and municipal levels, the
project would finance (a) regular training and technical assistance (63
months) for monitoring of the physical implementation and 63 months for



- 21-
financial aspects of project implementation for state implementation
teams 15/; (b) technical/professional training for state and municipal
personnel directly involved in the preparation and implementation of projects
in any of the program's component areas including fellowships and study tours
(180 months) as well as seminars and workshops; (c) salaries of up to five
additional state and/or municipal personnel needed for program implementation
and/or salary complements for five existing personnel; (d) the purchase of
equipment and consumable materials necessary for implementation; and (e) the
strengthening of project area state and municipal educational authorities
through the development and/or revision of teachers' statutes (para. 3.07);
the upgrading of school supervision; and other actions to be agreed upon with
the Bank during the course of implementation.
3.23      An administration specialist working as part of a Program
Management Team (PMT) would be responsible for organizing technical
assistance and training for (a) in the preceding paragraph on a semi-annual
basis, and for technically appraising state requests for items (b) and (c)
above as presented in annual state programs in accordance with criteria
agreed upon between the Bank and the Government. As part of administrative
costs, the subsector project would finance the necessary technical assistance
(126 months), fellowships (180 months), consultant services, travel expenses
and material costs incurred by the administration specialist in the
preparation, appraisal and supervision of this component.
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation
3.24      The project would strengthen the capacity for both monitoring and
evaluation at the state and federal levels. A monitoring system, which would
provide regular information about project activities to state implementation
units, to the federal agencies and to the project management team, would be
designed and implemented by the project management team in collaboration with
states and agencies. Reports would be prepared triannually by the agencies
and by the PMT. These would be reviewed with state authorities and also sent
to the Bank. These reports would contribute to the annual implementation
review to be held jointly with the Government and the Bank (para 3.26). To
assist the Government with project monitoring, the project would finance
technical assistance (5 months international and 15 months local); up to 27
months of fellowships (three months per state) to train SEC personnel in
monitoring, materials, equipment (including computerization), travel and per
diem. A proposed design of the monitoring system has been reviewed with the
Bank and an implementation schedule agreed to.
3.25      The project evaluation system, which would be separated from but
coordinated with the monitoring system, would have three components: (i)
regular assessment of project results; (ii) special studies to investigate
specific questions in depth; and (iii) building evaluation capacity at both
state and federal levels. An evaluation unit would be established or
15/ State implementation teams consist of three to five technicians,
including an educational planner, financial analyst/accountant and
educator(s).



- 22-
strengthened in each SEC. These units, coordinated by the PMT evaluation
specialist, would annually assess progress in project areas towards meeting
major project objectives. In addition, the units would conduct special
studies, in particular investigating questions that arise from analyses of
both monitoring and evaluation data. Such studies might include
investigations of the household cost of primary school attendance, the
quality and conditions of use of textbooks, community attitudes towards
schools and schooling, teacher criteria and practices for promotion
decisions, and others. In collaboration with the SEC units, the federal
evaluation staff would prepare an annual report for the annual implementation
review (para 3.26). To assist the Government with evaluation, the project
would finance technical assistance (60 months), travel, per diem, materials,
supplies and data processing. A proposed evaluation plan has been reviewed
by the Bank and an implementation plan for the first year agreed to.
3.26      A joint Government-Bank implementation review of the project would
be held annually, in June/July. The review would be based on monitoring
reports (para 3.24) and the annual evaluation report (para. 3.25).
Participants would include personnel from SECs, technical agencies, PMT
staff, and the Bank. In preparation for the annual review, states would hold
a similar review, with municipal participation. To support the review, the
project would finance travel, per diem, and materials expenses. Organization
of the federal-level review would be the responsibility of the Project
Management Team.
IV. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Overview
4.01      An appropriate management structure is already in place and
functioning to assure speedy and efficient implementation of the subsector
project.  The elements of this structure include:
(a)   a subsector approach to project planning, appraisal and
supervision;
(b)   a well defined organizational structure for the project;
(c)   arrangements for staffing and staff training needed to implement
the project;
(d)   well defined and tested implementation procedures;
(e)   criteria for approval of state and municipal projects;
(f)   criteria and procedures for allocation of funds among projects; and
(g)   a phased implementation program.
I
B. Subsector Approach
4.02      The proposed subsector project in basic education for the North and
Centerwest regions of Brazil would consist of (a) national programs in long
term planning and preinvestment, special projects, institution-building and
project evaluation; and (b) state investment programs serving as a framework
for specific projects in the areas of construction and equipment, training
and teacher support services, and educational materials.



- 23-
4.03      MEC would act as the institutional intermediary for subsector
project management. A project management team based in MEC would be
responsible for managing the project at the federal level; coordinating and
mobilizing technical assistance of the specialized federal agencies to the
participating states; and appraising state programs and projects in
accordance with established technical criteria and procedures agreed upon
between the Government and the Bank during appraisal. These criteria and
procedures are contained in separate manuals (available in files). The
project management team would also play a major role in monitoring
implementation of the subsector project.
4.04      The subsector approach to lending provides the means for building
institutional capacity and an educationally based approach to investment
within MEC. MEC has defined specific policies to guide investments within
the framework of its Third Sectoral Development Plan (para. 2.29). It has
established criteria and procedures for identifying, preparing, and
appraising state projects. Criteria have also been developed for
distributing investment funds among the nine participating states as well as
between national and state programs. These criteria and procedures would
first be applied to the regional program in the North and Centerwest and
could later easily be extended to the entire basic education subsector as MEC
gains additional experience. Moreover, together with the Bank, MEC has
developed an investment plan for the subsector and specified financial
mechanisms for the transfer of investment resources to the state level.
4.05      At the state level, the subsector approach would also expand both
investment and institutional capacity. Through carefully prepared and tested
procedures and substantial technical assistance and training, the states
would develop their specific projects from a general five-year investment
plan for the subsector project. This process would help to institutionalize
the project cycle for the preparation, appraisal and implementation of
projects at state and municipal levels and would expand state and municipal
technical capacity.
C. Organization
4.06      MEC has developed a subsector organizational structure (see
Diagram A at federal, state and municipal levels to manage and implement the
subsector project. At the federal level, the Program Council would be headed
by the Secretary of Primary and Secondary Education (SEPS) with
representation from the Directors of each of the specialized federal agencies
involved in implementation: (a) FAE for educational materials; (b) FAE/IRHJP
for training and teacher support services; (c) CEDATE for construction and
equipment; (d) FAE/PNAE for school nutrition; (e) SEAC for Long Term Planning
and Preinvestment; (f) INEP for special projects; (g) the Project Manager,
and (h) representative from the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN).
4.07      The Program Council would (a) approve annual operating plans of the
federal agencies overseeing project execution; (b) review project implementa-
tion on an annual basis by participating in the annual project implementation
review (para 3.26); (c) review and make recommendations to the Secretary of



- 24-
SEPS regarding special implementation problems on an ad hoc basis; and (d)
make policy recommendations to the Secretary of SEPS as needed. The Council
could be convened by request of any of its members. It was created by
ministerial resolution as of November 1983. The Secretary of SEPS would
approve all state and municipal projects presented for annual financing. The
tasks of preparing reports, disbursement applications, budget proposals, and
project monitoring and coordinating activities of the federal agencies would
be delegated by the Secretary of SEPS to the Program Management Team in
COEPE (the Coordinating Unit for Primary Education).
4.08      A Program Management Team (PMT) has already been established in
COEPE. This team is headed by the Project Manager (appointed by ministerial
resolution prior to negotiations) and has the responsibility of:
(a) coordinating and reviewing the annual operational plans and the
activities of the specialized agencies; (b) appraising annual state programs
in accordance with established criteria; (c) supervising institution-building
activities at state and municipal levels; (d) monitoring the implementation
of the program; and (e) providing the Program Council and Secretary of SEPS
with information necessary to carry out their functions as described in
paragraph 4.07.
4.09      The detailed responsibilities 16/ of the six agencies handling
program implementation are indicated in the program administration manual
available in files and have been described in Chapter III. Briefly, they are
as follows:
(a)   FAE:  would be responsible for assisting states in the preparation
of the educational materials component, appraising the state and
municipal educational materials projects, and monitoring the
implementation of this component;
(b)   FAE/IRHJP:  would be responsible for assisting the states with the
preparation of all training programs for the training component,
appraising the state and municipal training projects and monitoring
the implementation of the component;
(c)   CEDATE:  would be responsible for assisting states in the
preparation of the school facilities component, including school
mapping, civil works, equipment and furniture; appraising state
and municipal projects; and monitoring the implementation of this
component;
16/ All terms of reference, which include the criteria and guidelines for
the appraisal of specific components (educational materials, training,
school facilities, long term planning and special projects), are
available in files.



- 25-
(d)   FAE/PNAE:  would be responsible for coordinating with IRHJP and
CEDATE in providing technical assistance to states in the prepara-
tion of school nutrition activities subsumed in the training and
school facilities components as well as appraising specific school
nutrition actions presented by the states and municipalities;
(e)   SEAC:  would be responsible for executing the Long Term Planning
and Pre-investment Component in accordance with the terms of
reference agreed upon between MEC and the Bank; and
(f)   INEP:  would be responsible for monitoring the implementation of
the special projects component in accordance with terms of
reference for this component agreed upon between MEC and the Bank.
4.10      At the state level, the State Secretary of Education would chair an
Advisory Council comprised of the state level program manager, the represent-
atives from the participating municipalities and the chief planning officer
of SEC. This Council would (a) review and approve the projects prepared for
appraisal by MEC; (b) take necessary decisions to expedite the execution of
the state projects; (c) review program implementation on a quarterly basis;
and (d) review the selection of additional municipalities for inclusion in
the program after the first year of implementation.
4.11      A state level implementation team would be designated by the State
Secretary of Education. The state team would consist of members from various
sections of SEC and other agencies involved in project execution. Team
members would dedicate full time to project implementation; however, they
would remain in their regular units in the SEC. The responsibility of the
state implementation teams would include (a) identification of projects;
(b) the preparation of projects; (c) the execution of projects when
appropriate; (d) the monitoring of project implementation; and (e) the
preparation of implementation progress reports for the federal agencies
supervising project implementation. These teams would be in place and
functioning by negotiations. Municipal level implementation teams would be
appointed by the municipal mayor.
D. Staffing
4.12      At both state and federal levels, the subsector project pursues a
strategy of utilizing existing organizational structures. The staffing of
the subsector project would follow the same line of action. At the federal
level, a core Program Management Team has been working on preparation of the
program for more than one year. This team is headed by the Project Manager
and would include (a) a general coordinator; (b) nine technical specialists,
with at least one in each area: teacher training, instructional materials,
planning, management and project related training, evaluation and
administration; (c) a programmer to supervise state programs; (d) an
accountant; (e) three support staff. (Specific qualifications are included
in the administration manual available in files.)



- 26-
4.13      Technical teams already exist within the specialized federal
agencies and have recently been expanded to include the necessary technical
specialists for project implementation (the full staff plan is available in
the administration manual available in files). At the state and municipal
levels, project implementation teams, which include a planner and at least
two technical specialists, have already been appointed. The project would
finance the salaries of additional staff as needed to complete the staff plan
at the federal level (up to 30), up to five in each state and up to two in
each municipality.   Moreover, a salary scale has already been agreed upon
between the Bank and the Government, which would be the basis for Bank
financing of salary complements of existing staff whose salaries are below
the agreed upon standards. Administration overheads associated with project
implementation at all levels would be financed from loan funds. A breakdown
of technical assistance by component is available in the working papers in
files. Specialized federal agencies would be responsible for training state
and municipal level staff in the application of project procedures. An
operations' manual for use by the Secretariats of Education and a 1984 staff
training plan would be ready by the project launch workshop, July 1984, to be
followed by a training seminar to orient state personnel.
E. Implementation Procedures
4.14      The Ministry of Education has developed, tested and refined a set
of implementation procedures for the subsector project based on the already
existing project cycle for appraisal of state and municipal projects
presented annually. This project cycle was revised during the preparation
and appraisal of the subsector project as a result of the testing of these
procedures on three state programs (Diagram B). Detailed procedures have
been elaborated in the Subsector Project Management Manual (available in
files); however, a summary is presented in the following paragraphs.
1.   Identification
4.15      Each state and federal territory has prepared a five-year invest-
ment plan. These investment plans identify macro financial and physical
targets for each project component in selected municipalities over the
five-year investment period. Three investment plans were jointly appraised
by the Bank and MEC; the remaining were appraised by MEC and have been
presented to the Bank. State investment plans would serve as guidelines for
the identification and preparation of specific projects on an annual basis.
They would also be used by MEC to check for consistency between short-term
(annual) and longer-term (five-year) targets proposed by states. The
identification phase of the project cycle would focus on generating projects
at the municipal level (Diagram C). Two identification instruments have been
developed: (a) the school mapping exercise to locate the need for school
remodeling and the demand for building additional school facilities; and
(b) a micro-planning exercise for needs identification of training and
education materials for project areas (available in files). Identification
activities would be carried out by municipal and state teams (para. 4.11)
with technical assistance from specialized federal agencies (para. 4.13).



- 27-
The national programs have been identified by MEC. Long-term planning
activities are already underway including a comprehensive staff development
program. The identification and selection of special projects for future
investment would follow eligibility criteria already approved by the Bank.
2.   Preparation
4.16      The state and municipal Secretariats of Education, working in
conjunction with each of the specialized executing agencies in the project,
would prepare their joint annual applications. Local staff would have to be
trained continuosly in preparation activities through annual seminars
sponsored by the project management team and including the other federal
agencies. Training modules for project preparation at the state level are
being developed and tested in two pilot states. Annual preparation
activities would result in detailed specification of projects ready for
implementation. The responsibility for the preparation of national programs
(Long Term Planning, Special Projects, etc.) rests with the specialized
federal unit or agency in charge of each program. International and local
consultancy provided by the project would be used when necessary to assist
MEC in carrying out this responsibility (paras 3.04, 3.08, 3.16).
3.   Appraisal
4.17      An initial screening of the annual state and municipal projects
presented for appraisal would be handled by the project management team to
determine that applications are complete, that project areas are selected in
accordance with criteria and that the project is consistent with plans in the
state's five-year investment project for basic education. Following the
initial screening, the applications would be distributed among the
specialized agencies for appraisal of each specific component in accord-
ance with the technical criteria established by the project. FAE/FENAME
would appraise the education materials component; FAE/IRHJP would appraise
the training component; CEDATE would appraise school mapping and the school
construction component; FAE/PNAE would appraise the school nutrition compo-
nent; and the PMT would appraise the administration component. Subsequent to
the component-specific appraisals, the PMT, together with the agencies, would
appraise the project as an integrated package with criteria related to
implementation feasibility. The appraisal process, like the identification
and preparation processes would require field visits, and funds would be
allocated in project administration to cover these costs. The Bank would
also spot-appraise one or two state programs annually on a random basis. The
national programs require a one-time rather than annual appraisal. The Long
Term Planning program has been prepared by SEAC/MEC and appraised by the
Bank. Other pre-investment studies would be prepared by SEAC and appraised
by the Bank. During the first year of implementation, special projects would
be appraised by an inter-agency committee of MEC convoked by the Project
Manager, including the INEP Coordinator and at least two technical
specialists, and would subsequently be approved by the Bank.



- 28-
4.   Approval
4.18      Once the appraisal process is completed, the Project Manager would
present the state applications to the Secretary of SEPS for approval. The
Secretary would either ratify the request as presented or make recommenda-
tions for modification. After approval, funds could be released to the
states. The Bank would review ex-post a random selection of appraised
projects during supervision visits.
5.   Supervision/Implementation
4.19      The Program Management Team, together with the executing agencies,
would oversee the implementation of state and municipal projects, including
the provision of technical assistance by the specialized agencies as required
by the implementation process. The PMT would also supervise the performance
of the specialized federal agencies. The role of the Bank would be to
monitor the quality of the execution of the project as a whole, particularly
those aspects which might involve policy changes; review implementation
progress on an annual basis with the Program Council; make random field
checks on the implementation of each specific component as well as review the
appraised state projects; and review annually the progress of the Special
Projects, Long Term Planning, Strengthening of State and Municipal
Authorities, and the Evaluation components. During the first year of
implementation, intensive Bank supervision would be required, including a
training mission to launch the project.
6.   Monitoring and Evaluation
4.20      Project monitoring and evaluation have already been described in
paras. 3.24 to 3.26. The annual reports would be prepared by the federal
agencies and the PMT. These reports would also be sent to the Bank. To link
project monitoring with implementation evaluation, an annual implementation
review (together) with the Bank, federal agencies, Program Council, and state
and municipal teams, would be held each June or July. Project evaluation
would be coordinated by an evaluation specialist attached directly to the
Program Management Team. Evaluation capacity would be built in each State
Secretariat of Education emphasizing the capacity to assess regular project
results. Terms of reference and a timetable for 1984 monitoring and
evaluation activities have already been agreed upon with the Bank.
F. Criteria for the Approval of State Projects
4.21      MEC would approve the state project applications on the basis of
three criteria:
(a)   relevance to the subsector policy objectives;
(b)   feasibility of the proposed projects; and
(c)   efficiency in the use of program resources.
Relevance criteria focus on the degree of coherence between proposed actions
and policy objectives as spelled out in the subsector investment plan.
Both the individual project activities and the specific mix of components



- 29-
would have to address key issues and overtly contribute to reaching project
targets as formulated in each state's policy documents. Feasibility relates
to operational criteria critical to the timely implementation of the proposed
package of activities. It presupposes a realistic assessment of available
resources at the state level: trained technical staff, administration and
managerial arrangements, prompt availability of federal counterpart funds in
accordance with the proposed disbursement schedule, production of legal
reforms, and physical capacity of local executing agencies. Detailed
criteria are elaborated in the Subsector Project Administration Manual and
documents for each component. Furthermore, state and municipal Secretariats
of Education would have to demonstrate their ability to meet the recurrent
costs likely to be generated by the proposed actions. MEC would have to
ascertain that the federal agencies are prepared to provide the technical
assistance required by the states' schedule of activities. Efficiency
pertains to the adequate utilization of project funds following technical
standards that have been established by each of the specialized federal
agencies to appraise subprojects. The project manuals contain a set of
average indicators and the range of variation allowed between states. These
criteria encompass construction and equipment standards; physical facilities
use factors; teacher/student ratios; minimum number of hours per school day;
content of educational materials packages; textbooks utilization factors;
standard training course objectives and duration; and unit costs parameters.
These indicators were designed and tried out during project appraisal by the
federal agencies involved to ensure that maximum efficiency would be reached
in applying project funds. In addition, state and municipal key personnel
would have undergone an intensive training program in the application of such
indicators in concrete situations.
G. Criteria and Procedures for Allocating Project Funds
4.22      Criteria and procedures for the allocation of project funds have
been established including (a) the distribution of funds between the
national/regional and state programs, and (b) the distribution of state
program funds among the participating states. These criteria have been
developed in line with the policy orientation of the subsector project to
assure that resources are invested in accordance with project priorities.
These criteria have been agreed upon by the Bank and the MEC and would be
modified only by mutual agreement of the two parties.
1.   Distribution of Funds
4.23      Approximately 92% of the project loan would be directed to state
investment programs while 8% would be allocated to project administration and
national programs in (a) Long Term Planning and Preinvestment; (b) Regional
Pilot Projects; and (c) Monitoring and Evaluation. This arrangement is in
keeping with the major project objective of improving the quality and
efficiency of basic education in the participating states of the North and
Centerwest regions. Distribution of funds among the state programs is based
on a formula which is inversely related to the per capita income in each
state and directly related to the actual schoQl age population, seven to 14
years. This method has the effect of redistributing resources from more to



- 30-
less prosperous states relative to the size of the school age population. It
has been discussed and agreed upon between the federal and state governments
participating.
2.   Selection of Municipalities
4.24      Basic criteria have been agreed upon between the Government and the
Bank for defining a universe of 85 municipalities in the North and Centerwest
regions eligible for participation in the subsector project. Included are
all municipalities with a population greater than 20,000, of which at least
50% is urban and whose rate of growth between 1970 and 1980 has been greater
than 4% (the average for Brazil). 17/ From this group of eligible munici-
palities, a second tier selection would be made giving first priority to
those municipalities which rank highest in (a) repetition in grades 1 and 2;
(b) dropout in grades 1 to 4; (c) intensity of the use of school space; and
(d) lowest in net enrollment rates for the school age population 7 to 14
years. All eligible municipalities in the first tier selection must be below
the state average on the aforementioned indicators in order to be part of the
second tier screening.
4.25      Because eligible municipalities would vary greatly in the size of
their urban populations, program coverage in each municipality has been
defined as follows:
(a)   in municipalities with less than 35,000 inhabitants, all students
in urban areas (both municipal and state schools) in grades 1 to 4
should benefit from specific actions including (i) full coverage
with respect to educational materials; (ii) no school o erating
with more than two shifts daily and a standard of 1.2 m2 to 1.5 m2
per student; and (iii) all teachers, supervisors, directors and
administrators (state and municipal) to receive training under the
program; and
(b)   in municipalities with more than 35,000 inhabitants, micro regions
would be selected from the larger urban population. The selection
of these micro regions would be made using the same educational
criteria as applied in paragraph 4.24 preceding.
Ultimately, the availability of resources to the state would limit the number
of municipalities and micro regions selected. The mix of investment actions
- educational materials, training and school facilities - would vary from
municipality to municipality depending upon the investment funds needed to
meet the standards detailed in (a) preceding. A ceiling of about 55% would
17/ A list of municipalities eligible at the time of appraisal is included
in the project administration manual; however, during the life of the
subsector project, other municipalities might become eligible for
inclusion. Adequate documentation must be provided to demonstrate
eligibility.



- 31-
apply to the additional school facilities category to assure adequate
investment in educational quality inputs in keeping with the emphasis of the
program.
H. Phased Implementation
4.26      To facilitate execution of the project, a phased implementation
approach has been designed. This includes (a) the pilot implementation of
educational materials and training components in two states as of March 1984;
(b) accelerated implementation of the educational materials, training and
institution building components during the first two years of execution; (c)
the execution of school remodeling during the first two years of implementa-
tion; and (d) the execution of new construction of school facilities
beginning only in the second year of implementation. This phasing would
facilitate project start-up and would also limit recurrent costs generated by
the project due to new construction to the later period of implementation
(years three through five).
V. SUBSECTOR PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCES
A. Costs Financed
5.01      Costs are defined as the total MEC investment program for basic
education in the project states for the years 1984-1990, of which the
proposed loan would finance a part. The volume of the investment program
would be sufficient to effect important structural changes and improvements
in the subsector of basic education. The investment program is financially
feasible because it is based on expected budgetary allocations to MEC for the
basic education subsector during the next five years. In addition, the
investment plan is economical because it is based on changes in MEC's
operational procedures and criteria for allocating funds, which would
introduce greater efficiency in the sector.
B. Investment Program
5.02      The 1984-1990 investment program for basic education is tentatively
estimated at about US$61.9 million net of contingencies and US$80.0 million
with contingencies. The breakdown of the investment plan components and
types of expenditure are summarized in Table 5.1 following.
C. Basis of Cost Estimates
5.03      Base costs refer to prices estimated as of appraisal, September
1983. Construction costs for school facilities have been estimated on the
basis of some simplified and functional designs which are being developed in
the project states. Base costs would range from US$125/m2 to US$175/mZ;
these costs are based on current construction costs in the project area.
Furniture and equipment costs are estimated at 10% and 4% respectively of new
construction and at the estimated replacement costs of specific items for
existing facilities. Educational material costs are based upon unit costs
for the same type of materials used by FAE in the PLIDEF program.



- 32-
Table 5.1
Project Cost Summary
US$ Million         % of
Foreign   % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Base Costs
A. Improvement Quality
1. States                      4.3      0.8     5.1    15.0        7.7
2. Municipal Programs         16.9      2.8    19.7    14.2        30.1
3. School Facilities           9.9      1.1    11.0    10.0        16.8
Sub-Total Improvement Quality    31.1       4.7    35.8    13.0        54.7
B. Expanding Capacity
1. Additional Facilities      18.4      2.1    20.5    10.2       31.4
Sub-Total Expanding Capacity       18.4     2.1    20.5    10.2        31.4
C. Building Institutional
Management
1.  Long-Term Planning         0.5      0.0     0.5      8.7       0.7
2.  Pre-Investment             0.5      0.0     0.5      5.0       0.8
3.  Evaluation                 0.5      0.0     0.5      5.0        1.8
4.  Special Projects           0.5      0.0     0.5      0.0       0.3
5. Strengthen Local
Administration           1.5      0.0     1.5     0.0
6.  Administration             1.8      0.3     2.1      8.2       3.4
Sub-Total Building Institutional
Management                        5.3     0.3      5.7     7.3        6.1
Total Baseline Costs               54.8     7.1    62.0    12.2       100.0
Physical Contingencies            5.6     0.8     6.4    12.2        10.0
Price Contingencies              10.2     1.3    11.5    16.3        12.2
Total Project Costs                70.7     9.2    79.9    12.6       122.2
Front-End Fee on Loan                       0.1      0.1
Total Fil:ancing Required                           80.0



- 33-
Training estimates are based upon a detailed breakdown of requirements for
each type of course in the states where they are likely to be conducted.
Technical assistance costs for external consultants are based upon an average
of US$8,600 per specialist-month, plus international travel costs averaging
US$2,500 per individual. Local consultancies are estimated at rates ranging
from US$1,500 per month to US$4,500 per month, based upon current costs of
local firms and institutions. The costs of fellowships, which are expected
to be mainly short-term training and study tours abroad, are based upon an
average of US$3,000 per staff-month plus US$2,500 travel costs per
individual. Project administration costs are based upon appropriate private
salary scales for such qualified people plus normal office costs.
D. Contingency Allowance
5.04      Physical contingencies amount to US$6.2 million or 10% of the base
costs. Price contingencies would amount to US$12.5 million or 20.3% of the
base costs plus physical contingencies. Annual price contingencies for civil
works, furniture, equipment and education materials are calculated at 7%, 6%,
and 5%, for 1984, 1985-1986, and 1987-1990 respectively. Price contingencies
for technical assistance studies and administration are calculated at 5% per
annum over the investment period.
E. Foreign Exchange Component
5.05      The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$9.5 million
or equivalent to approximately 12% of the total subsector investment costs
including contingencies. Foreign exchange costs are estimated on the basis
of: 10% for civil works and furniture; 15% for equipment and educational
materials; 25% for technical assistance; and 5% for training, studies and
project administration.
F. Recurrent Cost Implications
5.06      Because of the special nature of the project (subsector lending
modality), it is not possible at this stage to assess exactly the total
incremental cost likely to be generated by the project inputs at the
municipal level. In fact, the final volume of inputs at the municipal level
would be decided in the course of project implementation. Initial estimates
based on the stated five-year investment plans vary from 6% to 10% over 1983
expenditures when all investments are fully realized. Increases would be
limited because the need for additional teachers has been minimized by
priority given to investment in quality and efficiency over expanding
capacity. Moreover, already contracted teachers would be available to teach
in replacement classrooms built to reduce overcrowding. However, recurrent
cost implications of each annual state program would be analyzed during the
yearly appraisal process (para. 4.17). The recurrent costs to be generated
by each set of annual investment projects would have to be within established
parameters. These costs would be generated primarily by an increase in
educational materials and teachers' salaries. Incremental costs due to
teachers' salaries would not begin to have an impact until after the third
and fourth year of the program. Full incremental recurrent costs due to
educational materials would be assumed by the state only after the project is
completed (see Table 5.4). Incremental costs generated by maintenance of
additional physical facilities would be absorbed exclusively at state level.



- 34-
G. Procurement
5.07      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows;
Table 5.2: Methods of Procurement by Project Category
Procurement Method         Total Excluding
Project Category            ICB      LCB     Other      N.A.     Contingencies
(US$ Millions)
Civil Works                        22.50     4.00                      26.50
Furniture                           2.50     0.60                       3.10
Equipment                           1.30     0.35                       1.65
Educational Materials              21.20     1.00                      22.20
Training                                                1.45            1.45
Technical Assistance                                    1.19            1.19
Studies                                                 1.18            1.18
Administration                                          4.23            4.23
Total                   47.50      5.95      8.05           61.50
1.   Construction
5.08      Civil works contracts totaling about US$26.5 million, excluding
contingencies, are relatively small (average cost of about US$300,000) and
comprise the construction of new classrooms; the repair of existing class-
rooms in poor condition; small library/office/storage deposits, and the
provision of sanitary and canteen facilities for schools. Therefore, most
civil works contracts for new construction would follow LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, and interested foreign contractors would not be
precluded from bidding. Remodeling of existing schools would follow the
same procedures as those for new construction whenever practicable. Some
remodeling (about 15% of total cost) may have to be carried out on a force
account basis due to small and dispersed character of these actions;
however, the amount involved would not exceed US$4.0 million (excluding
contingencies). Civil works designs would be done by MEC and/or consultant
architects on the basis of agreed upon educational and architectural
standards.
2.   Furniture and Equipment
5.09      Almost all equipment and furniture would be unsophisticated in
nature. The cost is estimated at about US$30,000 for complete basic school
grades 1-4. It would not be practicable to group sizable packages for ICB
because of the number of states and municipalities involved and the
differences in phasing of project execution. Moreover, Brazil has a highly
competitive industry and, therefore, LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank
would be followed; however, interested foreign manufacturers/suppliers would
not be precluded from bidding. Items that cannot be grouped into economical
packages would be procured through local shopping and would not, in
aggregate, exceed US$600,000 and US$350,000 for furniture and equipment
respectively.



- 35-
3.   Educational Materials
5.10      Textbooks, teachers' guides, student materials and printing
services would be procured by local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Brazil has a well developed and competitive
printing industry; nevertheless, here again, interested foreign suppliers
would not be precluded from bidding. Items not suitable for procurement
through LCB would be procured through local shopping but would not, in
aggregate, exceed US$1.0 million.
4.   Contract Review
5.11      The nature of the project makes it unlikely that many big contracts
would be let. Government bid procedures have proved effective, in past
education projects, in procuring civil works and goods at competitive prices
and with reasonable speed. Awards, therefore, would not be referred to the
Bank for prior review. SECs would retain bid evaluations and contracts of
awards less than US$300,000 equivalent for random ex-post review by Bank
staff during the annual project implementation review. Contracts in excess
of US$300,000 equivalent would be submitted to the Bank at the time of
disbursement application.
H. Financing and Bank Contribution
5.12      The proposed financing plan for the investment programs is outlined
below:
Table 5.3: Overall Financing Plan (1984-1990)
Sources of Finance
Education       Treasury  Proposed
Type of Program           Salary Tax        Funds   IBRD Loan       Total
Institution Building         2.3                        2.3          4.6
State                        1.2            3.0         4.2          8.4
Municipal                   33.5                        33.5        67.0
TOTAL               37.0            3.0        40.0        80.0
5.13      The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million (50% of the total project
cost net of taxes) would meet 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 43% of
the local costs; the Federal Government would finance the remaining cost of
US$40.0 million (50%).
I. Disbursements
5.14      To assure constant and rapid disbursement, a series of measures
have been taken to simplify the flow of project funds. These measures
include: (a) a simplified flow of funds at the national level eliminating
several steps which delay the movement of funds by 15/20 days; (b) the



- 36-
establishment of a specific project account in the National Educational
Development Fund (FNDE) permitting a separation of project funds from other
funds for primary education within the MEC; and (c) the establishment of a
Special Account for US$3.0 million (equivalent to approximately 2 months of
project expenditures).
5.15      In addition, an advance system, agreed upon during negotiations
with the Government, would be a condition for loan effectiveness. The
advance system, which would be used to pre-finance the Bank's share of
project expenditures, would work in the following manner: advances in
cruzeiros would be made by the Central Bank to the project account against an
agreement between the Borrower (the Federal Government) and the Central Bank,
providing for a future exchange of dollars on deposit in the Special Account
for the cruzeiros advanced. The Central Bank in conjunction with SEPS/MEC
would determine the conditions, amount and duration of the advance. This
advance system would function with government resources and would be entirely
under government control. No change would be required in current Bank
Special Account disbursement procedures. The Special Account would be
debited only after expenditures had been made and withdrawal applications had
been presented to the Central Bank.
5.16      States and municipalities would contract directly for goods and
works. Contractual advances of up to 20% of the amount of the contract could
be provided for under terms of the contract. Disbursements for municipally
incurred expenditures of equivalent amounts would be made through the
following mechanism: Each municipality would sign an annual contract with
the state government. The municipality would present invoices for project-
related expenditures to the state for payments to be made by the state. The
state would then disburse the exact amount of payment and the municipality
would pay the invoices. Before disbursing subsequent amounts against
invoices presented by the municipality, proof of paid invoices would be
presented by municipal authorities to the state.
5.17      Disbursements for contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent and
for miscellaneous small local expenditures for goods and services costing
less than US$25,000 each would be made against statements of expenditure.
Supporting documentation for expenditures disbursed against statement of
expenditures (salaries, administrative expenses, civil works executed under
force account, direct administration or local competitive bidding, equipment
purchased, and purchase of goods and services below US$25,000 equivalent)
would not be submitted to the Bank. They would be retained by SECs/SEPS and
made available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision
missions. Disbursements for all other expenditures would be made against
fully documented withdrwal applications. Withdrawal applications would be
prepared by SEPS/MEC and certified by the three MEC agencies involved in
project implementation. Disbursements by project categories of expenditures
would be made for the two implementation periods (1984-1985 and 1986-1990)
according to the percentages shown in Table 5.4 (appended).



- 37-
5.18      The estimated schedule of disbursements by calendar and IBRD fiscal
year is showoi in Table 5.5 appended. This estimate is about 7% shorter than
the historic profile for education projects in the region and Brazil. How-
ever, the proposed disbursement schedule should prove realistic because of
the advanced state of readiness of the project for implementation, and the
intensive efforts by the Brazilian authorities, assisted by the Bank, to
improve the flow of funds by implementing the measures described in para-
graphs 5.14 to 5.16.
J. Auditing
5.19      Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures. They would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the audit report on the various
participating agencies would be furnished to the Bank within four months
following the end of each Brazilian fiscal year.   These audit reports would
also convey the auditor's opinion of the Statements of Expenditures, their
accuracy, the appropriateness of supporting documents, their eligibility for
financing in accordance with project legal agreements, and the standard
record-keeping and related internal controls. The Special Account at the
Central Bank of Brazil (para. 5.14) would be audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
K. Readiness for Implementation
5.20      The proposed project is expected to be ready for implementation by
March 1984. In order to ensure a timely preparation process, the SEPS/MEC
preparation group has received about US$1.0 million from the loan proceeds of
the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1867-BR). These funds are being spent to
prepare the policy framework (including new operational procedures) and to
appraise two state/programs in accordance with the established criteria. In
March 1984, two of the three state programs began pilot project
implementation. These pilot projects include the following activities:
(a) the purchase of textbooks and student learning materials, (b) the
in-service training of teachers, school supervisors, directors and cooks;
(c) school mapping and the development of school designs and prototypes.
School mapping would be completed in two stages: Stage I, October 1983
through March 1984, of initial micro regions of the nine states in
preparation for construction to begin in July 1984, and Stage II, March 1984
to December 1984, for construction to begin in January 1985.
I. Retroactive Finance
5.21      Retroactive financing of up to US$4.0 million or 10% of the loan
amount is recommended to cover expenditures on educational materials;
salaries, per diem, travel, and materials for training and project adminis-
tration; technical assistance including local consultants; equipment and
furniture; and construction costs for remodeling. These actions eligible for
retroactive financing would be carried out in accordance with the agreed upon
criteria for each expenditure category.



- 38-
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The subsector project in basic education for the North and
Centerwest regions of Brazil would result in (a) an improvement in the
number of students completing four years of basic education in these regions;
(b) an improvement in the efficiency of the basic education system with
respect to the years of investment needed to produce a four-year graduate;
(c) an improvement in the amount and quality of education that both graduates
and non-graduates receive; (d) an improvement in access to basic education
for the population 7 to 14 years of age in the two regions; and (e) improve-
ments in the management capacity of the subsector at municipal, state and
federal levels.
1.   Improvement in the Quality and Number of Graduates.
6.02      The number of students completing four years of basic education
would increase as a result of the reduction in dropouts and repeating
students, particularly in grades 1 and 2. The specific reduction target is
to bring each participating municipality up to the state average with regard
to dropout and repetition (4.24). The quality of learning at each grade in
the first four years of primary school, as well as that of four-year
graduates, would also improve because of (a) upgrading teachers,
teaching; (b) provision of textbooks and learning materials for all students;
and (c) increase in the time that students spend in school from two and one-
half hours to four hours per day resulting from the elimination of shifts in
excess of two per day.
2.   Improvement in the System's Efficiency to Produce Graduates
6.03      The reduction in student dropout and repetition would lower the
average number of years of schooling currently needed to produce one
four-year graduate. At present, for the North and Centerwest, an average of
6.4 years of school is needed to produce a single four-year graduate.
Assuming a modest reduction from 6.4 to 6 years in the project areas, cost
savings of 5% per graduate would result. This is equivalent to the total
average amount spent on educational materials and other school consumables
and would thus permit a sustained increase in educational expenditures on
quality inputs without additional cost to the system.
3.   Improved Access to Basic Education
6.04      Access to basic education would be improved in the project
municipalities by (a) reducing overcrowding in the first two grades of
primary school so that more children could attend existing facilities;
(b) improved school location planning which would ensure the siting of
replacement facilities where maximum demand exists; and (c) constructing new
facilities where schools are not currently available.
4.   Improved Managerial Capacity within the Basic Education Subsector
6.05      Managerial improvements would result from (a) administrative
upgrading of municipal and state personnel in project preparation,
implementation, and monitoring techniques; (b) the training of state and



- 39-
municipal authorities in school location planning, which would occur in each
of the nine states and all participating municipalities; and (c) the creation
of long range planning capacity at federal and state levels for the subsector
focusing specifically on the projection of future demand and the analysis of
educational costs and teachers' salaries as well as special studies in
education finance.
B. Risks
6.06      There are several risks associated with the proposed subsector
project, including the instability of tenure of project-related personnel;
limited counterpart funds during the first years of project implementation;
cash flow shortages; and the uneven implementation capacity of the nine
participating states. Each is discussed in the following paragraphs.
1.   Instability of Tenure of Project Related Personnel
6.07      Frequent turnover of project-related personnel, particularly at
state levels, could prejudice project implementation. To mitigate the
turnover of project-related personnel, salary incentives have been agreed
upon with the Government, and continuous, project-related training and
cyclical technical assistance to states in annual project preparation,
implementation and monitoring have been incorporated into the general project
design.
2.   Limited Counterpart Funds During Initial Years of Implementation
6.08      The adjustment process which the Brazilian economy is currently
facing will cause a decline in employment and the wage share upon which the
education salary tax (the MECs' principal source of counterpart funds,
paragraph 5.12) is based. As a result, revenue from the education salary tax
would decline. Estimates show that counterpart shortages might result during
the first two years of project implementation. To alleviate the likely
pressure affecting counterpart availability during initial implementation,
a Bank financing schedule has been designed which would co-finance
approximately 72% of project costs during years one and two of implementation
(para. 5.17) and about 40% thereafter to stay within the Bank's 50%
participation for total project costs.
3.   Cash Flow Shortages
6.09      Fluctuations in the revenue receipts from the education salary
tax, the major source of Government counterpart funds for the project, could
cause periodic cash flow shortages affecting MEC's transfer of funds to the
nine states participating in the investment program. To obviate this
problem, the Government has agreed to establish a special account and an
advance system (paras 5.14, 5.15) for the project in the Central Bank in
accordance with procedures already established for such accounts operating in
conjunction with other Bank projects.



- 40-
4.   Uneven Implementation Capacity of Participating States
6.10      Both the Bank and MEC authorities recognize that not all nine
states designated to participate in the proposed subsector project would have
the same implementation capacity. To avoid untimely delays in overall
project implementation, several measures have been taken, including
(a) additional technical assistance for those states with less project
preparation and implementation capacity; (b) a phased implementation schedule
whereby education software components with fewer logistic and technical
problems relative to implementation would be implemented during the initial
phase while implementation capacity in physical components is being
strengthened; and (c) a state-by-state approach to implementation
conditionality, such as the presentation of annual projects and the signing
of contracts with municipal authorities, in order to prevent one or two
slower states from prejudicing the speed of implementation in the others.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations the Bank approved the following documents:
1.  Decrees creating the Program Councils in the project states.
2.  Designation of state implementation teams in the project states.
3.  A revised profile by function, qualification, and salary of the
project management team and the technical assistance agency teams.
4.  Revised version of Program Administration Manual.
5.  Proof of the execution of pilot projects in the two pilot states.
6.  Copy of ministerial resolution adopting the program manuals and
designation of the project director. (para. 4.08).
7.  Indication of the personnel for the project management team and
federal agencies' teams (paras. 4.08, 4.12, 4.13).
8.  A profile of the municipalities selected in accordance with project
criteria.
9.  Designation of state implementation teams in the project states
(para. 4.11).
10. A timetable of 1984 Program Training Activities at federal and
state levels.



- 41-
7.02      As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would establish the
system of advances from the Central Bank to the project account in the FNDE
(para 5.14).
7.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank Loan of US$40.0 million. The terms would be 15 years with a three years
of grace.



- 42 -
Table 1.1
Regional Status of Basic Education in Brazil
Index of Annual
Per Student
Net Enrollment    Efficiency   % of Trained  Expenditures in
Region           Ages 7-14yrs. 1/  Index 2/         Teachers 3/  State School 4/
BRAZIL                  68%             38              77%             100
NORTH                   58%             32              53%             .72 5/
NORTHEAST               50%             25              49%             .97
SOUTHEAST              80%              48              83%            1.22
SOUTH                   76%             49              72%            1.54
CENTERWEST              70%             38              74%           n.a.
1/ Data for 1980 based on IBGE Population Census. Enrollments are end of
school year figures.
2/ Efficiency is measured as percentage of students per 100 enrollees in
year 1 (1975) who complete Fourth grade, four years later (1978).
3/ Trained is defined as teachers with a complete secondary education.
Data Sources: Ensino de 1 Grau, 1979, Ministerio de Educacao e Cultura.
4/ Data sources: Population Statistics, 1980; approximate estimate of per
student costs.
5/  North does not include federal territories of Roraima or Amapa or the
recently inaugurated state of Rondonia, where per student expenditures
are likely to be higher.



- 43 -
Table 2.1
Selected Regional Economic and Social Indicators in Brazil
X Population
10 yrs +                         Calorie
Per Capita        with Less than 2   Urban Popula-   Deficit
Income Index     Minimum Salaries   tion (1980,        (% Total)
Region a/          1980  b/          (1978)      c/    % Total) d/           e/
BRAZIL               100                 37                64            -3%
NORTHEAST             59                 43                47           -13%
SOUTHEAST            117 (f)
Rio de Janeiro                         33                93            +5%
Sao Paulo                              33                92            +5X-
Minas Gerais/
Espiritu Santo                       39                64            +5%
SOUTH                                    36                49
FRONTIER              91                 39                 53          -15%
a   Regions include the following aggregations: Northeast: Bahia, Sergipe,
Alagoas, Pernambuco, Paraiba, Rio Grande do Norte; Southeast: Rio de
Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Espiritu Santo; South: Santa Catarina,
Parana, Rio Grande do Sul; Frontier: Goias, Mato Grosso Sul, Mato Grosso
Rondonia, Acre, Amazonas, Roraima, Para, Amapa. The Federal District is
not included.
b/ Source: Index base on Table 4.6, Country Economic Memorandum, Brazil,
World Bank, 1983.
c/ Source: Table 1.2 Differences in Income, Nutrition and Poverty within
Brazil, World Bank Staff Working Paper No.505.
d/ Source: Ibid Table 1.3.
e/ Source: Opt. cit. Table 1.3; "-" Refers to population with calorie
deficiency; and-"+"indicates surplus.
f/ Includes South.



- 44 -
Ta  2.2
QuraCterist4  aof Staw In lNdth and  C_terwt 111l
?btbly                             r
Per CqLta    lb.        Sbuidt  Sb*Dkt   2 State          state
law       2     TIz:       Mniaps1-   .oli-    E.pidi-  bRoel   lundtsre
Stae/          Pozlation    Armes    lk6n Urlzi Ares   itJ           out  _X.           Sbitg  In edsmt4 
___tmy           (1910)      (b2)    (1980)   $       )              (1978)   W$(1980)  (1978)
Ibth
Acre            301,605     612,258  44      n.a.         12        49,786     68        79        19.6
Amo_nw        1,428,000   1,313,760  60       274.        44       248,971     35      7W1         1L7
hps(a)          175,634     210,760  59      n.a.          5        37,076     n.&*.    -
Para          3,410,00D   9,479,800  49      214          83       583,564     31       55         17.7
Ruiaia          492,810   1,800,404  47       221          7        70,249     n..    100          -
~,RaIzm(a)      79,153       26,912  62      n.&.          2        16,796     n.a.     -
Goias         3,860,000  23,237,200  62       195         223      898,744     26       62         12.9
N     aeo    1,141,000   1,484,159  58                     55                  n.e.                11.9
mmo Gro                                       244                  447,565               63
Sul          1,370,000   5,356,700  67                    55                  n.a.                 7.2
(a) Fderal TMrritDril.



- 45 -
Table 2.3
Teacher's EUDloVant Status and Vase  in States and
Territories of North and Crnt*rvoet Brazil
(February 1984)
State/Territory      Eac LOar       RsGHS                 11aUtS PD                                 CR$ 31
Toacb-ro-rro  t-t-utoe  C'-o*tract   CLT -   MiiZi;i---li m           Mij,m M;LO- YaH - -
ACRE                       YES               NO        YES      20           40         50,246        147,096
(215,3")       (611,130)4/
A UPA      (FT)            YES                NO        NO      20           40        139.973         279.947
(305,439)      (610.877) 5/
ANAZONAS                   NO                NO       YnS       30           38         66,784         *77,700
GDlAS                      YES               NO        YES      24           -          48,509          87,272
NATO CROSSO              N.A.              N.A.       N.A.      22           -          93,073         321,100
MATO GROSSO SUL            YES               NO         NO      22           44         35,156          74,730
FARA                       YES               NO        YES      25           60         50,256         140,720
ROWDONIA  (FT)            -                 -          -        20          40          93,652        165,693
RORAIMA   (FT)            -                 -         -         20          40         139,973        610,877
NOTES:   FT indicatoe federal torritority, whereby teachers are  ployees of Federal Governmnt and have a
federally controlled wage scale.  While Rondonia ie no longer a federal territory, federal
standards vill prevail through 1990.
1) -CLT refers to national wage legislation.
2)  The minimm vage for these regions prior to 1984 adjuatunts is approximately 24,000 Cr$.
3) Miniimm refors to the wage paid to a t"cher vith lees than secondary education for one shift per school day.
4) Acre has a federal vage scale in forco for teachers contracted with this state was still a
fedoral territory.
5) Amapa has two federal wage scales in force.



- 46 -
Table 2.4
Estimate of Direct Cost Burden of Primary School by Income Level
Number of
Children
in School       % of Total Annual Income by Income Decile of Population 1/
18t              2nd              3rd              4th
1           2%                1%               1%               it
2           5%                2%               1%               1%
3           7%                3%               2%               14%
4           10%               4%               3%               2%
5           12%               5%               4%               24
17 Source: Appendix Table A9, data for urban incomes in Frontier 1980,
Perspectives on Poverty and Income Inequality in Brazil, World Bank Staff
Working Paper 601, 1983; Appraisal mission calculations of direct costs
to primary school per student grades 1-4.



- 47 -
Table 2.5
Estimate of Direct Costs of Primary School Per Student Grades 1-4
Transportation 1/                    $9.00
Books 2/                             $4.50
Paper and Pencils 3/                 $1.00
Uniform 4/                          $10.00
Total:                        $24.50
1/  180 days. (a) 5c per day - $9.00
2/ Assuming an x of 3 books per student (curriculum requires 2 books per
student in grade 1 and 2 and 4 books per student in grades 3 and 4. (a)
$15.0/book.
3/  Assuming 2 notebooks (a) 20c, 10 pencils (a) 5c, 1 eraser (a) lOc.
7i/ While uniforms are required in most schools, there is some flexibility in
their use. Average cost of $10.00
Table 5.4: Disbursement Percentages by Categories of Expenditure
Category                      1984-1985      1986-1990
Civil Works, Equipment, Furniture       35%             35%
Technical Assistance, Educational
Materials, Studies                    80%             41%
Project Administration                  60%             41%



- 48 -
Table 5.5
Disbursement Schedule by Semester
(in US$ millions)
Accumulated
IBRD                            Disbursement    Disbursements
CY     Sem        FY      Sem    Expenditures    Amount    %      Amount      X
1984    II       1985       I        2.9            2.0             2.5      6.0
1985     I                 II        3.6            2.5             4.5    11.0
II      1986       I         5.0            3.5             8.0    20.0
1986     I                 II       11.5            5.0            13.0    33.0
II      1987       I        11.5            5.0            18.0    45.0
1987     I                 II       12.5            6.0            24.0    60.0
II      1988       I        12.5           6.0             30.0    75.0
1988     I                 II       12.5            6.0            36.0    90.0
II      1989       I         5.0           2.5             38.5    96.0
1989     I                 II        3.0            1.2            39.2    99.0
II      1990       I          .3             .2            39.9    99.0
1990                       II         .2             .1            40.0   100.0
TOTAL                     80.0          40.0
NOTE: Disbursement for Special Account in 1984 is not included.-



DIAGRAM A
Administrative Structure of Subsector Project
in Urban Basic Education, North and Centerwest, Brazil
DirectorDteirc_
LC S~~~~~~~A
National Management
|   CEDATE   |     |   COEPE    lFAE/IRHJP                   FAE/FENAME
State & Naton_al
Coordination
State Programs in each                                                  ilding
Secretariat of Education
Natlonal,
State & Municipol
Execution 
World Bank-26030



- 50 -
DIAGRAM B
Responsibilities for Cycle of Activities in Subsector Project
Level of Government                          Activities
Federal                     Preparation of Subsector Investment Plan.
Appraisal of State investment Plans & Annual
State Programs & Projects.
Technical Assistance to States in Preparation
& Implementation of Projects.
Monitoring of State Projects.
Evaluation.
State                       Preparation of State Investment Plan for
Subsector Project.
Identiflcation of Specific Projects.
Preparation of Specific Projects.
Implementation of Specific Projects &
Annual Program.
Monitoring of State & Municipal Projects.
Evaluation.
Municipal                   ldentification of Specific Projects.
Preparation of Specific Projects.
Implementation of Specific Project.
Monitoring of Specific Municipal Projects.
Evoluation.
World Bank-26031



- 51 -
DIAGRAM C
GENERATION OF STATE PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
Stopped
{No
S          Progam Manaogment                                                                                SECs Selct
T          Team Sends Program                  State SECs/                                                  Muncipalitis
A          & Pect RPlon                        Recve                          Accept to                     M& Beglin
R          Gukdlines to Prtic                  Guidelines                        &clte  /ePrgiartlon
T          pading States                                                      \      /                   . 
Prog\am                        SECs/                          SECs Need
-   \   Proorrnm               Municipalities                 Assistance In
Managenent                     PrMP-P
Team Recetnes                  Program &                      & Prject
Appicato                       Projcts                        Preparation
I  Yes
No' 
No   I t          COEPE         |
I                PFENAME
No                                                         i                  IRHJP
NqAE
I                 CEDATE
l            ~~~~~~Assist
Distbute                       Federal Agencics                      m/n TeomMSnds
Application to                 Make Field                         t Meet          Yes        Programs &
AppropKate                     Appraisal do
Fdedw  Agen                    Applications                           ?                     Projectsrto
in~~~~~~ementatlon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ Scetryo
\  /                ~~~~~~~SEPS
Mtagwnnt             Yes         ee E; 
InpWrmentation                Team NotMe SECs     _    <      Ape             >
d APPQmI                      ppk      n /
Projecfts rtued to the Pogram Maagement Team would In fanL be sent back to the State SEC for necssVy relormulation.
World Bank-25974



-52-                                                                           A61       I1.1
COH"AIATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                            Pane I
JANUARY 27, 1984
CENTRKAL
EXPENDITURE   EDUCATION                         CO9LETION             PECIIREN
aO  EDUCATtON  REUCRtT        ADULT             8ATE FOR              UNIT COST  PRtOIRS910O
CBP PER              AS PIRCENT    EXPCEDITURES  LITERACY PRIM8aY PRIMARY    tcI AUT  PRIMANY    RATE PROP   SLCCONDARTY SV.CONDAPY SI1NCH
NSER  POP.  CAPrITA  PERCENT GWr TOTAL CRETBAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE    ?t,OLL. SCnOOL            STuDENTS EDUCATION  PRIWAI' TO  NROLtLL.   STUD S  ENMOLL.
TEAh  MILLS. (USE)   DEVOTED TO  COVRMENT    PaI  sEC  RI    (Z)    RArTo   CYCLE              PER       AS PERCENT SECOWDARY   RATIO       PER        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE           (Y)        (1976)   (1)         (I)     TEACRE.  CNP/CAPITA       (X)        (X)      TPACMCEN     (2)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)      (9)        (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DEVELOPED COUNRIES
ASTR ALIA          F.    14.6b  98870       6.53        14.6        -_   _   __                103Z      100        21        -             99          73        13      20.90
CANADA             81    23.7b  9s650b    7.7           18.5ay      30'? 34'? 23'?  99b        106'     100         21        19.98?       100          92.       18      22.60x
CGEMNY  P.R.       79    61.2  12.200       4.6          9.9        -     -     - _     b996    9       100'        -         --           100'          4        --      12.1nl
NETERLANDS         79    14.0  10 490       7.9          5.1        20   35   25      ,9b?      96       95         18        15.3          99          82        13      12.40
N8W ZEALAND        80      3.2b  6,091b    5.5'         13.4        37   31   29      99b      100      100         24        11.6         100          82        1s      2s.9ox
s5D3               79      8.3  12,250      9.0         19.2        31   10   10      99*       9g      100         19'       19.9         100          79Y       10S'    3S.506!
EASTERN AnicA
UMhUZNZ            80      o.8b    720b    6.3P         19.3        48   28   15      35b       94        74         32       22.0          33^^        20        19        1.50
RURUNDI            91     4.2      235      2.8b'       19.0        43   28   27      25        29'      35         37        20.2          12           3'       17        1.00
coIo-os            s0      0.4b    260      6.5V        25.4        40   29b  14       -        99x       65        45        16.0          58          21'       30        1.40
WISOUTI            81     0.3      460      5.4         10.8        60   40   ...    10         32       --         *1        -             60           8        19       0.50
ETnIOPIA           80    31.0b    130b    2.2P          11.16       52   32   14'    15         39       --         59        18.0          ---          9        41'      5.10
KENYA              79    15.3      390      5.9'        18.Ob       71   15   14      45        92       74         40        15.9          41          19        2e       1.0n
LESOTHo            82      1.*b    435b    5.5          16.9        38   32   26      53b      116'      41         48         9.6          46          21        21       1.30
MADAGASCAR         77     8.5      330      4.0'        24.0        53   28   19      50        94bz     33         55b        8.0          38          14        23       1.106b
MAVLA              81      6.1b    230b    3.5          11.4        38   14   25      25b       62       23         65         5.8          12           4        21       0.40
ARITIVS            80     0.9b  1.090b    6.0           11.5        39   40    7      8O        87       78         22b       17.1          79          45'       21       n.40
IWANDA             80      5.0b    200b    3.2          21.3        62   17   11      23b       57X      62         40        14.0           6           4x       13       0.40
SEYCHELLES         79     0.6   1,770       3.9         22.44       341  33-  10'              -         -          25        --            --_         __       __
SOMALIA            81     4.5      280      1.5         10.5        50b  44b   6b    50b        22b      Bob        29b        9.0b         pob         12b      22        1.00
SUDAN              SO    19.2b    380b    3.0          -           66   39   ...    32          51"t    68          34         1.4          44          16        16      ...
SAZILAND          80     0.6      760      7.9         18.8       41   34   15       65b       79       50         34        11.2          99          37b       18       2.50
TA6ZANIA           sO    18.3      260      5.9         17.7        47   10   16      79b       99b      87         43        11.0          19b          3        20'      0.30
UGANDA             80    12.6      300b    -            16.1-       23b  37b  20b    48         54X      61         34        -             17           5        23       0.60
2AIRE              78    27.5      210      6.0'       22.0        49   26   25       15        84?      44         42X       -             41          13'      27        1.106b
ZAntIA             a0      5.7b    566b    4.5p         11.1        48   23   22      44b       95       80         48        12.9          19          16        22       1.50
ZtNUB6Z            SI     7.7b    700b    5.1           19.5       62   32    6       44b      90        55         39        20.0          95          15        23       0.50
WRSTORx AFRICA
RESIN              79     3.4b    320b    6.5'         35.0        43   21    5    1b           42       30         46        14.0          30          11        43       1.007
CAEROON            78     8.2      590      2.9'        16.0y      33-  43' 20'   --            74       45'        30Y       11.8'         20'         147      26        1.307
C.A.R.             79      2.2     290      3. '?       20.6?y     -    -    -                                      65?                                -                   0.70a?
CUD                76     4.4      120      2.:4wy      21.7b      -    --           13         257      -          77        -             --           3z?     21        0.207
CONDo              78     1.5      670      9.0a       27.7aT      -    --                               -          56?        _            30           _       43b?      4.00'?
GABON              77     0.6   3.420       3.7by        8.4?      -  -       - _         _              -          46b?                    -           --       b19y      2.10aT
cAa7s              77     0.6      220      3.3"w        6.5b      46   251    6    10ob       40b       90'        67b?      44.7'         40          126b1     17       -
GCNA               76    11.3      400      4.07        15.5b      -    -_           -          71bx6     _         23b7      -             --          3661b    21        -
GUIXNA             79      5.3     290P    4.6 P       -            25' 28' 28'   20            34       36         38        20.02P        85          16        29       7.006
IVORY COST         91    J.2  1.070b   10.0           45.0        33   46   13    30b         60        86         43        26.0          47          15"-?    26        1.906?
LIDERA             80      1.9     520      4.6         19.6       43   23   24    30          52        32         35        20.0          76          22       20        2.90
MALI               81      7.0b    190      4.2'        21.7'       38   21   11    10          20       60         44        15.7          66           1        11       0.906?
AStTAN8A           78     1.6b    320b    5.5          16.9        33   43   25    17b         32        60         44        52.0          30           9       25        0.37
NIGER              78     5.2      300      4.35'      16.6'?      52' 43&   5'    A            17       56'        41'       39.7a         40           2       24b       0.207
NIGERIA            77    82.6      910      4.1?        9.6        --  -      -      -         --                                            _          1OxY     25        0.17?
SENEGAL            77     5.5      450      5.0        23.0        46   34   20    10          34bx7       -        43b6                    20          10       21        2.20b7
SInRA LEONE        77     3.4      250      4.ob        16.0b         - -    -       15b       37'       -          35        25.0b         84          15'      22        0.60by
TOGO               78     2.4      400      6.5q'       26.5q      306  28'  21'   18           74       40         54b6      38.0          52          32b6r    48b       E.60b6
UPPER VOLTA        78     5.6      18O      3.0"r       19.3'?     31   16   32    -            15b?     23         53b6      52.5?         19           3bx6    25        0.02?
LATIN AMEICA AND TME CA-IBEUN
ARGETIA            78    27.3   2.210       2.7         10.9        43'  31  18'   93b         89       52         17        -             87          31         a      23.00
tRAMAs             74     0.2   2,770       5.7         19.1       36   36   11    93b         99        97         24        -             97          75       19       -
UARRASOS           79     0.2   2.680       8.56V?     22.1'       43'  31'  16'   99b        1007       99'        27?       19.9'         99'         78'      207      ---
tOLrVIA            8O     3.4      550      4.1-?      30.5'       -     -     -     63         74?      -          207       -             --          157       _       12.607
RtEZL              79   116.5   1,770       3.8          6.2       51   -    14    76          73 '      -          23'        4.5b         61*         15?       LAMY    12.62b
CHILE              76    10.9   1890        3.267       13.06b      _         -                11b?    -            34b6      --             -          55b61    20b6    11.90b6
COLOMB7            80    26.7b  l 180b    3.3          25.0        35   20   20    alb          78       36         32         6.6          -           47       20       10.02'?
COSTA RICA         80     2.2b  1.8106    8.4          31.1        *0   27   33    90          93        77         33         3.5          77          40       27       14.00
CUBA               78     9.8      -        8.0         11.0       --  -    -        96       1126w?    98          18b6      -             98          7lb-     15       19.02by
DO_ICAN REP.    8O         5.3   1.030      2.9         13.0       39   21   22    68b          8O       31         59         3.2          94          30       33       16.00
ECUADOR            80     8 4b  1I110       6.0P       36.7-       45   31   16    81         105        -          36        12.6          86          47        16      29.00
L SALVADOR         77     4.4      640      3.46b       23.1b?     64    9   27    62          82bx7    32          39        -             41          26b1?    27by      7.90by
GUATRIALA          78     6.8   1,010       1.7?        12.6b      -    -     -      -          69b6      _         35b7      -             69          13b61     16by      . 507
CGYAxA             76     0.9      630      8.1b?       13.9by     -    -_           -         9qb6;r    _          32by      --            -           596bx    -         3.00by
RAITI              80      5.Ob    230      3.A4         7.9y      65    9    6    23b          50       20         41        19.0          62'          4'       27       o.80
HOODURA            78     3.6      520      3.5b6       14.3by     62   15i  19    60          *6bx1    30'         416b      12.8'         68'         2117     19        8.007
JAMlACA           8O       2.1   1,110      6.5         13.7       37   43   20    90          98        98         40         2.3          95          81       22        9.00
tllCO             t60    65.5   1 ,0        4.7         17.0'      46   19   15    92          98        53         44         9.5          86          56       17       10.30
IllCANAGU          78     2.6b 6106         3.06W      14.06       -    --  -       90b        8361      24         376       -             -          2661      30b __
PArM               76      1.6b  1,550b    5.5ba7       21-.by     4Ye  13'  13    R26         93b6      --         235b      11.6          85'         5flby    27by    20.407b
PARAGUT            79     3.0   1,140       1.4'       14.2        42   17   20    84          83        32         28         3.1r         76         22        12        0.70
PERU               80    16.6   1,000       3.6         14.3       53   15   19    80           83       56         39         9.8          99          39       22       14.40I
TRINIDAD A TON.   77       1.1   3,910      4.8b6        096by     48   32   20    95           98       91         30        10.5t         49          62       24       --
URUGUA             78     2.9   2,500       2.5         9.4b         -    -  -       94        105bx      _         24b        _ 6                      64b6     -        17.80'?
VZENZUELA          78    14.4   3,440       5.1         IS.9b      -     -    -      82        106bx     -          28        -             -           386b     17       21.10o



-53 -
one x 1.1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                        Page 2,
JANUARY 27, 1984
CENTRAL
EXNEDITURE   EDUCATION                        COMFLFTION           NCURREtNT
ON EDUCATION  RECURRENT      ADULT            RArg Fo              UNIT COST  PNOGRESSION
GNP PER             AS PERCrET    EXPENDITuRES  LITtRACY PRIMARY PRIMAXT    PRIMA?  PRIMARtY   RATE FPRO    SECONDARY SECOEDARY PIGCPC
BASE  POP. CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED To0 RUATE       ENRLL. SCrOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PKIMAR TO) ENOLL.  STOEDNTS  FNROLL.
YTEA  MILLS. (U5$)  DEVOTYD TO  CO6RNMUNT-   PRI SEC  rI    (5)   RATIO  CYCLE            PER      AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO    PEN          HATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  KPExDIToRE         (Z)       (1976)   (1)        (I)     TRACKER  GWP/CAPITA      (%)         (C)    TEACrR      ('I)
(1)     (2)       (3)           (4)          (5)         (6)) 7)                      (9)        (10)        ()          (12)      (13)    (14)
rAST ASIA AND TSr PACIFIC
CEINA             81  ff6.ob    300b    3.6           8.3        34   39   27      69b      80       63        23         7.0         72          38       17       3.70
INDONESIA         81   150.5b    520      2.1         9.3        70   24    6     32b       98       61         37       11.0         74          27       26       3.70
KOREA             82    39.3b  1.6366    7.7V         20.8       34   34   31      96       99       98         43       19.0         98          84       38      21.90
MALAYSIA          Sl    14.2b  1.785b    5.2         22.0        32'  37' 23'    606        96k'     97         22       12.2'        87          65'      19       3.70'
PAPUA N.C.        79      2.9     760     5.4'       16.46       -    --_  -      -         62bR     73         31        1.1         --          t,bx     23      --
PrILIPPINES       79    48.36    690b    2.8'        14.0        64   36***-    75b         84       65        31         7.1         89          55       36      21.00
SINGAPORE         s0     2.4   4,420      2.7         6.7        39   40   16     83        92       82        31         8.8         46          SS       22       8.00
SOLONX ISL.       80     0.2      *60     4.2Pw       10.0'      41   34   20     -         60       s0        26        -            33          18       -       ---
TNAILAND          so    ,7.3b    723b    3.4         20.9        59   15   13    86b        96       -          17        9.3         59          29       22       4.00
SOUTN ASIA
rAN5ADESH        79    92.3b      90     1.1P       10.14y      51   17   20     22b       637      -         53         5.6         --          14       23       1.43
INDIA             77   639.6      210     2.97        9.9y       -    --  -       36        79       -         4l        -            ___        2'        ---       .30&7
NEPAL             82    15.Ob    150b    1.4        -             -   _- _        19        70       -         38        ---           _         21        23       3.70'
PAKISTAN          79    79.7      270     2.0wY       3.17       39   26   27     24        561      800       48         6.5         51         20x       17       6.00
rUROPE. MIDDLE EAST AlD NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANIsTAN       77    15.5      -       1.7         3.7        47   19   15      12       31by     69         37b 6                 62           a       22by      1.007
ALGERIA           79    IP.3   1,770      3.8'       12.3        34' 268  21'   35          837      453        37        7.0?        55'         297      26       3.707
EGrYT             51    43.0b    580b    3.1"         4.5        31' 35&  26'   44          84X      80'        34        9.8'        83'         43       19      15.00'
GREECE            76      9.3   4,140     2.6'       10.6b       37   26   21      --       97b6      --        29b       6.2?        --          79b-    77by    17.90b6
IRAN              79    36.9      -       5.7a'      14.1        --  --  -        50 so     i o      -_        32'       --                      44"       248      4.90mY
IRA0              79    12.6   2,710      4.3-7       6.9'       -    -    --    -         100'      -         28        -            --         45&y      2S'      9.30'
IRELAND           81     346  4 480       6.3a'      11.8 '      -     -     -    98        93       94        29        -            98         81        14      11.00
JORDAN            8l     2.2b  1.420b    4.9g        10.2        19   44   18     70b      1O8X      AS         32        7.2         91          A2R      25      19.00
LERANON           79   2.3   --   -                  18.6"7  -  -  -    -                   96'    -            19    -               --          46'   -    27.80 '
MOROCCO           s0    19.5    740       6.3"'      17.5'       36   44   20      28       56 '     35         39       19.7         40          2sx      21       4.50
OwAN              79      0.9   3,530     3.7a"       4.9'    -    --  --    -              45a7     -          23'      -            -            7x       9       --
POUCAL            79      9.b  2.060     3.6   .    22.2        30   28   11      78       97       20         19'      12.8         88          45X      17$       .30'
OKAMIA            78    22.1   2,100      3.g9b       6.2'       -    - -         98       106bx     --        236       -            98         84bx      22b     10.60by
SPAIN             76    37.0   4,920      2.13       16.8'       -    --  -                 98by     -          29b      -            -           67by      _      24.10by
SYRIA             78     8.6   1,170      4.4P       10.3        39   25   26      38       87by     80        35b       -            68         41by      21b     12.60
TUNISIA           79     6.4   1 130      7.0P       19.0        42   39   18     62b       07ox     80        39b       12.8         30          30X      30       6.00
TURMr             81      4D7b  1.460h    3.1        26.2        -    -    -       73b     118'      90'        28        7.9         31          38       20       6.70
YErN A.R.         80      6.8     420     5.0P'      12.0        94    7    7      21b      37       12'        38'      67.0         85           3       20       1.10
TYMEN P.D.R.      82     2.Ob    420b    7.6          9.7        63' 14    r      53        61       34         25       22.0'        46          17       20       2.50
SLMKARY rFO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
Nuber of Countries:                    84             94       70   69   67     76        88       64        94        62           72         91        86      83
Mneg:                                  (1.4-          3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5-    (8-       (15-     (12-        (17-     (1.1-        (6-         (2-      (8-     (0.01-
10.0)         45.0)  94)    6)  36)    99)      119)     99)         77)      67.0)         99)        84)      48)      29.0)
Ouartilee: Upper:                       5.6           20.8     52   35   21     80        96       79         42       20           R5          45       25      10.6
Median:                      4.0          15.5      43   27   18     52       83        60        35        12           61         25        21       3.7
Lower:                       3.0          10.5      37   18  13      24        56       33        27        7            40         13        18       1.0
Quartile DvIation:                      1.1            5.1    7.5  9.0  4.0   23.0      20.5     22.5       7.5       6.4         22.5        15.5      8.5       4.8
Hasn:                                   4.5           16.1     46   28l  18      53       75       60         36       16           60          31       21       6.9
Standard Deviation:                     1.9            7.4     13   10    7      30       26       25         11       13           27          23        7       7.4
Mediau:                                 4.0           15.3     43   28   19      53       83       61         35       12           61          25       22       3.7
SYMOLS:                                                     FOOTNOTES:
DATUM UNAVAXLALE                                       A - DATUM PRIOR TO EASE YEAR                        S - MINISTRY OP EDCATION (MOE) ONLY
... MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIRLE                               S - DATUM MORE RECENT TRAN RAUE TEAR               T - MOE AND STATS GOVEMNT ONLY
? DATUM QUSTIONASLE                                         N - CURRENT PRICES                                 V - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
*  INCLUDES PART-TINE STUDENTS                              P - GDP                                            X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCS:
Columns I 2od 2: World Bank Atla or ZlED jtesaons.
Colowns 3 to 14:   ERD mission. Govermenst soor.. and/or Un*sco Statisticl TYerbook.
Comparative Education Data ar  useful in the evaluati:o of variSou *duction syste   and anmlysia of relative staes of educattonal developmet betweqn vrious
eoOnttlee.   owpver. on the basS. of the present data, croseatlonwl coaparlsou shold b6 approacb.d dith graat cawtion. Det- premantod to the above tabl have
been collected larsely by Bank udjsions frm Sovrnm_nt sources; the remsinder are staff entiNate or data from Unesco.  Efforts hae  bees mde to standrdte
definitiaowand, within lalts, to check the aecuracy of the data.  NeRvrtbeless, uch data are still Imperfect In several respcts and the rnk is working ee
improve thee pragrssively on tbe occmaio  of its operational work. In the ue of tbese data, the foliowing qu llfcatlons  bhoald be kept In mind:
(1)  XEdcation' as defined In the table includes  11 education and trainig, both formal and non-forml.
(2)  'Primary  *ducation refers to educatton at the first lal and  seokndary' education refers to all *ducatitn at the secondry la"a  remard1ass of tye
(e.g.. Senral. technical, agricult.ral).
(3)  "Literacy rates' (col. 6) ar' often obtained from country cans.sa..  In may countrias they ara mly approximatios and It iS doubtful that may untform
definition of literatle has been followed consistently.
(4)  -ubllc expenditur  In education" (cols. 4 end 5) referm to all capital and recurrmnt expenditures devoted to education by public and quai-public
asencles.
(5)  "Earollmnt ratios' (cola. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percntage of eliSible children erolled full-tim  in the appropriate echol,
public and pri,ate by level. They are often subject to a wide warsin of error in the dealoping countries mwing to variations ie the accuracy of baesi
deta (i.e., age-spcific population *nd *nrellm-nts).  Enrollmnt fiures frequently are hISher than the n_abr of students actually in sehol. Over-eEed
students whose inclusion Is indicated by foototno also can iaflate the ratios.



54 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
Selected Documents Available in Files
1. Estudo Preliminar a Definiao de Programa de A;ao Para o Acordo MEC/BIRD
e Anexo de Dados.
2.  Informagoes Gerais Sobre A Regiao Centro-Oeste.
3.  Informagoes Gerais Sobre As Unidades Federadas da Regiao Centro-Oeste.
4. Informa;oes Gerais Sobre A Regiao Norte.
5.  Informasoes Gerais Sobre As Unidades Federadas da Regiao Norte.
4.  Dados Sobre Recursos Financeiros Disponiveis e Aplicados Na Fun;ao
Educagao No Centro-Oeste e Nas Unidades Federadas da Regiao.
7. Dados Sobre Recursos Financeiros Disponiveis e Aplicados Na Fun9ao
Educa9ao e Cultura No Norte do Pais e Nas Unidades Federadas da
Regiao.
8. Caracterizagao Socio-Economico, Demografico e Educacional de Rondonia,
Mato Grosso, Amazonas, Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Roraima.
9. Prograuas Estaduais
Goias
Aapa
Mato Grosso do Sul
Amazonas
Roraima
Mato Grosso
Acre
Para
Rondonia
10. Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao
Relatorio Anual 1982, 1981, 1980
11. Manual de Elaboracao e Avaliacao de Projetos
12. Manual de Programacao e Gerencia
Anexo I
13. Manual de Macroplanejamento
14. Plano de Investimento
15. Manual de Orientacao para Planejamento de Rede Eacolar
Urbana/1  Grau N/CW



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
page 2 of 2
16. Criterios para Elaboracao de Projetos-Escolas de 1' Grau, 1'-4a. Series
17. Relatorio Tecnico/Testagem: Microplanejamento de Rede Escolar em Areas
Urbanas/Goiania
18. Criterios para Selecao de Terrenos
19. Termos de Referencia para Projetos de Recursos Humanos
20. Termos de Referencia para Projetos de Material de Ensino
21. Termos de Refereacia para Planejamento ao Longo Prazo
22. Fluxos Escolares.






IBRD 18031
(VENEZUELA   ,                          G   -            (FRENCH            Sb                                          4D*                        FEBRUARY
;     . B    /SURINAMEGUIANA.
C O L O M BI A                                                          \ 
~~CB ) -  OAIMA   Y                           _        .                                  ATANI                       OCF   '
L.  A ->  ts'  <      Tf RP7iYt R'.'   t        i  )        >      :'.M,^ oA <                S  T         AM   /   C     0  C   I A
--'-' wi  ED4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ yTh   ~~~~~~~    4                                       - ~~~~~Fortaleza
2(0:~~~
J                   A                                 Te resllo                   V., .i Mo
'~~~L                       NI                                0Nata~~~;I-     "i ~i!jr
k        T!OPr _  X                                                                                                                                               oJ0: .t   ,Pe..-  , 
I                            ) el  X   i   t>  (   ,X   I  0 r /                         Jooo Pesso
-L0 AA;/R>N                             A =-8t             1            6i' Vj  -;oio                         <,                                                          0R-f
08rancoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       oMoceio
P E R U                                   'M   T,
I                   C    V   S -                                         IN - s c L,
0  (~~~~~~~~~~~
(?                      >                     s L  E    i          EA'  N RASIiA  I;  ,                            0          A I.2 ,. 
B O L I V I A                             r              /   Goi6nia'
---J                                                 k 4                 ,,.>,-   
N(1l~~~~Ai~~~ ~~jo~H.ro,,of
'i (  -                                                      CampoGrande~~~~~~~~~~~~0YV
f0    '!    C.                                                                                                    8 /'   .'   '   ,   \.  {   W   Canpc    Grande    F    -~   -=  '  elo   Horiionte    o   . .:.-a  ,P,si.l   ~   .2,    P!
\PARAGUAY',
CH I LE                                                         *1SooI                                        Raode-lane,ro          BAI
C H I L EV \- il \ _/ > scrio PauloO ~~~~~' ~ ~ RtrtJde JanePrO ~B R A Z I L
(  '1/;    |! !5< - i r , fr                                     URBAN  BASIC EDUCATION
/    (                                   gA' )                      CUrI8IbaO                                SUBSECTOR   PROJECT
!                                                                                                                                          ST (  >  g   v _ZX  WAS > r,  -Lt ;/.\,%I S.Ri   S : .: 1 5TTES KARTIC PATANA I oAVSFCVDR PROJE,I
Ke <.        BRA ZIL   ),                    ARG EN TIN A                                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITAl
S b ro s ,rJ ia rf2i  T hK DS o , m :  h AV h7N                                                                                           0      S T A T E   C A P IT A L S
>   |AME 2.1CA  -  ,              riPorf.AKegre_                                                                                         -      - STAIL .0-AIALS
AMERICA               .VIIVBIV,K 01111K andrlelnlerrAhonslFVAV,V                   F 2>       n                                          _    _        NAT        NNNOL -
I   0KB 111,, r:KKBBKDSKVI.KK . . .                                                               - . \  CObFral:n The dd =  g  {  Ksl   .  C2a   00 4  ;00  _ _   RIVERS
'; )  '   I T ,lKMFhOKDD11DF KP  DV Co1porl nn  i                                            - .  j .
; 8     ) oxnylrrtonyoanv                            IJURUGUAY  h {/l
. a                   I end11IIKflOVO VV asCVVDVAK. F1'10                                                             ICV   IC     IC 50  4D C0
V        VKIVOBIVKKKOK IIVKIKAAVAKVK ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-URIlGU AV   /~~~~~~~~~~~~



