Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P -3 7 84-BI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THfE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
TO THE
EKECUTIVE DIREXCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR AN
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE NORTH AND CENTER-WEST
April 24, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of l
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983                               February 23, 1984
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = Cr$577.05                            US$1 - Cr$1157.00
Cr$1 = US$0.0017                            Cr$1 = US$.000864
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used for project cost and financing estimates
is (US$1=Cr$1,050.0).



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
COEPE     -    Coordination Unit for Primary Education
(Coordinaria de Ensino de Primeiro Grau)
FAE       -    Foundation for Student Assistance
(Funda,ao de Assistencia ao Educando)
FNDE      -    National Education Development Fund
(Fundo Nacional. de Desenvolvimento Educacional)
INEP      -    National Institute of Education Research
(Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais)
IRHJP     -    Joao Pinheiro Institute for Human Resources
(Instituto de Rlecursos Humanos Joao Pinheiro)
MEC       -    Ministry of Education and Culture
(Minister:Lo de Educagao e Cultura)
OME       -    Municipal Educational Organization
(Organizagao Municipal de Educagao)
PLIDEF    -    Program in Primary School Textbooks
(Programa de Livro Didatico do Ensino Fundamental)
PMT       -    Project Management Team
PNAE      -    National School Feeding Program
(Programa. Nacional de Alimentagao Escolar)
SEAC      -    Subsecret.ariat of Coordination
(Subsecretaria Adjunta de Coordenacao)
SEC       -    State Secretariat of Education and Culture
(Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura)
SENEC     -    Municipal Secretariat of Education and Culture
SecretariLa Municipal de Educa,ao e Cultura
SEPS      -    Secretar:Lat of Primary and Secondary Education
(Secretaria de Ensino de Primeiro e Secundo Graus
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



--



BRAZIL
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE NORTH AND CENTER WEST
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$40.0 million, including a capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.1 million.
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries: The Ministry of Education and Culture, seven states and two
federal territories would be the major beneficiaries of the
loan proceeds, to be used in obtaining equipment for
schools, educational materials and for training of staff.
Project
Description:   The loan would help finance the Government's 1984-90
investment program for basic education in the North and
Center-West. The program objectives are to define a
long-term development plan for basic education, to improve
the quality of basic education in grades 1 - 4 of seven
states and two federal territories in the North and
Center-West regions, and to expand access to basic education
within the region where existing facilities are inadequate.
Risks:          Risks to project success include the possibility of
reduction to the planned investment program as a result of
continued financial difficulties in Brazil. To minimize
this risk, the Bank would disburse at a higher rate (72%)
for 1984 and 1985, and a lower rate (40%) thereafter.
Frequent turnover of project related personnel, particularly
at state level, could break the continuity in project
implementation. To limit this risk, salary incentives have
been agreed with the Government, and continuous project
related training and technical assistance are incorporated
into project design.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:!               -------U3$ Million-------------
Local            Foreign           Total
National Programs                 5.3              0.3               5.6
Long Term Planning and
Pre-Investment                  1.0               -                1.0
Special Projects                0.5                                0.5
Strengthen Local Admin.          1.5                                1.5
Evaluation                       0.5                -               0.5
Administration                   1.8              0.3               2.1
Sub-Projects                    49.5               6.8              56.3
State Textbook Programs         4.3               0.8              5.1
Municipal Training and
Educational Materials          16.9              2.8              19.7
School Remodeling                9.9              1.1              11.0
New Facilities                  18.4              2.1              20.5
Total Base Costs                 54.8              7.1              61.9
Physical Contingencies           5.7              0.8               6.5
Price Contingencies            10.2               1.3              11.5
Total Project Cost               70.5              9.4              79.9
Front-end Fee on Loan            -                 0.1               0.1
Total Financing Required         70.5              9.5             80.0
1/ Net of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:             ---- …-----US$ Million--------------
Local           Foreign          Total            %
Government                40.0              -              40.0            50
IBRD                      30.5             9.5             40.0           50
Total                     70.5             9.5             80.0           100
Estimated Disbursements:  ------------------US$ Million---------------
Bank FY                 85      86      87     88      89      90
Annual:                 7.5 I/ 5.5   11.0   12.0   3.7    0.3
Cummulative:            7.5   13.0   24.0   36.0  39.7   40.0
Rate of Return: n.a.
Staft Appraisal Report: No. 4918-BR of April 24, 1984.
1/ Including initial deposit into Special Account.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$40.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR AN
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE NORTH AND CENTER-WEST
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$40.0
million including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.1 million to help
finance an Urban Basic Education Project in the North and Center-West. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil"
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs
summarize and complement the findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Figueiredo,
completes its six-year term in March 1985. Its main economic priorities
have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of manufactured
exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the same time an
improvement in the situation and prospects of the most economically
disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the Northeast. The prime
political concern has been the return to a fully democratic system of
Government. The most recent major step in this direction was the general
election held in November 1982 for all state governors and executive
officials and for the federal legislature, including deputies and
senators. Election of the next president is scheduled for January 1985.
4.        Much of the Government's attention, since 1980, has had to be
diverted from longer-term political and economic change because of the
stabilization problems confronting Brazil. Success in tackling inflation
and a difficult short-term balance-of-payments situation is crucial to its
prospects for a return to satisfactory rates of growth, and for improving
income distribution and regional balance. In spite of the economic
recession and consequent political pressures, substantial progress has been
made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage of
development.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant



- 2 -
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the intiernational recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprise; and heavy forei.gn borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's external debt more than doubled from US$28.4 billion to
US$66.2 billion.
6.        The efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974, when
the trade deficit increased to US$4.7 billion, created strong internal
pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to
external shocks, and when further iincreases in oil prices occurred in 1979
and 1980, and interest rates increased, the current account deficit more
than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion and reserves fell to US$5 billion.
Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
7.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981. The rate of credit expansion
was severely curtailed, commercial bank interest rate controls were
removed, and monetary correction and the exchange rate were brought back
into line with inflation. Industrial output declined by 5.4% as demand for
capital goods and consumer durables contracted. The restoration of export
tax incentives contributed, however, to a 26% growth in manufactured
exports, and a higher transactions tax on imports accelerated their
decline, with nominal imports falling by 15%. The trade balance improved
from a negative US$2.8 billion in both 1979 and. 1980 to a positive US$1.2
billion in 1981, but there was an increase of US$3 billion, to US$9.2
billion, in net interest payments abroad. Domestic inflation fell, but
only to 95%. The combination of strong policy measures and the
balance-of-payments improvement sustained confidence among the banks
lending to Brazil, and no problems were experienced in raising the US$10
billion in net lending required for the balance of payments during 1981.
8.        External events over which Brazil had no influence created
exceptionally severe pressures on the economy in 1982. Declining world
commodity prices and economic problems among countries which had been the
growth markets for Brazil's manufactured exports resulted in exports 13%
lower in 1982, in dollar terms, than in 1981. War in the South Atlantic
and, later, the Mexican liquidity crisis, led to a reduction in lending by
the international financial community to Brazil, which was compelled to
increase its short-term borrowing and draw down reserves. Net interest
payments rose to US$11.4 billion and the current: account deficit to a
record US$14.8 billion, equivalent to 73% of coamodity export earnings. In
late 1982 the loss of its reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll
over existing loans or extend further credits, and bleak international



market prospects led Brazil to seek assistance from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) in support of a further adjustment program.
9.        In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial assistance of the
order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the Extended
Fund Facility, for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were commercial
bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rescheduling
of US$4.6 billion in medium- and long-term loans due in 1983, the
maintenance of US$9.4 billion in short-term commercial credits and the
restoration to US$7.5 billion of the deposits held by foreign banks in
overseas branches of Brazilian banks. These "Phase I" funds were disbursed
in 1983, except that the level of interbank credits to Brazil reached only
US$6.0 billion rather than the 'US$7.5 billion pledged.
10.       This operation proceeded in the context of stabilization measures
whose primary objective was the reduction of the current account deficit
and external borrowing requirements, with a trade surplus target of US$6
billion in 1983. The cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and
subsequently adjusted in line with domestic inflation, implying some
further real devaluation as world prices rose. Import restrictions were
further tightened. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, reflecting both the import
restrictions and reduced domestic demand conditions. Exports increased by
8.5% to US$21.9 billion, in spite of adverse trading circumstances, and a
trade surplus of almost US$6.5 billion was achieved. The current account
deficit was reduced to US$6.2 billion.
11.       The domestic financial targets for 1983 originally agreed with
the IMF were not met, but an amended program agreed later in the year was
substantially achieved. There was a partial deindexation of wages;
monetary correction was again made equal to the full inflation for the
previous month, after having lagged behind it from July to November;
additional fiscal measures were taken to increase revenues and reduce
expenditures; steps were taken to eliminate a number of subsidies; relative
prices for fuel products and wheat were raised and other administered
prices brought into line with the inflation rate; negative real interest
rates for most agricultural ancl export credits were eliminated; and
monetary policy was tightened t:o limit increases in the monetary base to an
agreed 90%.  The revised public sector borrowing target (18.6% of GDP) and
operational deficit target (2.7% of GDP) were both met, the latter falling
from 6.0% of GDP in 1982.
12.       The short-run cost to the economy of these adjustments was high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages in the
supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very high real
interest rates, and the devaluation referred to in para. 10 above.
Preliminary official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.3% in 1983,
concentrated in the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per
capita GDP has declined by about 12% in 1981-83, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers.



.4-
The Economic Outlook
13.       Brazil is pursuing in 1984 a stringent adjustment program,
directed internally to the generation of a surplus equivalent to 0.3% of
GDP in the public sector's operational budget, and externally to the
achievement of a massive US$9 billion surplus in commodity trade. Growth
of both the money supply and the monetary base is to be limited to no more
than 50%. Targets for the public sector, which are being closely
monitored, involve improved performance in the central government, state
enterprises, state, municipal and social security budgets equivalent in
total to 3% of GDP, and the overall borrowing requirement is to be reduced
to 11-13%, of GDP depending on the level of inflation and its rate of
decline. High inflation has persisted despite the monetary measures taken
to date, but the Government hopes for a decline of up to one-half of the
1983 rate of 211% during 1984, and has not been deterred by the continuing
price rises from taking further steps to adjust relative prices and
liberalize pricing policies. Measures which will have an impact in 1984
include increases in fuel product prices, to prevent the re-emergence of
subsidies; wheat and wheat products price rises designed to eliminate their
subsidy by mid-year; steel and electricity prices adjusted in 1984 to raise
them 5% more than inflation; the liberation of trade in some agricultural
commodities; and the avoidance of market price controls. Trade adjustments
have included the elimination in December 1983 of restrictions on profit
remittances, most multiple currency practices, and bilateral payments
arrangements. The export tax cred[it system and the financial transactions
tax on foreign exchange will end in 1985, and some import liberalization
measures, including a move towards greater reliance on tariffs rather than
quantitative import controls, are to be introduced this year.
14.       International support fcr the adjustment program comprises a new
external financing package involving both the commercial banks and official
lending agencies. In addition to rescheduling principal payments of US$5.3
billion, commercial banks will provide US$6.5 billion in new loans, on
terms better than those obtained for the previous year. Official bilateral
aid will add US$2.5 billion in export guarantees and almost US$4.0 billion
in rescheduling through the Paris Club. In March 1984 the first IMF
tranche of $390 million was released and US$3.0 billion in commercial bank
funds was made available. The othLer US$3.5 billion will be disbursed in
instalments during the year, as will a further US$1.17 billion in IMF
support, subject to quarterly performance reviews.  New officially
guaranteed export credits may fall short of the planned US$2.5 billion, but
Brazil's trade surplus has continued to increase, reaching an unprecedented
US$1 billion in the month of March, and US$2.4 billion for the first
quarter of 1984. Manufacturing exports have led this growth and were 40.7%
higher in this quarter than in the same period in 1983.
15.       The necessary resources therefore seem to be assured for 1984,
and there is some hope emerging in Brazil that the worst of the recession
may be past. There is a clear need, however, for further external support,
and for continuing efforts to adjust, to bring the economy back to a
sustainable longer-term external payments position. Careful demand
management must be maintained if inflation is to be brought under control.
Public investments will continue to be limited by reduced resource



- 5 -
availabilities, probably for several years. Agricultural and industrial
production and exports are receiving high priority, as is the further
development of domestic energy resources. The maintenance of international
competitiveness through improved exchange rate management, and more
realistic pricing and interest rates for the domestic economy, should help
to promote more efficient resoulrce allocation favorable to both export
growth and sound import substitution.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payments depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices. About three quarters of its large external debt carries
variable interest rates, or is short term, and a change of 1% in average
annual LIBOR terms would mean a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about
US$700 million. In 1983 oil accounted for over 50% of total imports, even
though the volume of oil imports was 26% below the level of 1979. Allowing
for re-exports, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices
would have a US$300 million impact on the balance of payments.
17.       Assuming that world economic conditions remain moderately
favorable, Brazil can look forward to a gradual recovery beginning this
year, and to growth reaching and possibly exceeding 5% per annum by 1987.
Such a scenario would be compatible with a falling current account deficit
through 1989. However, it does require the continued availability of net
capital inflows over the period. M&LT borrowing requirements for 1985 and
beyond will be substantial -- around US$16 billion gross but only US$5-6
billion net in 1985, and larger gross disbursements in the following 2-3
years. The total debt outstanding would remain approximately constant in
real terms over the rest of the decade. As Brazil's exports increase, the
net M&LT debt service ratio is expected to decline, from 75% in 1982 to a
projected 64% in 1989.
18.       The present emphasis on exports is therefore central to the
adjustment strategy. Brazil's industrial development through import
substitution has been relatively efficient because of its large domestic
market and diversified resource base. It has shown its capacity to compete
internationally in a wide variety of manufactured goods as well as primary
products.
19.       Nevertheless the possibility of short-term cash flow problems
cannot be ruled out.  Difficulties could also arise if external
developments such as even higher real interest rates or growth in
protectionism undermine the Brazilian adjustment efforts. However, the
economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively resilient, and
policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances. WithL the Government's commitment to the austerity
program, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international circumstances and to
reorient the economy toward a more efficient development path for the
remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new
borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes described above.



-6-
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and upgrading
and expanding health services for the poor have received much Government
attention. Increased Government efforts have also been directed to
low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved provision of water
and sewerage services.  In part as a reflection of these and other
programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates from the
1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and welfare
improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains
were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as reflected
by improved access to public services, declining infant mortality, and
increased durable consumer goods possession by households, also attest to
significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the impact of
present economic difficulties on output and employment, however, there is a
possibility that some of these gains could be lost in the present crisis.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1984 the Bank had made 130 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,419.1 million (net of canceLlations), of which 68 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1984
was US$4,130.6 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans.
22.       Over the FY77-82 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. However, in FY83, seven
loans totaling US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9
million for a project to help finance the preparation of metropolitan
development programs for Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
US$154.0 million for a third feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a
second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and
sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a. second rural development
project in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a third
agro-industries credit project. For FY84, loans for US$52.7 million for a
market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million for
an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural credit
and export development project, US$'65.2 million for the third phase of the
Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$30.5 million in supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and US$20.0 million for a technician training



- 7 -
project, have so far been a.pproved. Loans for a Sao Paulo state health
project and for a federal highways sector project will be considered
shortly by the Executive Directors.
23.       Brazil's external, medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at about 4% while
its share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,007.77 million, of which US$631.15 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$376.62 million, US$298.29 million
represent loans and US$78.33 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At: the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs.  These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy f-or Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longe:r-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Execut:Lve Directors on February 22, 1983 are
reflected in our operations.  These include working capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of project
costs of recently approved social sector projects, supplemental financing
amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and rural
development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of the operation
of Project Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance
in order to reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share
of project costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at
the exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have



- 8 -
been approved by the Executive Directors. Given agriculture's large
potential contribution to export growth and import substitution,
adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's transition from
stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation: by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions, Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sLtes and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. The proposed project would
support the Bank's effort to improve the quality of basic education to
broaden employment opportunities to lower income groups.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in elecl:ric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain add:Ltional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 miLlion have been arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. Co--financing opportunities are
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more
important in the near future, however, and the new co-financing instruments
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with better terms and/or additional lending for high
priority projects.



- 9 -
PART III - THE BASIC EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
31.       The basic education sub-sector in Brazil is divided into two
cycles, consisting of the lower primary (grades 1-4), the objective of
which is functional literacy and numeracy, and the upper primary (grades
5-8), the objective of which is academic preparation for secondary
education. About 23 million students are enrolled in the basic education
sub-sector, and responsibility for primary education is legally held by the
state and municipal governments. The Ministry of Education and Culture
(MEC) provides the guidelines for education content, and provides transfers
of funds through the National Fund for Educational Development (FNDE).
32.       Although about 70% of 7 to 14 year olds are enrolled in primary
schools in Brazil, basic education in Brazil suffers from a high degree of
inefficiency. On average, only 38% of students who begin the first grade
complete the fourth grade within four years.  The most efficient regions
are the south and southeast (about 50%), the least efficient the northeast
(about 25%), and the North and Center-West regions are in the middle (about
32% and 38%, respectively). Net enrollment, defined as enrollment of
children aged 7-14 in primary school, is 58% and 70%, respectively in the
North and Center-West. There are three major areas for improvement in the
subsector; education content issues, education management issues, and
education finance issues. Each of these areas encompasses a series of
interrelated problems which need to be addressed in formulating a long-term
strategy for the sub-sector.
33.       Education Content. The generally poor quality of schooling
offered in the lower primary grades directly affects the efficiency of the
system by increasing repetition of grades and contributing to student
drop-out. Low internal efficiency, characterized by substantial repetition
in grades one and two--where only about 40% of children entering grade one
reach grade three in two years--also results in overcrowded facilities
which limits access for new students and diminishes the quality of
education during the first years of school. The absence of a well-trained
teaching force, shortages of teaching materials (including books, chalk,
paper, and pencils) and poor working conditions all contribute to the poor
performance of the basic educat:Lon sub-sector. In addition, the inability
of poor families, particularly in the Northeast, North, and Center-West
regions, to provide materials to students contributes to poor education
performance.
34.       Education Management. With the exception of the two remaining
federal territories (Roraima and Amapa), primary schools are administered
directly by state and municipal authorities, while MEC establishes norms,
policies and national plans, provides limited investment funds, and
technical assistance for the sub-sector. Three management issues for the
sub-sector are (i) overlap in state and municipal delivery systems, (ii)
poorly trained state level staff and shortage of municipal staff, and (iii)
the lack of technical expertise in education planning and management in the
poorer regions. The cumulative impact of these weaknesses results in
inadequate planning and poor al]Location of limited investment funds. Poor
school location planning, inadequate distribution of materials, and
the lack of adequate staff to evaluate municipal and state education
investment plans result in a dispersal of limited resources, and further
contribute to the overall inefficiency of the system.



- 10 -
35,       Education Finance. The federal governmient accounts for about 8%
of all expenditures for the sub-sector, state government for about 65%, and
municipal government for about 27%. The sub-settor accounts for about 62%
of all direct expenditures on education, and has grown at a real rate of
about 7.5% per annum between 1975-80. Despite t:he growth in expenditures,
the increase in financial effort has not resulted in commensurate
achievement in meeting national needs. Net enrollment ratios grew only
slightly, from 67.2% to 67.7% during the same period, and internal
efficiency remains low, owing, as indicated in para. 36 above, to the high
repetition rates in grades one and two. This is related to the inefficient
use of resources, low capital investment, and low wage levels for primary
education teachers. Primary teacher wage levels have been identified as a
key issue for the sub-sector, but require analysis in the broader context
of fiscal policies. The proposed program addresses some of these problems
by (i) linking education performance targets to the release of finance to
state education investment programs and (ii) providing for study on
longer-term planning issues, including primary teacher wages (para. 48).
36.       The consequences of poor primary education are transmitted upward
through the educational system, whereby higher grade learning is dragged
downward to compensate for the earlier inefficiencies. While not
quantified, there is no doubt that the cost of this inefficiency is
substantial, and transmitted outward from the education sector to the
productive sectors of the economy, contributing to lower labor
productivity.
Government Policy for Basic Education
37.       The Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education (SEPS) of MEC
has developed a general policy framework for the sub-sector, the major
objectives of which include:
(a) favoring the poor urban and rural populations with additional
resources to reduce regional disparities;
(b) expanding access of these groups to basic education;
(c) targeting in particular grades 1-4 of the learning cycle to
improve efficiency; and,
(d) strengthening management of the sub-sector.
38.       These policy objectives address a substantial portion of the
problems for the sub-sector. More importantly, however, they represent an
important shift in MEC's approach to investment in basic education. The
linkage of financial resources to priority areas, social groups, and
educational and managerial policies should provide substantial incentives
for states and municipalities to malke greater progress in addressing
critical sub-sectoral issues.
Bank Experience in Basic Education
39.       The Bank approved in FY80 a US$32.0 nillion loan (1867-BR) to
support the Fourth Education Project, aimed at expanding access to and



- 11 -
improving quality of basic education in rural municipalities in the nine
northeastern states of Braz:Ll. The project provides for schools, training
of teachers, educational materia]ls, and institution building and includes a
study to measure the results of the investments. The project is currently
about 18 months behind schedule, mostly because of a delay in
effectiveness, but a reprogramminrg exercise is underway, with a view to
reducing the delay in project implementation.
40.       The Bank strategy for t.he basic education emphasizes improvements
in efficiency and quality, rather than a large expansion of capacity. This
is partly because the financial resources required for expansion of the
network are not available. Moreover, recent research has observed that,
while returns to basic education investments overall are high, returns to
investments in education quality in Brazil tend to yield higher returns
than investments in expansion of access. The design of the proposed
project is consistent with this strategy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project for Urban Basic Education in the North and
Center-West of Brazil was prepared by the Government with assistance from
Bank staff. Negotiations for the project were held from April 2 to 6,
1984, and the Brazilian delegation was led by Ms. Patricia Bakaj, of the
Ministry of Planning. Special conditions are listed in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Strategy
42.       The proposed project addresses the major policy objectives for
the sub-sector defined by the Government.   Specifically, the project has
three major objectives: (a) l:o improve the quality and efficiency of
existing urban primary schools in the North and Center-West regions; (b) to
increase access to basic education in these regions by achieving greater
efficiency, and where justif4ed, provide for additional school facilities;
and, (c) strengthening federal, state and municipal basic education
institutions, particularly in terms of management capability and for
long-term planning in the sub-sector.
43.       The project would be implemented in  the seven states and two
federal territories forming the North and Center-West regions of Brazil.
These regions were selected because of their high average levels of
inefficiency (para. 35) and because of the expansion of demand for services
as a result of expansion of the agricultural frontier into the regions.
Urban municipalities were selected because of their relatively greater
ability to implement a program of education investment, and in order to
provide a basis for evaluating whether future expansion of the program
would be feasible. Urban municipalities participating in the program would
be those where population is greater than 20,000, with at least 50% urban,
and with rates of growth over 4% from 1970-1980. From this group, priority
is given to the municipalities which rank highest in indicators for
repetition in grades 1 and 2, drop-out in grades 1-4, intensity in use of



- 12 -
school space, and lowest in net enrollment rates for the school age
population 7 to 14 years old.
Project Components
44.        There are two overall project components.  The first, consisting
of national programs, would provide for measur es needed to undertake
long-term planning for the sub-sector, and to upgrade institutional
capacity at federal, state and municipal leve:Ls.. The second component
consists of the specific sub-projects for improving basic education quality
at state and municipal level in the nine states of the region.
National Programs
45.        To build managerial and investment capacity at municipal, state
and federal levels the project would support the establishment of a
long-term strategic planning team within the Secretariat for Primary and
Secondary Education (SEPS). The team would consist of an economist,
statisticians, and education planners. The main assignment of this team,
is to strengthen sectoral planning at thie federal and state levels. The
team would focus action on upgrading basic education statistics, developing
social demand indicators relevant to educational planning, utilizing
existing education planning models, improving unit-cost analysis, preparing
an atlas of educational imbalances and disparities, and analyzing the
impact of alternative teacher wage policies on state and municipal
budgets. The work of the team would be phased over the period of the
program, and would result in a series of reports suggesting the needed
measures to achieve further gains in efficiency for the sub-sector. The
studies would be completed by June 30, 1988 (Section 3.11 of the Loan
Agreement).  The loan would provide financing for technical assistance,
incremental salaries for technicians, local t:ravel and studies.  In
addition, state and municipal administrative capacity would be strengthened
through: establishment and/or revision of teachers statutes (the municipal
legislation which regulates terms of employment for teachers), a pilot
project to improve school supervision, and creation of project evaluation
teams in each state. Special projects to improve the quality of primary
education in the first four grades would be supported on a small scale.
State and Municipal Level Sub-Projects
46.        On the basis of five-year investment programs, the seven states
and two territories would develop specific projects, including those
proposed by municipalities to be financed through the project. The
five-year programs would take into account the likely availability of
resources to the state, and emphasize the use of existing resources.  The
projects would include state textbook programs, educational materials, and
training for teachers at municipal level. The remodelling of existing
facilities and construction of new facilities also supported by the
project, would be based on school mapping studies some of which are already
underway. The states would then propose, oIn an annual basis, a set of
projects to be financed through the program. The five-year program and
specific projects would be reviewed by MEC in light of the overall
objectives for the sub-sector.



- 13 -
Project Organization and Implementation
47.       An organizational structure at federal, state and municipal level
has been adopted to manage and implement the sub-sector program. A program
council, chaired by the Secretary of SEPS and including the program
director, was established in November 1983 to (a) coordinate and supervise
overall project execution; (b) approve annual operating plans of agencies
involved in implementation; (c) review program implementation on a
semi-annual basis; and (d) make policy recommendations to the Secretary of
SEPS as needed. On the basis of the council's review, the Secretary of
SEPS would authorize finance for specific state and municipal projects.
48.       A program management team, chaired by the program director would
provide the Program Council with the needed information to carry out its
functions. The management team would also coordinate the activities of the
five key agencies that are responsible for program implementation:
(a) FAE: would be responsible for the educational materials
component; and ]FAE/PNAE would provide technical
assistance to states for school nutrition activities;
(b) IRHJP: would be responsible for teacher training program
component;
(c) CEDATE: would be responsible for school facilities and
school mapping exercises; and,
(d) INEP: would monitor implementation of pilot projects.
49.       Appraisal procedures for state programs and projects have been
elaborated in project management and administration manuals, agreed with
the Bank. Three state programs have been appraised, and some pilot project
implementation has already begun. The appraisal of the state programs by
MEC was undertaken in September 1983 and served to test the feasibility of
the proposed mechanism for sub-project preparation, appraisal and
approval. At the state level the state secretariat for education is
responsible for preparing, in conjunction with municipal authorities, the
specific state sub-projects. Based on the proposal, and the review of the
proposal by a state level advisory council, the state sub-project would be
submitted to the Program management team for evaluation. These procedures
have been found to be satisfactory for preparing sub-projects within an
acceptable time frame.
Project Costs
50.       The total investment costs for the program for the period 1984-88
are estimated to be about US$80.1 million, of which about US$9.4 million is
foreign exchange and US$70.7 million local costs. Physical contingencies,
amounting to about 10% of base costs have been included. Base costs were



- 14 -
estimated as of January, 1984 and converted into US dollars.  Price
contingencies for foreign costs in 1984 were calculated in US dollar terms,
at 7% for civil works and equipment at 6%, in 19I85-86, and 5% in 1987-88.
No price contingencies were calculatted for local expenditures in 1984
because of the Government policy of devaluing the cruzeiro at a rate
equivalent to domestic inflation, wilthout adjusting for international
inflation.  A breakdown of the estimated cost is shown in the Loan and
Project Summary on page ii. The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million,
including US$ 100,000 for the capitalized front-end fee, would finance
about 50% of estimated project costs excluding taxes. This includes the
total foreign exchange component of costs plus about US$30.6 million of
local costs.  The higher cost-sharing and the financing of a share of local
costs will ease the implementation of this human resources development
project which the Government considers of sufficiently high priority to
proceed with in spite of the reduction in public: expenditures undertaken
for the ongoing austerity program. Retroactive financing of up to US$4.0
million would be permitted to help cover eligible expenditures incurred
after June 1, 1983. The balance of project finance would come from the
federal government through the MEC investment budget.
Procurement and Consulting Services
51,       Civil works contracts for construction and remodeling of school
facilities would total about US$26.5 million, with an average size of only
about US$300,000. Equipment and furniture will be unsophisticated in
nature, with a total cost of about US$4.8 million and with average contract
size of about US$30,000. Costs of educational miaterials are estimated at
about US$22.2 million. Because of the relatively small size of contracts
and the dispersed locations for projiect exectution, local competitive
bidding procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, and which do not preclude
foreign contractors from bidding, would be used. Procurement of items that
cannot be grouped into packages suitable for bid[ding would not exceed about
US$4.0 million, for civil works, about US$1.0 million for furniture and
equipment, and about US$1.0 million Eor educational materials. Bid
evaluations and contracts would not 'be reviewed prior to award but would be
available and reviewed in the field. Technical assistance costs for
external consultants average US$8,600 per man month, plus international
travel costs. Local consultant costs range from US$1,500 to US$4,500 per
month.
Disbursements
52,       Within the overall level oE cost-sharing (50%) disbursements for
technical assistance and educational materials, and for incremental costs
of project administration would be disbursed at 80% and 60%, respectively,
for 1984 and 1985. After 1985 disbursements for these categories would
decline to 41%. Civil works would be disbursed at 35% for the entire
investment period. The disbursement schedule was designed to ensure that
the required emphasis will be placed on quality improvement and institution
building in the early years of the project. The decrease in the Bank's
slhare of these components would provide a phased increase in the
Government's responsibility for incremental operating costs. Disbursements



- 15 -
for contracts of less then US$200,000 equivalent and for local expenditures
of less than US$25,000 each would be against statements of expenditure.
Disbursement for other expenditures would be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications. The Government would request the Bank to make
advance payment of up to US$3.0 million into a Special Account opened in
the Central Bank. Conversion from US dollars to cruzeiros would be made at
the exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure. The loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1990.
53.       Improved procedures for internal transfers of funds have been
agreed with MEC. In addition, to speed availability of funds to project
implementing agencies, an advance system for project funds, similar to that
recently approved for the supplemental finance of two agricultural
projects, would be established. Advances in cruzeiros would be made by the
Central Bank to the project account established in the MEC, which would be
passed on to state level accounts. The advances would be made against an
agreement between the Borrower and the Central Bank providing for a future
exchange of dollars on deposit in the Special Account for the cruzeiros
advanced. The advance system would function exclusively with government
resources, and would not mcodify the existing procedures for the Special
Account. Adoption of the improved procedures and establishment of the
advance system would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c and
d) of the Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
54.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. Copies of
the audit report on the various participating agencies would be provided to
the Bank within four months after the end of each fiscal year. The Special
Account would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(Sections 4.02 (c) and 4.03 (a) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Evaluation
55.        The project wou:Ld include an evaluation study, based upon
monitoring of sub-project results, to assess the project's overall success
in achieving its objectives and the feasibility of extending the project to
other regions of Brazil. A pilot evaluation plan, reviewed during
appraisal, would make it possib:Le to measure the project's effect on
internal efficiency in a sample area.
Project Benefits
56.       The proposed project would contribute to greater learning
achievement by children in primary schools in participating states and
municipalities.  The set oE activities provided for would reach initially
some 25 urban municipalities in the two regions, and the final scope would
include up to about 80 municipalities. The improvement in basic education
would also contribute to improv:Lng productivity and enhancing employment
opportunities in the regior. Additionally, institution building efforts



- 16 -
would benefit participating schools and municipalities, state secretariats
of eduation, and the Ministry of Education. Tangible benefits could be
achieved by reducing the student drop-out and repetition rate. An average
of 6.4 years of schooling are now needed to produce a single four-year
graduate. A 6% reduction in this period (to only 6 years) would yield a 5%
cost-savings
Risks
57.       There are three major foreseeable risks associated with the
proposed project. First, there may be further reductions in the investment
program for the sector as a result of continued financial difficulty in
Brazil. The risk has been minimized by provid:Lng a greater level of
overall Bank cost-sharing. Second, frequent turnover of project related
personnel, particularly at state level, could break the continuity in
project implementation. To limit this risk, salary incentives have been
agreed with the Government, and continuing project related training and
technical assistance are incorporated into the project design. Third, the
uneven implementation capacity of participating states could slow overall
project implementation. Provision of technical assistance to weaker
states, and the phasing of components to be carried out by states should
limit this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Article of Agreement: are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
59.       A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the adoption of
the improved funding procedures within MEC and the establishment of the
advance system for the MEC with the Central Bank (para. 56).
PART VI - RECOMMENDA1'IONS
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan,
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 24, 1984
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
- 17 -                                                      Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                                  REFERENCE  ROUiPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      I(MOST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
RECENT  Mb IDDLE INCOHE                     MIDDLE INCOME
196 1970/~  ESTIMATE/   LAT. AMERICA & CARIB             EUROPE
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                8512.0       8512.0       8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                         1621.3       1981.2       2209.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     330.0        610.0       2220.0             2088.2                      2453.6
ENERGY CONSUMNPION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        385.0        577.0       1102.0             1407.6                      1580.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   72594.0        95847.0    120507.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)          46.1         55.9         68.2               65.9                        47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                176.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  299.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           8.5         1.1.3        13.9               35.6                        82.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND               44.8         48.4        53.6                93.2                      157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (X)
0-14 YRS                            43.6         42.7         41.1               40.1                        31.9
15-64 YRS                            53.8         54.3        55.4                55.8                       60.9
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6          3.1          3.5                4.1                         7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.1          2.8          2.1                2.3                         1.6
URBAN                                 5.5          4.7          3.9                3.7                         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           42.7         :5.0         30.5               31.5                        25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           12.9         1.0.3         8.2                8.1                         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0          2.4          1.9                2.0                         1.7
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..        11.1.0       203.6/c
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOIZN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          89.0        102.0        128.0              113.0                       108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        106.0        104.0       109.0               111.3                      129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             64.0         62.0         61.0               67.9                        92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           35.0         34.0        36.0/d              34.1                       34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            19.4         12.5          6.9                5.3                        10.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          54.7         58.9         63.6               64.6                        67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         118.2         98.6         75.4               62.6                        71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  *          55.0         77.1/e             64.8
URBAN                                  ..         78.0         88.87e             77.8
RURAL                                  ..         28.0         56.87W             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         58.0         64.8/e             54.6
URBAN                                  ..         85.0         83.77e             69.8
RURAL                                  ..        :!4.0         31.77eW            29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2670.0      2130.0       1700.0/f            1776.0                      1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              2810.0       1120.0        820.07           1012.2                       762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               310.C        270.0       250.0/e             477.0                       334.0
URBAN                               260.0        320.0           ..              667.5                       216.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..             1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         1.8.4          ..               27.2                        20.0
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.1          4.8          4.9/e
URBAN                                  ..          4.6          4.77W
RURAL                                  v.          5.2          5.3rW
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          1.1
URBAN                                  ..          1.0
RURAL                                  ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                38.7         47.6         67.4                 ..
URBAN                                  ..         75.6        88.5
RURAL                                  ..          8.4        20.6                  ..
-----------------------------------------------------------------------_____ - ---__ ---------------------- ------- ------_____



-18 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
6RAZIL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RZIL                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MoST                        (MOST RLCENT ESTIMATE) /b
196l /b     /b  RECENT  /b          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1970-  ESTIMATE-    LAT. AMERICA 6 CARIB                 EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     95.0         84.0         93.0La            105.0                       102.2
MALE                     97.U         84.0         93.0/g            106.3                       107.2
FEMALE                   93.0         84.0         93.OAi            103.6                        97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     11.0         26.0         32.0/g,h           40.U                        56.5
MALE                     11.0         26.0         29.ODg h           38.6                        63.4
FEMALE                   1O.D         27.0         35.07&             41.2                        46.9
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)            1&.6         16.7         59.2/g.h           34.D                        22.4
PUP L-'TEACHEK RATIO
PRI11ARY                             33.0         28.0         26.0               30.7                        24.7
SCONDARY                            13.u         13.0         14.0/h             16.7                        22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                61.0         66.2         76.0               79.5                        69.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             7.6         16.6         50.1               45.6                        52.9
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           65.4        108.4        169.3              228.2                       165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              16.5         44.3        122.7              108.3                       124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               39.1         35.6         44.6/h             64.1                        96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         4.4          2.0          1.9 /h             2.9                         2.9
LAiOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           23326.0      30411.0      35254.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.2         20.L         28.5               24.8                        34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                51.9         45.6         29.9               31.3                        40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   14.8         18.3         24.4               23.9                        23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.1         31.7         29.3               31.3                        42.0
MALE                                 52.7         50.3         50.9               49.6                        55.2
FEMALE                               11.2         12.9         14.1               14.8                        29.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.4          1.5                1.4                         0.9
INCOMiE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
RIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS            60.0         63.39        62.0/c.
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              3.8          3.2          2.8W.
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             10.8          9.i)         9.477.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..           ..              289.8
RURAL                                  ..           .         150.O/c            184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           .,        465.0/d            519.8
RURAL                                  ..           .,        332 .07            372.1                       409. 0
ESTIMiATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                  ..
RURAL                                  ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmeti.c means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974; /g Beginning 1973 primary and secondary education cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
instead of 7-DO and 11-17 in earlier years; therefore most recent estiniates are not comparable with earlier data;
/h 1978.
May 1983



-19 -                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
~IEFiINIIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nouns:A01 hough the.aase dreotr   suresgeerIl  judged  tha eatauhr stin   o  rSble, it should .1sth   oe   htoe   a   o   ettrattl
descibe order  ofngitudo,tdon:                rns  at  cyrn eSe    oti                 byjo   differences- he -tueetcouflrie.
eacectised  Sntrett,  arfiagod of.. on%td_      aertauoet.    hee  oeaeoar  olycufldncnprtg  hetlu.o.                                 00  odctu  a  uttr  sngsh  cc             hryo
eSytuce-gocupd
Aitth (h.ehoossol_ eq.ha.)l ..Plpultto  perh  Pfdty-Il,n-y  uu  o    hle    ytn                                                                                        fpatoo
Toa      l oo   tuc   ae   opligSn  ure a-islnd   shas;I9Sf thhpudictadns 1'h                                               d_lte  sumdcl  cola   nnrhp          teoi
ItfI aod 198  dsha.                                                                      POOsstl-t-par hrstog.Pe-e           _ -  oo _totdnir  by_        nero.    ruoutytu
Me=                                                er.8-  -e l,ly                  _p.ills  'R     1.l uran  adraal  doledbytel  te eo ls  ohe  u  herta  hd
nalculaed  by sme onanrstot  rnh    asIo-d   tank-l  itla. (0-tI; b196;0aublhan                                cdtau. Ooptals eestobysen                    f pruserttytes te
19h7, 597d  sad0 eto  das                                                                               ra   en   n   hsca,hublsonspullgphcpll   otd
Ed   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~cr  aentIcue.Rrled_ hoepit l , has                                           j_r, iclud  h1_eha
IssEtuy  olupy                                -- AIA Anulaprs  "'saPt."  ofcPeuo                         sdclcners oot   p-eonannt- Psnoft     d,ed by a             -hsca   but byaf ete
prhnayesegy  (nat ad ltnlte -    p,t trollauh ,    reoalgs  n  hi!ydro,-ocI.rassnnd   ouf                             ,oloy..t..olhofe    o-a  en Iannat    n
dent,                                                                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rot  d   . bopiol  dioidod by theinbr  ot-i beds.   h-
60oo c1o9i7;0,       h,191,su  18  date. c_er-gebins ofj  foehlde (crton  yt  housuh_ ld) -.tnal  urban  and rura
ns970s  ncon  len9   ,so  totals lf   -npectancy -uotl Pern  t7                                      ollg  -npetnol.    sl igoao oe   o-Pamuenurutuauo
osttg6        aln   i  en lnP_cr  ngs  onu   erladpstlslylcs  no  lactlin  (ercnl                                                       fdn  loaEoa,ubn  an-drurl- -d
P  yPU tINlAND pIALfrne SAITICS  .oar   ate   etndteo   hs                                               .....Con 1nnhcna  dnn 'log   uitb  elcrtctt1p9 SnOoSnp oatrs  _t po_r_ ag
cohntoso   onltyadtrttyted   orpoaoo_uysa                                                           o   ou,ubn   o   ualdelnteyonay
pnulnonbtosetintd  n tiu bai  of. thepole  a  oburac,-tet-                                              .rnr   ac        ...i poycaoc nrmlyinudsctdnagdhi
idn~1L-so   h    ooatnS   h  yu 10   n   h   ueo  deolo   f                                            ya-1    ot  djuotad for dlharoot,  legbs  fptardd-nin 
toaara  Yehe,  101, andr. lMtI  un-.ouyn n-Ja-ly te1eto 1  yous 'o Ate;Itrtoopod-nce   ourse  ard
Prbs.  o.spiclnrl load -lonpunad 00 tohoo                y for  f-rlc liua  ludcn ll   oldd
Pnpolattoo Ao ltroctn,r  (percent E- Ibli-noit-1 y..ears), iordo-ae f  th..d.   ochloo , lodAtu,orthrpdrsobbocutldead
poultiu;180   9f, o   98   aa                                                                     POSltcchtrtlytnoy,an  atula Y-Icu                            Y sndatuon rollad  In
y ..lasioo Iruhht lret     tnl-ona   rshtote  oltrtotl sna-                                           yr       nducodt I--oa,s dIo...           h   uahon      d oft -1hr -o-ha  oo
peypouato,      frd  9             IIh 98-0  oP,d 190-I  rtoupoodlngl 7laPoolt.                                                   ~,  _
PtrolattooltnthOateloorcot  -orhat-AoualgroonhrotUotrbn                                dlt...ocraclo..o)-....t aotnuoo                               iradnarss
Irude BIrt  Raur Ipe- choumand  - Aconalt Mle blrtbs parthutnd   t  td
Ird lethRs   rot thuan)- 8000dfnapa   honn  o    dia ...arnyI                                          Cat (pr-hcuad           poplaooo  -  aonarcr.dpr                  co
trito; 196,10,ad10   aa                                                                       atsa'n   anca  ehcpcca   nldnublce     ers   n
Iroo  Rtynluolon   tto    honuga  utbu  oh I.. d   ..har  noosu    t_I beat InttttIyoatoao
her  orml rprodotto  yrlodItfbt tyrocupaen  ag-pcitndl2rocr    dpttosn    oplto)-C   t_so   eeo rt frtrad
totnt raht-oul-y  tlc-1,oary nttago   an dingInle h,11,adbodcant   ooodnlc   a   iuudo   oco  o;eou                                                                        s
191,lienrdnctcrtIncontlo   ndInytrtuhn  ogttotoiofrst
PaoShyplantinn- Arcotort ,Oaouol(nhousondu-aaoouelneero    tatr                              auu    cfet;dotato iacoo    eproncrtthcopanblytc   su
oftblrI-cnunro     troleu   nde    upSes of  rtanSonal fuacl  plttn                        conoo   hlfhdIc lg
yrooroo.le-ie1   lyt..                                                                     ID,T'IteeOor   prluadoauln-Ttclcafor                                         et
tosilytlanntno-Ooart (parcunt ofouroledoocan~~~~-rl-.Th teoo tao  o..a'olc                 totorX potlftyrhoolnoofnotldsnlatdtocn
onnulrodononcrlfcocoonttns. Poonclonocodsuaaad                                          tbodaly'lfthapyeaIF-rnathosfoclaao
hsad on, ta    , tnl   Ioaraa yonnc-cp-sceon IYts;-OhI-n, 191, an-190
yen'ergtqcott  fnttn P              yI  t   otlbeS   tnyprcyt  per                                    Itotuond1 unenpioted  hot etoludlog  hosoot.  tdo                 tc,ooru
apernttyskd   Midhnadoognionnu   tnesun   oy  egt,futo    upo ntou   oa   oo  dom;  96,,t  -91an   91b                                                                             aa
at houtotold  late); 1961-61. i871 ~ an ..90daa                                              andklalt--lt, to er  n   o   np  onueofttllbcfre   S
nntapl  offo  prdy.Ntnp70o  fn   t  eie -    g   d,AO   abort,)                                   tttnrto    otflttt  P-ocol  sol, e,h -ond                 r ien ll-PtrncSy_tfn  a
oerllnnne   0  lrm   of , toa    Pr,talo   edpn    lrs    faiasdpratgto -                                               oral,Y sula an -  oal7ccooc_n  faaaeraaniere
pulse   r 1t970 ofticd 0-tn    Ito ld h        -u uo -u protin._ ao16,  90   n   98   aa-hnrr    ao   n  l'   atji     o   ae
Percatt  putln5r,1  Ira  uep           ndp.n.      Po a   splyo  fo                               theCotallobo  fore.c
donnd  Dam slsos ed puseslo  raus per dy;  96-6,   i00a   10
data.                                                                                   ISCORtg-gDI1S5c.o.....
at birh; 190, 190 aud 191 dt.                                                                   nhodh         epoodnt             sdrher cot on
inatMralt   os(yttnundI-ooa  deth    f  nfouodo   neIslatd_bcltoPnet  InfoceLolya  911pa   aIt)- ct-adon
yer  f  gP pe  to.aany          ) lio  tiib;    n"  190an   11   aa.Aslut   cet r                                       lt cott ...t i  chat inhoso-             -dnl    e-oslbnn,
Monet 1of tcaf  Wata  (percent of y6oltioo  - i            tcs , uro  and o-1 ~i-                      naritoul!dquodr   loctnlloofn   eorsnuO   c
sntary al  10)t  S  prandga  oft        -I bia       h pet er payl-tinsdI  ao ld                     petcoltOcPe oPbrcunr. lba   onal is deivd ro thtra
oraorooull    ootloo  uadys  lcte   ntonothn711etr                                                    ltlutadunnntfr det                     oa   f  Sla   n  rla   res
a  ona  ay'o  ctededa  bein  o_th   Pt"ochl_ acen of   ntst                             SttsanodLPplto    en    btoetnroIcn   a'lIcmn)-ra
house,t  Rn totl  aereas_ restbecato._                  el   fntetasef    radrcl     a'n    fppltfn)ra   n   oal   h   r   aslt
kua-obeupol ltol,ubu,   ndurl                                         beerredbys...e...
sa   ooue9    b  oiecin   n  dispsal  -mOth or               196boo  1970nuant, of                   doionc an  SodS  hea lsnd
yeiviem  ond stullur loetol lotions.                                                                                                       Our f    elll,  _ ~ l  el,   1983



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population          120.5 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita:  JS$2,220 (1981)
Indicator                                       Amount                          Average Annual Increase (X)                      Share of GDP at Market Prices (-      )
(Million US5 Current)                     (at Constant 1970 Prices)                                (at Current Prices)
1983 b/                 1965-70      1970-75      1975-80      1981-86               1970         1975       1983 b/
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                                 330,500                    7.7         10.6          6.9          1.0             100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                             45,610                     1.9         5.7          4.7          2.8               10.2         10.9         13.8
Industry                                               104,770                    9.2         11.6          7.6         -2.0               35.8         37.2         31.7
Services                                               180,120                    8.0         10.7           6.8         2.1               54.0         51.9         54.5
Consumption                                               264,730                    7.7          9.8          5.7          0.5              77.8         76.6         80.1
Gross Investment                                           58,830                    9.4         14.6          5.2          0.1              22.7          21.3         17.8
Exports of Goods and NFS                                   23,730                    8.2         11.2          7.3          4.3                6.7          7.5          7.2
Imports of Goods and NFS                                   19,600                   14.5         17.2          2.8        -3.9                7.2          11.4         5.9
Gross Domestic Savings                                     48,580                    7.9         12.9          6.1          1.8              22.2         23.4          14.1
Axount                      Average Annual Ilcrease  (2)                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(Million US$ Current)                (at Constant 1970 Prices)                            (at Current Prices)
1983                   1970-75           1975-8(0      1981-86                    1970          1975         1983
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                       21,899                 11.1               7.7               2.8                    100.0          100.3        100.0
Primary c/                                             10,603                   8.3               1.1              0.8                      76.7          62.7         48.4
Manufactures d/                                        11,296                  28.2              18.2              5.6                      22.5           34.8        51.6
Merchandise Imports                                       15,429                 14.8              -3.3               1.2                    100.0          100.0       100.0
Food (cereals)                                             968                 -6.7              17.5              8.8                        4.5           3.0          6.3
Petroleum                                               8,179                   7.6               4.3            -11.0                      11.2          25.4         53.0
Machinery and Equipment e/                              2,505                  15.2             -7.5               2.0                      36.2          32.2          16.2
Other                                                   3,777                  28.4             -1.9               4.3                      48.1          39.4         24.5
1975            1976             1977            1978             1979            1980            1981          1982         1983
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                     305.1           444.3            632.7           892.5          1,399.4         2,724.6       5,696.8      11,108.8      28,272.4
Exchange Rate (Cr$/LUS)                         8.1            10.6             14.1             18.1            26.9             52.7          93.1         180.0         577.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)               176.0           192.0            226.0           228.0            266.0           290.0          252.0         220.0           0.0
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)              242.0            255.0            286.0           317.0            389.0           431.0         474.0          522.0           n.a
Terms of Trade Index (1970 = 100)              72.0            75.0             79.0            72.0             68.0             67.0          53.0          42.0           n.a
AsY  of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975               1979              1980 f/        1981 gj/  1982 g/
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                          16.6              19.8               20.8               20.1           18.9       21.2
Current Expenditure                                                                      14.4              15.8               17.6               19.8           20.2       25.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                                2.2               4.0                3.2                0.3           -1.4       -4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                       2.6               3.8                3.7                4.1            3.5        3.4
Financing (Net)                                                                           0.4              -0.2                O.S                3.9            4.9        7.6
1965-70             1970-75             1975-79                1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                                      7.7                10.7                  5.8                    0.9
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (Z)                                                           4.6                 7.7                  3.0                   -1.6
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (X)                                                       7.2                 7.3                  6.5                    -
ICOR                                                                                     2.9                 3.0                  3.9                   18.3
Marginal Savings Rate f/                                                                20.5                25.7                 22.7                    0.5
Import Elasticity   f/                                                                   2.2                 1.6                  0.3                   -4.5
a/   At market prices; components are net dowastic products expressed at factor cost and v,ill not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
b/   Estimate.
c/   Includes coffee (beans and soluble), other agricultural products., and minerals.
d/   Includes manufactured and semi-processed products.
e/   Includes transportation materials.
f/   The 1981-86 projections are calculated using the least squares method.
1980-1982 include government expenditures effected through the monetary budget and some minor government funds, as well as transfers to the
federal enterprises.
Source: Conjuntura Economics, FGV; Banco Central do Brazil; Brazil Standard Model (World Bank).                                                                  April 16, 1984



- 21 -
BAIANCJE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNA2L CAPITAL AND DEST                                                                                 ANNEX I
(million USS at cortect price.)                                                                                          P.ge 5 of 5
Populatico:        120.5 million (1981)
GNP Pfe  Capita:  USS2,220 (1981)
ACTUAL                                                        PROJECTED k/
1975         1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1991              1992       1983 h/         1994         1985         1986
Balance of Payeoto
N.a  eporto of gonda and cornicoc                          -6,702       -6,018       -4,037       -6,086       -10,039      -12,564      -11,173           -14,850       -6,278        -5,600       -5,300      -5,034
Etporte of goode                                          9,670       10,128       12,120        12,659       15,244       20,132       23,293            20,164       21,999        25,200       28,860      32,755
Imports of GOoda                                       -12,210      -12,383       -12,023      -13,693      -19,094       -22,955      -22,090           -19,397      -15,429      -16,194      -19,502    -20,897
Net factor incom                                        -1,733       -2,189        -2,556       -3,257       -4,821        -6,621       -9,549           -12,408      -10,349      -1I,902      -12,449    -13,343
(of ehicth  nt itcerea-  payota) '/                  (-1,499)    (-1,910)    (-2,103)    (-2,696)    (-4,185)    (-6,311)    (-9,179)                (-11,059)   (- 9,555)   (-10,843)   (-11,117)  (-11,382)
NSo   c            -o-factor corvicet                   -1,429        -1,574       -1,579       -1,805        -2,378       -3,120       -2,937            -3,200       -2,400       -2,804        -3,209      -3,559
Net tc..afera I/                                                2             1            -           71           IN          169           197                 -            -            -            -            -
Correct -.ccoof balance                                    -6,700       -6,017       -4,037       -6,015       -10,021      -12,396      -10,976           -14,850       -6,278        -5,600       -5,300      -5,034
Ditcct pri-ate inon-eot t/                                    892          959           810        1,071        1,491        1,121.0       1,569               991          660          690           700         732
M6LT I.ane  (eet)                                           4,830        5,542        5,650        10,018        5,297        3,475.0       9,483 4/         6,444         5,475        7,628        5,354       6,472
Disbor.et.-te                                           (6,982)       (9,160)      (9,283)    (15,164)    (11,728)    (00,085)    (17,339)               (13,777)    (14,666)    (16,500)    (15,641)   (20,861)
A-ortietloc                                            (-2,152)    (-2,610)    (-3,633)    (-5,146)    (-6,431)    (-6,610.0)  (-7,956)                 (-7,333)    (-9,191)    (-8,972)   (-10,287)  (-14,389)
Bra.iliano l-0n  abroad (net)                                -190         -240         -267          -357         -610          416          -702             -596         -440          -600         -850      -1,400
Other capita1 n.e.i. d/                                       219          956       -1,526          -455          628        4,063         1,313            4,011           593         -108          649            0
Change intreernee (--i-rco..e) 0/                               950       -1,192          -630       -4,262        3,215        3,321          -687            4,000             0       -2,000         -553         -771
Iot-roational Neoornea f/                                     4,041        6,544        7,256        11,895        9,699        6,913         7,600            3,600         3,600        5,600        6,153       6,924
Ricernee -  -ontho of imports !'                                  4             6.3          7.2         10.3          6.4           3.6          4.1               2.2          2.8          4.1           4.0         4.0
AG7UAL
1975         1976         1977          1978         1979         1980         1981              1982
Etonrnal Debt
iTt1 06LT debt -utatonding and ditbhoeed                  23,298       29,483       34,601       46,436        51,342       54,965       63,612            70,600
Poblic and publicly onoranteed                          13,706        17,349       21,595       30,284        35,478       38,260       43,820            47,589
Offlialcor1                                             3,959        4,431        4,717        5,401        5,989         6,416        7,244             8,178
Offi                                                (1,093)      (1,217)      (1,413)       (1,602)      (1,827)      (2,069)       (2.319)          (2,724)
Other                                               (2,966)      (3,214)       (3,304)      (3,799)      (4,062)       (4,347)      (4,925)          (5,454)
Ptivactenources                                        9,747       12,918        16,978       23,883       29,539        31,844       36,576            39,411
Pricare non-guara- teed                                  9,592        11,133       13,005       16,152        15,964       16,605       19,792            23,011
Ondioboreed debt (public only)                              3,879        6,62C        8,411        10,209       12,448       14,041       14,995            15,087
Grone Dioburar-nnt
Total groo.  diborteo-t of MALT Io.ne                      6,981        8,160        9,292        15,164       11,728       10,085        15,059           12,759
Poblic and publicly g-aractoed                            3,758        4,921        5,421       10,116         9,152        6,893        8,997             7,915
Oftf10100 enport ceedice                                  420          4071         169           490          448          467            29              670
0IBR                                                    232           173          290          275           302          343          387               623
Other e,ltilateral                                      119           113           92          136           206          192          189               216
Printue aourcea                                       2,991        4,233         4,862        9,216        8,197         7,892        8,393             6,416
Privatec o-g-aeaotced                                   3,194         3,239        3,861        5,048         2,576        3,192        6,061             4,844
Debt iervtce
Tctal debt cervice payp-nto                                4,195        4,322        5,642         9,252       11,147       13,168        14,969           16,629
Inrererc (net)                                         (1,677)       (1,423)      (1,651)      (2,457)       (3,555)      (5,412)      (7,778)           (9,296)
Paynecta an S of Eportr  of GN07                              43.0         30.7          42.3         58.9         66.8         60.0          58.1             75.6
Papyenttao 3 of GSP                                            2.9          2.6           3.U          3.7          4.3          4.8           5.4               5.3
Anerago inter--t rate on  eu cubliS  debt (;) i/                 8.7           7.6          3.3          9.9          11.2         12.3         15.2              13.3
offitcil seour,                                                7.7          7.9           S.8          7.5          8.3          9.1           9.8               -
boerage catucity of net gcraanteed loaca                         9.0          11.3         10.0         10.0          11.5          9.8          9.7               8.0
Official onorcer                                              18.4         16.3          16.1         14.5         14.0          12.9         13.8               -
Ptiouto noottec                                                7.0          0.3           8.7          9.3         11.2           8.7          8.9               -
IBRD Enpoc3re
1BRD DOD Total                                                 4.7          4.3          4.1           3.4          3.6          3.9           3.6              3.9
IB0D dibehjeoae-te/totol groo.  dibhrae-entc (S)             3.5          2.1           3.2          1.8          2.6           3.4          2.6              4.9
IBRD debt eernice/tntcl debt  -erni-e (S)                      2.5          3.2           3.7          2.7          2.2          2.1           2.2              2.5
An S of total MALT debt  otEstrodieg
Debt Structure                                                                   at the end nf December 1982
Mtarrtycttr ctret of MALT debt outotoodieg
Metoritieo  doe tithin   5 yecrc                                                          59
l.tcritieo  duo eithin 10 yeare                                                           95
April 17, 1984
0/ Incladen ononeae n cc aort tern nod MALT loans.
b/ Net trnoafere aft-r 1981 ore iecluded in  net ..c-fact-rnice.
t/ Rxcluding to-inne,ted penfito.
d/ I-cludes payment acreare and errort and omlcdine.
E1 e ctluding dollar nalcatio- adjcetmetc  and m-ntiiation of doectit gold.
fI Including gold and dollar nolnotioc adjoetprots through 1931.
01 iodod Ocly.
h/ Prelimnoary.
ij Publit debt only.
2/ Icclude. LY an d short-te- burrrtcig.
6/ Braeil atendard  -mdel (Wurld  artk).
Scouce: Banto Central do BOa,il; Ecteen-l Debt Dact, 1978-92 (RPD); IMP.



- 22 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                   Purpcose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Sixty-tNo loans fully disbursed                                      2)376.7
1008     1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do           Power                    81.0        1.2
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1075     1975  Brazil                           Roads                   110.0        8.3
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                  95.0        2.4
1152     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                  60.0       13.9
1171     1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista       Railways                 75.0        0.2
1195     1976  Brazil                           Rural Development        12.0        4.0
1207     1976  Brazil                           Feeder Rtoads           55.0         3.0
1317     1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry            83.0       29.2
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       42.0         4.1
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer              52.0          .5
1411     1977  Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer              55.0         1.2
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education               32.0        14.8
1488     1977  Brazil                           Rural Development        11.0        3.7
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sewerages              110.0        58.3
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural D,evelopment      24.0        16.5
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  130.0        26.7
1557     1978  Brazil                           Roads                  114.0        41.8
1562     1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals          85.0         1.1
1563     1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport         88.0         4.4
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0        40.8
1589     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       37.0        21.0
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sites and Services      93.0        20.5
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water and Sewerage    100.0         27.3
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0        1.9.1
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0        33.5
1721     1979  COPEL                            Power                  109.0        38.4
1728     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       40.0        27.2
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation              28.0        10.9
1730     1979  Brazil                           Roads                  110.0        47.8
1822     1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control       58.0        57.0
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply            130.0       40.7
1824     1980  CEEE                             Power                   114.0       81.5
1839     1980  Brazil                           Urban T'ransport       159.0       126.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0        48.1
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education               32.0        24.0
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Dlevelopment       63.0       57.6
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                   12.5.0      96.3
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0        36.3
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                    54.0       47.0



-23--                                ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan I   Year            Borrower                     Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
1965     1981  EBTU                              Urban Transport          90.0       68.8
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da liabitacao      Water Supply            180.0      123.9
1989     1981  Brazil                            Alcohol Development   250.0        179.4
2015     1981  Brazil                            Agriculture              29.0       22.3
2016     1981  Brazil                            Agriculture              60.0       37.8
2060     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              67.0       41.6
2061     1982  Brazil                            Health                   13.0        7.8
2062     1982  Brazil                            Highways                240.0      117.4
2116     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              26.4       21.5
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   182.7      160.9
2163     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              26.4       22.4
2170     1982  Brazil                            Urban Development       123.9      110.6
2177     1982  Brazil                            Rural Development        42.7       37.6
2193     1982  Brazil                            Urban Development         8.9        7.5
2196     1982  CVRD                              Iron Ore                304.5      176.2
2224     1982  Brazil                            Feeder Roads            154.0      137.7
2225     1982  BNDES                             Development Banking   220.0        104.8
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            302.3      258.5
2268     1983  Brazil                            Agro-Industries         400.0      374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                            Rural Development        67.8       62.3
2343     1983  Brazil                            Urban Development        52.7       52.6
2347     1983  Brazil                            Export Development    352.1        206.1
2348     1983  Brazil                            Agriculture             303.0       77.4
2353     1983  Brazil                            Agriculture              65.2       61.0
1729-1/1 1983  Brazil                            Agriculture               7.7        7.7
2060-17r 1983  Brazil                            Agriculture              22.8       22.8
2364-17T 1983  Eletrobras                        Power                   250.6      250.6
2365     1983  Eletrobras                        Power                   222.8      222.2
2366  /1 1983  Brazil                            Education                20.0       20.0
Total                                                  9,419.1 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                   1,413.8
Total now outstanding                                  8,005.3
Amount sold                               45.8
r
Of which has been repaid                45.8             0.0
Total now held by Bank                                 8,005.3
Total undisbursed                                                 4,130.6
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Dlirectors on April 30 and October 31.



24 -
AREX81 II
Page 3 of 3
B. SEATF>    OF IC 3fESNTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                                                                                               Amunt in US$ a1mLon
Year                                        O b I i g o r                                    Type of 8uslness                    * anM      Equity     Total
1957                  Sieens do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                              Electrical Euiipment                      2.OO       -         2.00
1958                  Olirkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                                   Pulp and Paper                            1.20        -        1.20
1958                  D. L. R. Plasticos do Brasil, S. A.                                 Autocotive Paita                          0.45        -        0.45
1958                  i8lUys-Owrland do Brasil, S. A. - Incustria e Camrreio               iZtor Vehicb5s                           2.45        -        2.45
1959                  Copanhia lffneira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                       C(eent                                    1.20       -         1.20
1959                  Chwpion Celilose, S. A.                                             Pulp                                      4.00        -        4.00
1966/1968/1972        Acos Villatea, S. A.                                                Steel                                     8.03       1.93      9.93
1966/1969             Papel e Celulsoe Catarirense, S. A.                                 Pulp and Paper                            3.78       3.41      7.19
1967/1972             Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Coeereio de Fertilizarntes         Fertilizers                               8.22       3.03     11.25
1969                  PetrcquimLa Uriao, S. A.                                            Petrodemicals                             5.50       2.88     8.38
1970                  Poliolefiras, S. A. Induatria e Comereio                            Petroc1i1cals                             5.50       2.88      8.38
1971                  Oxiteno, S. A. Industria e Ccemrcio                                 Recrocheaicdls                            4.60       1.44      6.04
1971                  Rio Graide - Comprania de Celnlose do Sul                           Pulp                                     4.90        -        4.9C
1972/1975/1981        Ccepanhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                              Cement                                  169.14      6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    Coapanlia Siderurgica da Guanabara - OSIGUA                        Steel                                   76.97       11.87    89.84
1973                  Capital Market Developmnit Fund - PUtSAP                            Capital Market Development                5.01       -         5.00
1973/1978/1983        Erpresa de Denvolvinento de Reurtsoa Minerais - 0C311MN, S. A.   Nidcel Miniig and Refining                 85.0        8.74    93.74
1974                  Irdnstrias Villares, S. A.                                          Elevators aad Inclustrial Equipment       6.00       -        6.01
1974                  Fabriea de Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                    Textiles                                 31.00       -        31.00
1975/1979             Capuava Carbtm   Industrias Ltd.                                    Carbon Black                              6.18       1.19      7.37
1975                  Oxiteno Nordeste, S. A.                                             PetrochEnicala                           10.00       -        10.00
1976                  Santista Industria - TextiL do Nordeste, S. A.                      Textiles                                  6.45       1.00      7.45
1976/1980             Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catariierms  do Nordeste                     Textiles                                 16.20       -        16.20
1977                  F3!B S. A. Productos MatalurgLcos                                   Iron and Ali3xrur Castings               20.OO       -        20.00
1977                  Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                        Minimg                                  5l0o         -        L5.00
1978                  Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                            Iron and St:eel                           7.00       3.01     10.00
1979                  Volwo do Brasil Motores e Veieu3os, S. A.                           Motor Vehicles                           60.0       5.27    65.27
1980                  Heting do Nordeste S. A. - Malias                                   Reay-rmde Garst=                          2,00        -        2.00
190                  Dende do Pare S/A - D0masa - Agriu3ltura, 3ndustria
e Ctnerdo de Oleaginmsas                                        Palm-Oil                                  3.50       1.00      4,50
1980                  Villares 3ndistrias de Base S. A. - V}A8A                           Irc and Steel                             5.00        -        5.00
1980                 PFf - Comp,ia Industrial de Polipropileno                            ChMieals and PetrodLr1cals               15.01       2.00     17.00
1980                  Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                           0ieicals arnd Petrodtnicals                -         0.25      0.25
1980                  Sotave Aazonia Quinrica e Mineral S/A                               Fertilizers                              35.00       6.00     41.0)
1980                  PolisuL Petroquidics                                                COIeals and Petrodeacals                 43.00       5.01     48,00
1981                  Brasilpar                                                           Mxmy aid Capital Marcets                   -         1.50      1.50
1981                  Carpaia  Brasileira de Agrqecuaria - 0CBAPE                         Food and lood Processing                  5.50       3.01      8.50
1981                  Triurfo                                                            CawcaLB mad PetrodmicaLs                 46.01       4.00     50.00
1982                  Cinento C8UE                                                        Csmmnt anid Corstruction Materials       40.00       5.00     45.00
1982                  Agrileasing S. A.                                                   Mxry Capital Market                      30.00       0.45     30.45
1983                  Cia Riograidee de Partidpaoes (CRP)                                 Mrmmy Capital Market                       -         0.11      0.11
1983                  Atlas Frigofico                                                     Food ard Food Processirg                 13.00       -        13.00
1983                  Ccmta Desnd  do Axmp  (CA)                                          Palm Oil                                  6.10       -         6.10
1943                  PISA - Papsl de Irema S.A.                                          Pulp & Piper Produwt                     48.28       3.50     51.78
1983                  Soww/S.A.                                                           Food aid Food Proessng                    3.0        2.50      5.50
1983                  cThD                                                                Cartt aid Contruction Materials          35.00       -        35.00
1984                   or hiA Alcoolquirca NXatlonl                                       OesMsa md Petroa C8       s              20.00       4.01     24.0D
Total Grote Cc tmnts                                                                             916.12      91.65  1,017.77
Low Cancallatioms, Tztoinstion, RSapants md SaLs                                                 617.83      13.32    631.15
Total C<  ints Nw 1Hold by IFC                                                                   298.29      78,33    376,62
TotaL Undisbrsed                                                                                 173.73      13.71    187.44
April 16, 1984



- 25 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
URBAN BASIC EDUCATION IN THE NORTH AND CENTER-WEST
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  8 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Ministry of Education
with Bank Assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       May 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:          May 1983
(e)  Negotiations:                         April 1984
(f)  Estimated Loan effectiveness:         August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Disbursement at a rate of 50% of eligible expenditure for the
program implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Studies on education planning would be phased during the
period of the program, and the set of studies would be
completed by July 30, 1988 (para. 48).
2. The project and Special Account would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. (para. 57).
3. A condition of effectiveness would be the adoption of the
improved funding within NEC and that the advance system for
project funds would have been established (para. 56).






IBR0 18031
VENEZUE               G)00             (RENCH                                                                     FERUR018
(VENEZUELA ~   ~ /SUR[NAME\GLJIANA
CO[OMB IA/                               QVSO      \ ~  
57
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                              y 0
~~~~~~.71                                          <         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fortaleza
A
Ri6l3i~~~~~~~~~                                                                                      -    0nNor
I L IN U                                                   J~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 .. .,9ecf
.>~~~~~~~~J
B 0   L I V I A                                                               2                 0 Solsmoo
0 0                           H--St.A           _0
(.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-20'                                                                                                                                                        20-/      IIV,o
\.PARAGUAY   k                                        .Piu
CHILE?                                                                       0                                B R A Z.I.0
I        -II.-                                                      RiooeJoeern        BRA Z IL~~~~
C,r t b+URBAN BASIC EDUCATION
(                     {..-o~~     Corrbo~~.                         SUBSECTOR   PROJECT
e-f  I   I               - .   <     ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .  .    I                      S~~~~~~~~~TATE   ETI EIo  1,0   MI CT-0010     P90.1LT
5SOUTH              `(r   0o                                                                                             1~  A
0'   BRAZIl   /          ~~~A  R G  E N  T  1,jN  A      '               00                                  0    ST-0 CAlT-
AME~RI CA                _TZ01, 01                                  Pco. A1,10000gre                                                 l 
0   I C0100110l011ll11 00ll01101,0110                  EOOTETEI:52~~~~~0o0. 20C
1l1100111. 01111301111      rURUGUAY/                                                                                       0
0I81110111l0T TOOl1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



I       I



