LOAN NUMBER 2412 BR
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Urban Basic Education Project for
North and Centerwest Regions)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1984


﻿LOAN NUKBER 2412 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          3&0                 , 1984, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL;(her inafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (here-
inafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested. the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts A through G, and H (iii) and (iv) of the Project
will be carried out by the Borrower in the North and Centerwest
Regions of its territories with the necessary participation of a
number of States and Federal Territories of the Borrower to which
the Borrower will make available part of the proceeds of the Loan
and the corresponding counterpart funds, all as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-project" means a set of activities: (i) for purpo-
ses of Parts B through G of the Project carried out or, if the
context so requires, proposed to be carried out, in respect of a


﻿- 2 -
Basic Education school under the jurisdi-tion of a Participating
State, or under the jurisdiction of a Se., .cted Municipality (as
the terms are defined in paragraph (c) and \,) below); (ii) which
has been approved by SEPS (as the term is defined in paragraph
(k) below); and (iii) which is intended to be partly financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) "North and Centerwest Regions" means the regions in the
Borrower's territories comprised of the following political sub-
divisions of the Borrower: the States of Acre, Amazonas, Goias,
Mato Grosso du Sul, Mato Grosso, Para and Rondonia, and the
Federal Territories of Amapa and Roraima; and each of such poli-
tical subdivisions will be hereinafter called "the State" and all
urban areas in such political subdivisions will be hereinafter
called the "Project Area".
(c)  "Participating State" means any of the political sub-
divisions (States or Federal Territories) comprised in the North
and Centerwest Region which has entered with the Borrower into a
Project Agreement.
(d) "Project Agreement" means any of the agreements between
the Borrower and a State to be entered into pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, and the term "Sub-Project Agreement"
means any of the a reements between a State and a Selected Muni-
cipality to be entered into pursuant to the last sentence of
paragraph A.2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(e) "Basic Education" means primary education comprised of
two cycles, lower primary grades (1 to 4, normally for students 7
to 10 years old) and upper primary grades (5 to 8, normally for
students 11 to 14 years old).
(f)  "Project School" means a school in the Project Area
under the jurisdiction of a Participating State or a Selected
Municipality within such State, which provides Basic Education
services for grades I to 4 and in respect of which at least one
Sub-project is being carried out or will be carried out under the
Project.
(g)  "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
(h) "Initial Deposit" means the amount of the proceeds of
the Loan to be withdrawn from the Loan Account through one or


﻿-3-
more withdrawals under Category (5) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(i) "Account Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the
Borrower's Central Bank and "Project Account" means the project
account to be opened and operated by one Executing Entity under,
and where advances shall be deposited pursuant to, Section 3.07
(a) of this Agreement.
(j) "FAE" means    Fundarao  de  Assistdncia  ao  Estudante
(Student Assistance Foundation), a foundation established, on the
basis of the formerly existing Fundagao Nacional de Material
Escolar, by the Borrower's Lei No. 7091 which amended, for the
purpose, the Borrower's Lei No. 5327 as amended by Borrower's
Decreto-Lei No. 979, and operating as a separate legal entity
under the Estatuto approved by the Borrower's Decreto No. 88295,
as published in the Borrower's Diario Oficial dated May 12, 1983;
(k) "MEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture, "SEPS" means MEC's Secretaria de Ensino de Primeiro e
Segundo Graus, and "SEAC" means Secretaria Adjunta de Coordenagao
of SEPS.
(1) "INEP" means the Borrower's Instituto Nacional de
Estudos e Pesquisas Educacionais (National Institute for Educa-
tional Research and Studies) established by the Borrower's Lei
No. 378 as a body with administrative and financial autonomy
integrated into MEC's General Secretariat, and which operates in
accordance with the terms of Portaria No. 612 of November 12,
1981.
(m) "CEDATE" means Centro de Desenvolvimento e Apoio
Tecnico a Educagao (Center for the Technical Development of, and
support to, Education) a body with administrative and financial
autonomy integrated into MEC's General Secretariat, all in terms
of Portaria No. 566 of October 8, 1981.
(n) "Program Council" means the Council established by
Portaria No. 121, dated October 21, 1983, as published in the
Borrower's Diario Oficial on November 3, 1983, as modified by
Portaria No. 032 dated April 5, 1984, as published in the
Borrower's Diario Oficial on April 10, 1984.


﻿-4-
(o) "Project Management Team" means the team established by
Portaria No. 31 dated March 30, 1984, in SEPs Coordenadoria de
Ensino de Primeiro Grau, which is headed by the Project Manager.
(p) "SEC" means each Secretary of Education in each Parti-
cipating State.
(q) "State Implementation Team" means the team in each
Participating State responsible for identification, preparation,
monitoring and evaluation, and sometimes active participation in
the implementation of Sub-projects, as to be provided for under
each Project Agreement in accordance with paragraph A.3 (i) of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(r) "Executing Entities" means each of INEP, SEAC and
Project Management Team, and the term includes    CEDATE, FAE and
IRHJP, these three being entities through which federal activi-
ties solely consisting of provision of technical assistance are
channeled, all in accordance with paragraph (c) of Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
(s) "Selected Municipality" means a Municipality within a
Participating State which: (i) (A) has been selected by the
Borrower to participate in the execution of one or more Sub-
projects located in such State, or (B) has been nominated to sub-
stitute one Municipality selected originally and included in the
list set forth in the corresponding Project Agreement, or (C) has
been added to the aforesaid list, all in accordance with the
criteria or procedures, as the case may be, set forth in Sched-
ule 7 to this Agreement; and (ii) which has put into force and
effect a teacher's charter (Estatuto do Magistdrio and Plano de
Carreira) or, which lacking one, has undertaken the responsibil-
ity, under the corresponding Sub-project Agreement, to have one
presented to its legislative body not later than January 1, 1986.
(t) "Advance Contract" means the Agreement between the
Borrower and Banco Central do Brasil referred to in Section 3.07
of this Agreement.
(u) "Manuals" means the documents listed in Article 1 of
Portaria No. 017 of March 23, 1984.
(v) "IRHJP" means the Borrower's Instituto de Recursos
Humanos (Human Resources Institute) Joao Pinheiro established by
the Borrower's Decred No. 38460 as published in the Borrower's
Diario Oficial on December 28, 1955.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in the Account Bank a special
account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 1990 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to ninety-nine thousand seven hundred fifty-one
dollars ($99,751).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of


﻿-6-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means:  (A) outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.10. The Head of the Project Management Team or the
person or persons he designates in writing is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MEC assisted by the Executing Entities with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and educational practices and with the Manuals, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, serv-
ices and other resources required for the purpose, including the
staff mentioned in the Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
maintain, local funding procedures, satisfactory to the Bank,
that will ensure that funds required for the carrying out of the
Project will be available to all Participating States and Exe-
cuting Entities on a timely basis.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into a Project Agreement with
each of the States, represented by the corresponding SEC, stip-
ulating the basis for such State's participation in the carrying
out of Sub-projects for purposes of Parts B through G of the
Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, includ-
ing those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1984,
enter into agreements with FAE and IRHJP, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of carrying out Parts B
and D, and C, respectively, of the Project.
(e) Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or fail to comply with any of
the agreements referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this
Section or any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project
Management Team, which shall be responsible for coordinating and
reviewing the annual Project operational plans and activities of
the Executing Entities, appraising annual State investment pro-
grams which will serve as a framework for such State Sub-
projects, initial screening of proposed Sub-projects, and circu-
lation to applicable Executing Entities for appraisal thereof,
supervision of institution building at State and Municipal
levels, providing the Program Council and SEPS' Secretary with
information necessary to carry out their Project functions, and
monitoring all Project activities, all in accordance with the
Manuals;
(b) maintain the Program Council which shall be responsible
for approving annual operating plans of the Executing Entities,
participating in the yearly review stipulated in Section 3.08 of
this Agreement and, reviewing and making recommendations to the
Secretary of SEPS regarding special implementation problems of
the Project or Sub-projects, or both, on an ad hoc basis; and
(c) channel, through the Executing Entities, all of the
Project activities at the federal level, as follows: CEDATE,
Part A of the Project; FAE, Part B of the Project; IRHJP, Part C
of the Project; FAE, Part D of the Project; CEDATE, Parts E
through G of the Project; SEAC, Part H (i) of the Project; INEP,
Part H (ii) of the Project; and the Project Management Team,
Parts H (iii) and H (iv) of the Project.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out all Parts of the Project other than Part D, the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-9
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when


﻿- 10 -
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out each Sub-project under Parts F and G of
the Project, and shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all documentation, satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, gathered by the Borrower from the Participating States and
Selected Municipalities as evidence that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) enter into an agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank with Banco Central do Brasil pro-
viding for advances in cruzeiros to be deposited by Banco Central
do Brasil, as and when requested by MEC, into a Project Account
to be opened and operated, by one of the Executing Entities on
behalf of itself and the remainder of such Entities and the
Participating States, exclusively for purposes of the Project;
and
(b) not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to comply or waive
such agreement or any provision thereof unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Bank shall hold, not
sooner than on June 1 or later than July 31 each year, a review
of all aspects of Project implementation during the preceding
calendar year. The first of such reviews shall take place in the
year 1984 and the last one in the year in which the Closing Date
shall fall. All of such reviews shall be based on such reports as
the Bank shall reasonably request pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of
this Agreement.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall ensure that no Sub-project
for purposes of Part C of the Project is carried out unless: (i)
the Sub-project in question is consistent with existing training
and teacher support programs; and (ii) there is an appropriate
network of institutions located within the corresponding State
or, if the case may be, Selected Municipality, for the provision
of the services in question.
Section 3.10. When reviewing and analyzing each Sub-project
for purposes of Parts E, F or G of the Project for approval, the
Borrower, through SEPS, shall take all such steps as shall be
necessary to ensure that the works under such Sub-project have
been justified by, and are within the framework of, the mapping
study to be carried out under Part A of the Project, and will be


﻿- 11 -
carried out in accordance with the standards set forth in the
Manuals.
Section 3.11., In respect of Part H (i) of the Project, the
Borrower undertakes to have the following items completed by the
dates specified below:
(i) upgrading of statistics and developing social demand
indicators, and   improving  unit  cost analysis, by
July 31, 1985;
(ii) analyzing impact of teacher wage policies, by July 31,
1986;
(iii) mastering Basic Education models, by July 31, 1987; and
(iv) preparing an atlas, by July 31, 1988.
In order to start taking the action required in respect of
each of the preceding items, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, for comment, not later than 6 months in advance of each of
the above deadlines, a draft report with the findings and recom-
mendations to be made by SEAC in respect of each of the aforesaid
items.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for


﻿- 12 -
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in-respect
of the Project, of the States and the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year


﻿- 13 -
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditure;
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall have the Special
Account audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to
the Bank and, promptly after the audit and not later than four
months after the close of the Account Bank's fiscal year, the
Bank shall be provided with certified copies of such audit,
together with a certified copy of the auditor's report, including
a description of the audit procedures.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Account Bank to furnish to
the Bank each month certified statements of the Special Account,
and from time to time such other information concerning such
Special Account, the monthly statements, and the audit referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any of the Participating States shall
have failed to comply with any of the provisions of the Project
Agreement in question;
(b) a Participating State and a Selected Municipality shall
have failed to comply with any of the provisions of the Sub-


﻿- 14 -
Project Agreement in question related to the objectives of the
Project;
(c) Banco Central do Brasil shall have failed to make the
advances referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement for rea-
sons other than those expressly stipulated in the Advance Con-
tract or the funds advanced by Banco Central do Brasil pursuant
to such Section shall have been used or allocated for financing
expenditures not eligible for finncing under the Loan; and
(d) Portaria No. 017 dated March 23, 1984 or any regula-
tion, portaria, or other administrative instrument dealing with
or related to any of the Manuals or providing for the local
funding procedures referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived, or the Borrower shall have failed to apply such Manuals,
all in such a way as to, in the Bank's opinion materially and
adversely affect: (i) the ability of the Borrower or any Execut-
ing Entity to execute the Project, or of the Participating State
or the Selected Municipality, to participate in carrying out a
Sub-project; or (ii) the timely availability of counterpart funds
required to carry out the Project; or (iii) the ability of the
Borrower, any Executing Entity or a State to carry out their
respective covenants, agreements and obligations set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement or in the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:


﻿- 15 -
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Banco Central do Brasil;
(b)  that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or
agencies, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or
given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and
to enable the Borrower to perform its obligations pursuant to
this Agreement, together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, have been performed or given;
(c)  that the regulations, portarias, instructions and any
other instructions and legal or administrative action necessary
to put into effect the funding procedures referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and the Advance Contract have
been issued or taken by the Borrower and its political and
administrative subdivisions or agencies; and
(d)   that the Borrower and Banco Central do Brasil have
entered into the Advance Contract.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that, no law, decree, or legal or
administrative provision other than those referred to in Section
6.01 (c) of this Agreement is required to put into effect the
funding procedures referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date   4 (J  eAY &    1574      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 16 -
For the Borrower:
Minist'rio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048-Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                           611506
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Ministerio da Educarao e Cultura
Esplanda dos Ministerios
70047-Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
SG-MEC                            611068 MNEC
Brasilia, Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in AA br.le'cr'
Pf &em4ia'e 14(S4.564r   Of e*ef%     as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By           g'  / w                   WZ
itnessed by Antonio Delfim Netto                     Authorized Representative
Ministro de Planejamento
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
AwA$A Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works                     10,400;000        35%
(2) Goods other                1,700,000        35%
than educa-
tional
materials
(3) Consultants' ser-
vices and educa-
tional materials
(a)                       6,300,000        80%
(b)                      12,600,000       41%
(4) Costs for Project
Administration
substantially as
detailed in the
Annex to this
Schedule
(a)                      1,500,000        60%
(b)                      1,200,000         41%
(5) Initial deposit           3,000,000
in Special
Account
(6) Fee                          99,751        Amount due under
Section 2.05 (a)
of this Agreement


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Unallocated               3,200,249
TOTAL              40,000,000
2.   Disbursements in respect of Categories (3) and (4) shall be
made first from Sub-Categories (3) (a) and (4) (a) until the
earlier of December 31, 1985 or the date on which the amounts
allocated to such Sub-Categories have been fully disbursed. Any
amount remaining undisbursed in each of such Sub-Categories after
December 31, 1985 shall be reallocated by the Bank to Sub-Catego-
ries (3) (b) and (4) (b), respectively.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $4,000,000, may be made on account of expenditures
made before that date but after June 1, 1983; and
(b) expenditures in respect of a Sub-project, unless the
Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the Project Agreement with the corresponding State and, if
such is the case, the Sub-Project Agreement between such State
and the Selected Municipality in question, have been executed and
are in good order.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation oA an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT
Disbursement against Incremental Costs
for Project Administration
1.   Salaries of additional staff of the Project Management Team
whose   services  are  assigned   full-time  to   Project-related
activities: (i) one Project Manager; (ii) one Project Coordina-
tor; (iii) nine specialists, with at least one in each of the
areas of teacher training, educational materials, planning, eval-
uation and administration, and training other than teacher train-
ing; (iv) one financial programmer; (v) one accountant; and (vi)
three support staff members.
2.   Salaries of supplemental staff of the other Executing Enti-
ties whose services are assigned full-time to Project-related
activities, as follows:
CEDATE:   (i) one coordinator; (ii) three specialists, with
at least two architects; and (iii) one support
staff member.
FAE:      (i) one coordinator; (ii) three specialists in
primary school textbook and educational materials;
(iii) one support staff member; and (iv) one
supervisor of school meal programs.
IRHJP:    (i) one coordinator; (ii) three specialists in
teacher training; and (iii) one support staff
member;
INEP:     one specialist in primary education; and
SEAC:     (i) one coordinator/education planner; (ii) three
specialists, with at least one education planner
and one economist; and (iii) one support staff
member.
3.   Salaries of supplemental staff of each State Implementation
Team: (i) one coordinator; and (ii) up to 4 specialists, with not
more than one in each of the following areas: training, education
materials, school facilities, and education planning and evalua-
tion.
4.   Office equipment, other than furniture, related to admini-
stration of the Project.
5.   Travel expenses, exclusively for purposes of the Project, by
the aforesaid personnel.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the Borrower's 1984-1988 investment plan for
Basic Education in the Project Area. The objectives of the
Project are: (i) improvement in the quality and efficiency of
existing primary schools (grades I to 4); (ii) expansion of
access to Basic Education for children in grades 1 to 4; and
(iii) building of the institutional-management and investment
capacity for Basic Education at Municipal, State, and Federal
levels of Government. The Project consists of:
Part A:   School Mapping
Execution by the States with technical assistance from
CEDATE and overall coordination by the Project Management Team,
of a school mapping study of the Project Area which will collect
data for determining the location of new schools to be con-
structed under Parts F and G of the Project as a function of the
possible refurbishing of existing classrooms under Part E of the
Project, and for improving standards and school designs for
school construction and remodeling.
Part B:   Carrying out of Sub-projects for the provision of
Educational Materials, consisting of:
(i) provision of a minimum of two and four books, .to each
student in grades 1 and 2, and in grades 3 and 4,
respectively, either through direct acquisition by the
Project School in question or through the Borrower's
Program for Basic Eduction Textbooks (PLIDEF), and
utilization of the books so acquired to cover the core
curriculum.
(ii) provision of essential teaching materials, a basic
student   packet   and   a  classroom-minimum-learning-
resources packet, to each teacher, student and class-
room, respectively, in grades 1 to 4 of each Project
School, to cover minimum needs for a complete school
year;
(iii) establishment of an adequate system of school libraries
in the Project Area, including: (a) a permanent library
collection in Project Schools to be constructed under


﻿- 23 -
Parts F and G of the Project or where physical space is
available, in Project Schools to be refurbished under
Part E of the Project; (b) traveling libraries which
would rotate among adjacent Basic Education schools in
the Project Area; and (c) libraries in large Project
Schools which will serve as a library nucleus for
surrounding Basic Education schools;
(iv) training of teachers, students and the community at
large in techniques of conservation and re-utilization
of student textbooks through a Textbook Bank Program
(Banco do Livro) to be applied to Basic Education
schools in the Project Area.
Part C:   Carrying out of Sub-projects for the provision of
Training and Teacher Support Services, consisting of:
(i) short-term, in-service    teacher  training  courses in
specific priority skills organized at the State level
for Project School teachers of grades 1 to 4, in
specific priority skills including: (a) literacy and
numeracy in grades 1 and 2; (b) use of textbooks and
other teaching materials; (c) alternative teaching
methods and classroom organization; (d) interaction
between a school and the community it serves; and (e)
implementation of the Textbook Bank Program included in
Part B (iv) of the Project; and
(ii) short-term training courses for Project School prin-
cipals and supervisors oriented toward: (a) improving
school administration practices; (b) initiating school
consumable-materials budgets; (c) providing pedagogical
support for teachers; and (d) creating a permanent
staff-development environment in the school; and
(iii) initial and in-service training courses in hygiene and
food  storage   for  Project  School   cooks  and  meal
supervisors.
Part D:   Carrying out of Sub-projects for Student Nutrition
consisting of:
Ci) construction and equipping of feeding facilities in
each Project School to be constructed under Parts F and


﻿- 24
G of the Project and, if warranted, remodeling and re-
equipping feeding facilities of schools to be refur-
bished under Part E of the Project; and
(ii) specific supervision of on-going nutrition programs, to
be done by means of visits by FAE's supervisors and
provision of technical assistance thereby.
Part E:   Carrying out of Sub-projects for the Refurbishing of
Existing Schools for Grades 1 to 4 which are in Poor
Condition, consisting of:
Refurbishing, furnishing and equipping inadequate classrooms
in existing schools in Project Area, including, in selected
cases, the replacement of certain classrooms.
Part F:   Carrying out Sub-projects for the purpose of reducing
excess utilization of existing facilities, consisting
of:
Construction, furnishing and equipping new schools in cities
in the Project Area where existing facilities are operating with
three or more shifts daily.
Part G:   Carrying out Sub-projects for the provision of Addi-
tional Project School Facilities for Grades 1 to 4,
consisting of:
Construction, equipping and furnishing of additional schools
to expand student access to the first four grades of primary
school.
Part H:   Building Institutional Management and Investment Capa-
city, consisting of:
(i) Long-term planning and pre-investment activities in the
education sector at federal and state levels, by a
special task force operating under SEAC, with emphasis
on upgrading Basic Education statistics and developing
relevant social demand indicators, mastering the most
common Basic Education planning models, improving unit
cost analysis, analyzing the impact of alternative
teacher wage policies on federal, state and municipal
budgets, and overall budget trends, and preparing an
atlas of imbalances and disparities in Basic Education.


﻿- 25 -
(ii) Execution of special projects in the North and Center-
west Regions in any one of the following fields: (a)
teaching literacy in grades 1 and 2; (b) techniques for
training untrained grade 1 and 2 teachers;(c) increas-
ing student time available for learning; and (d) im-
proving school administration.
(iii) Strenthening state and municipal educational authori-
ties by means of: (a) regular training and technical
assistance to the State Implementation Teams on moni-
toring and financial aspects of Sub-project implementa-
tion; (b) technical and professional training for state
and municipal personnel directly involved in the prep-
aration and implementation of Sub-projects, including
fellowships, study tours, seminars and workshops; (c)
supplementing services of state or municipal personnel,
or both, required for the implementation of the Sub-
projects in question; (d) acquisition and utilization
of equipment and consumable materials required by each
State for the implementation of Sub-projects; and (e)
strengthening of certain state or municipal educational
authorities, or both, in specific aspects of Sub-
project implementation.
(iv) Enhancement of capabilities for project monitoring and
evaluation at State and Federal levels.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1989.


﻿- 26 -
SCREDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1988
through   February 15, 1999                1,665,000
On August 15, 1999                              1,705,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years                                  1.00
before maturity


﻿- 28 -
SC1EDUL 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 29 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids     offering  goods manufactured   in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the
complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding (i) to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of
(A) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a
non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of
goods offered in such group B bid, or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of
goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount


﻿- 30 -
equal to the smaller of (A) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in
such group B bid if they originated from the same foreign country
as the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs
duties and other import taxes, or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, the bid
from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined
under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts  for   civil  works  for  Sub-projects  under
Parts B (iii), D (i), E, F or G of the Project or for goods
grouped pursuant to paragraph 2 below or for printing services,
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding procedures
locally advertised, to the extent that the procedures in question
are satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods, shall be grouped in sizable pack-
ages so as to enable competitive bidding procedures locally
advertised for the procurement of such contracts. Contracts that
cannot be so grouped shall be procured after soliciting and
obtaining not less than three quotations from reputable suppliers
within Brazil, and shall be awarded to the supplier who quotes
the lowest price; provided, however, that the contracts so
awarded shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$1,000,000, $600,000 and $350,000, for educational materials,
furniture and equipment, respectively.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Except for contracts on account of which withdrawals are
allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 31 -
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform, the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for the remodeling and refurbishing of existing
schools under Part D.1 and E, respectively, may be carried out by
force account of a Participating State, to the extent that the
aggregate of works to be so procured does not exceed the
equivalent of $4,000,000.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Categories" means, collectively, Category 1,
Category 2, Category 3 and Category 4, all of the table in para-
graph I of Schedule I to this Agreement, and the term "Category"
means any one of them; and
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Categories in accordance with
the provisions of, and in the percentage stipulated in, the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule. The Account Bank shall authorize withdra-
wals from the Special Account on the basis of the evidence that
the Bank shall have reasonably determined and provided that: (i)
payment of the corresponding Eligible Expenditures has been made
out of the Project Account; or (ii) funds for such payment are
readily available in the Project Account. For each such withdra-
wal so authorized, the Account Bank shall debit the Special
Account with the dollar equivalent of the amount of the Eligible
Expenditures in question in cruzeiros or any other currency other
than dollars, determined on the basis of the rate of exchange
between the dollar and such currency in effect at the time each
payment for Eligible Expenditures was made.
3.   The Bank shall, at the request of the Borrower, and after
evidence satisfactory to the Bank of the establishment of the
Project Account has been furnished to the Bank, withdraw on
behalf of the Borrower from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account the Initial Deposit. The amount of the Initial
Deposit originally allocated to Category (5) of the Table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may at the
request of, and by notice to the Borrower, be increased in order
to adjust the level of the Special Account to the disbursement
requirements of the Project. In such cases, the Bank may also
adjust the amount formerly allocated to the aforesaid Category
(5). Deposits other than the Initial Deposit(s) shall be made in


﻿- 33 -
the Special Account on the basis of requests by the Borrower
furnished to the Bank at such intervals as the Bank shall spe-
cify. If so requested, the Bank shall further so withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts equal to payments made out of the Special Account
for Eligible Expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount
of any such deposit, together with any amount remaining on depo-
sit in the Special Account as of the date of such request, shall
not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of the Initial Depo-
sit. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each such deposit
other than the Initial Deposit shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Loan Account under the respective Category or Catego-
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Bank into the Special Account other than the
Initial Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall
reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, any request for a further deposit into the Special Account
may be denied by the Bank (a) when the Bank shall have determined
at any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Categories minus the amount of any outstanding qualified agree-
ment to reimburse entered into by the Bank and of any outstanding
special commitment made by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions, with respect to the Categories, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Initial Depo-
sit, as such amount might have been adjusted pursuant to para-
graph 3 hereof. Withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, be
made only after and to the extent the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.


﻿- 34-
6.   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evi-
dence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and, unless
otherwise agreed by the Bank, prior to any further deposit into
the Special Account by the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified; or
(b) any a-mount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, and
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, refund to the Bank such
amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 6
The Project Agreements and
the Sub-project Agreements
(A) Project Agreements
The terms and conditions of each Project Agreement to be
signed between the Borrower and each State shall include (but not
be limited to) those set forth below. As an annex to each such
Agreement, there will be (i) a list of the Municipalities within
the State included in the Project in accordance with the criteria
set forth in 1 (a), 1 (b) and 1 (c) of Schedule 7 to this Agree-
ment; and (ii) a Municipality substitutability provision as set
forth in such Schedule 7.
1.   Whenever used in the Project Agreement, unless the context
shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement will maintain, after translated, the meanings therein
set forth.
2.   Each State shall participate in      the execution of Sub-
projects with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational and financial practices,
and the Borrower shall transfer, as a grant, to each State the
portion of the proceeds of the Loan and the federal counterpart
funds required for the purpose. The State shall refrain from
taking any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by an Executing Entity of any of its respective
covenants, agreements and obligations contained in the Project
Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all action which
shall be necessary to enable the Executing Entities to perform
such covenants, agreements and obligations. Whenever the Sub-
project will be carried out in respect of a school under the
jurisdiction of a Selected Municipality, the State shall enter
into an agreement (Sub-project Agreement) whereby it shall under-
take such obligations and cause the Selected Municipality to
undertake such other obligations additional to those set forth in
Parts B and C of this Schedule, all as shall be necessary to
ensure compliance by the State of its respective obligations
under the Project Agreement.
3.   Each State shall: (i) establish, staff and maintain until
the completion of the Project, a State Implementation Team, in
accordance with the Manual de Programagao e Ger6ncia included in


﻿- 36 -
the Borrower's Portaria No. 017 dated March 23, 1984, through
which the State shall discharge its obligations under the Project
Agreement. Such Team shall be established within each State's
respective SEC and assisted and supported, whenever necessary, by
technical staff from the Executing Entities, and shall liaise
with the Project Management Team for purposes of Part H (iii) of
the Project; and (ii) deliver to Project Management Team the
available information necessary for the preparation of the
reports referred to in Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement.
4.   Each State shall: (i) enable the Bank's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites includ-
ed in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; (ii)
take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to
the Project Management Team, promptly after each such acquisi-
tion, evidence satisfactory to the Borrower. and the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purpo-
ses related to the Project; (iii) cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree; and
(iv) adequately maintain or cause to be maintained the buildings,
equipment and furniture of the educational institutions included
in the Project and make, or cause to be made, all necessary re-
pairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound admin-
istrative and.technical standards.
5.   Each State shall, in order to be assisted in its participa-
tion in Sub-projects and for purposes of Part H (iii) of the
Project, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; such consultants to be selected in accordance with princi-
ples and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
6.    Each State shall ensure that the procurement of the goods
and civil works required for Sub-projects located in such State
and financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 37 -
7.   Each State shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or shall make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
8.   Each state shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate
accounts and records adequate to reflect, in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the part of the Project
under the responsibility of each such State, of the departments
or of the agencies of such State responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project.
9.   Before any construction is being undertaken in respect of
a Sub-project for Parts D.1, E, F or G, and particularly in the
case of remodeling, the State shall make available to the Proj-
ect Management Team a pluriannual investment program, financial
plan included, for the general maintenance of the school or
schools in respect of which the Sub-project in question is to be
carried out, and a commitment to operate such school or schools
on a maximum of two daytime shifts.
10. Each State shall accept that each Sub-project shall be
identified, prepared, appraised, executed, supervised, monitored
and evaluated, all in accordance with the Manuals and, particu-
larly, that the principles stipulated in B.3 below shall be
applied in carrying out Sub-projects under Part C of the Project.
B.   Sub-Project Agreements
The terms and conditions of each Sub-project Agreement to be
signed between a State and each Selected Municipality located
within such State's territory shall, in addition to those obliga-
tions to be undertaken by the Selected Municipality, pursuant to
the last sentence of A.2 of this Schedule, include those set
forth below:
1.   Each Municipality shall establish and adequately staff its
implementation team.
2.   Each head of a Municipal Government (Prefeito) of any of the
Selected Municipalities lacking a teachers' charter as described
below shall, present to the respective legislative body (Camara
Municipal) a bill to establish a teachers' charter (Estatuto do
Magistgrio and Plano de Carreira) to define teachers' rights and
duties, privileges and obligations.


﻿- 38 -
3.   Each Municipality shall: (I) (i) in selecting candidates for
courses under Part C of the Project, grant priority to those
teachers already employed in Project Schools under its jurisdic-
tion; (ii) not terminate, without due cause, the employment, in
schools under its jurisdiction, of the teachers successfully com-
pleting such courses, for at least 2 years after the end of such
courses; (iii) grant priority to teachers successfully completing
such courses on the application of the benefits and privileges
under the teachers' charter; and (iv) in hiring teachers for
Project Schools, require that such teachers (a) have a minimum
educational level corresponding to the fourth grade of basic
education; (b) be already trained or receive training in teaching
techniques under Part C of the Project; and (c) teach a minimum
of one four-hour shift per day during the academic year; and (II)
in selecting candidates for courses under Part C (ii) of the
Project, require: (i) a minimum educational level corresponding,
at least, to the end of secondary education; and (ii) substantial
teaching supervisory experience.
4.   Each Municipality shall:
(i) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents;
(ii) take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the Project and shall
furnish to the State Implementation Team, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project;
(iii) cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree; and
(iv) adequately maintain or cause to be maintained the
buildings, equipment and furniture of the educational institu-
tions included in the Project and make, or cause to be made, all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound administrative and technical standards.


﻿- 39 -
5.     Each Municipality shall participate in the execution of
Sub-projects with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
with appropriate administrative, educational and financial prac-
tices, and the State in whose territory the Municipality is
located shall transfer to each Municipality, as a grant, the
portion of the proceeds of the Loan and of the federal counter-
part funds required for the --urpose.
6.    Each Municipality shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the part of the Project under the
responsibility of each such Municipality.
C.   Project Agreement and Sub-project Agreements
All of these Agreements will have a clear description of the
mechanism and procedures for the flow of Loan        proceeds and
federal counterpart funds, including those to be established
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b), 3.07 (a) and 2.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿- 40 -
SCHEDUIE 7
Substitution and Addition of Municipalities
1.   In the event that, after a reasonable period of time, a
Sub-Project Agreement is not signed between a State a           a
Municipality designated in the respective State's Project Agree-
ment with the Borrower, the State may propose to the Project
Management Team the substitution of any such Municipality by
another one, chosen in accordance with the following criteria,
which are also to be applied in selecting the original Munici-
palities or in adding more Municipalities to the original ones:
(a) Municipalities with a population greater than 20,000,
of which not less than -50% is urban and whose rate of growth
between 1970 and 1980, both inclusive, has been greater than 4%.
(b) From those Municipalities which fulfilled the criteria
set forth in (a) above, all those which are above or below (as
the case may be) the corresponding State average for the follow-
ing indicators, will be the object of a further selection to be
made giving first priority to those Municipalities which rank:
(i) highest in: (A) repetition in grades 1 and 2; (B) dropout
from grades 1 to 4; (C) frequency of the use of school space; and
(ii) lowest in: net enrollment rates for children from 7 to 14
years of age. These indicators will be obtained in respect of all
schools within a Municipality.
(c) Municipalities being assisted in construction of facil-
ities by means of the integrated rural development projects being
carried out by the Borrower and financed by the Bank, would be
selected only for Sub-projects under Part B, C or D of the Proj-
ect.
2.   Upon receipt of proposals from each State, the Project Man-
agement Team will review them to assure that the proposed Munici-
palities have been selected in accordance with the above criteria
and that the number of classrooms to be built or remodelled and
educational personnel to be trained under the Sub-project in
question, when added to the classrooms to be built and personnel
to be trained under other Sub-projects in the same State, are
within the financial limits for such State.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -        day of$, 198%
FOR SECRETARY


