Report No. PID5869
Project Name                     Yemen-Privatization Support Project (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       YEPE49735
Borrower                         Republic of Yemen
Implementing Agencies            Technical Privatization Office in the
Ministry of Planning;
and concerned Ministries, including
Communications; Industry; Oil
and Mineral Resources; and Transport.
Contact:        Dr. Jaffer Abdullah Shotah
Acting Director
Technical Privatization Office (TPO)
Ministry of Planning and Development
PO Box 175
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Telephone: (967-1) 250109
Fax: (967-1) 250109
Initial PID prepared             December 1997
Project appraisal date           May 24, 1998
Project Board date               July 21, 1998
Country and Sectoral Background
1.      As part of comprehensive economic reforms, the Government of Yemen
initiated a privatization program in early 1995 that aims to privatize about
70 percent (in employment terms) of its 212 public enterprises (PE) by the
year 2000. This program is an important element in a growth-oriented
development strategy that focuses on improving the climate for private sector
investment and increasing the efficiency of resource allocation. The
successful implementation of macroeconomic reforms during the past two years
has stabilized the economy and helped to restore business confidence. In the
continued pursuit of these reforms, privatization commands priority for
rebalancing public/ private sector roles in the economy, improving economic
efficiency and quality of services, containing budgetary deficits and
contingent liabilities, and accelerating private sector-led growth and
investment. Credible privatization actions are seen by the Government as
being essential for signaling to the world market and investors Yemen's
commitment to economic reform and its attractiveness as a place to do business
in the Middle East.
2.      The privatization program has gained initial momentum by focusing on the
privatization of smaller enterprises in the tourism sector and the return of
farms to their original owners. Over the period 1998-2000, the Government
intends to accelerate the pace of privatization as part of its program to
pursue further economic reforms. This new phase would focus on expanding
institutional capacity for privatization, accelerating the privatization of



larger public enterprises as well as the smaller enterprises, and attracting
non-local investors (both expatriate Yemenis and foreigners) into the process.
In support of this approach, the proposed Privatization Support Project (PSP)
would assist the Government to accelerate its capitalization and privatization
program during the three-year period from 1998 to 2000.
The Proposed Project
3.      The proposed project's primary objectives are: (i) to help develop the
institutional capacity in Yemen to manage and implement the Government's
overall privatization program; and (ii) to provide additional targeted
assistance for the efficient and transparent divestiture of a small number of
major public sector assets and enterprises. The proposed project includes
three main components:
a) Institutional Support Component: This component comprises support mainly
for technical assistance services and training for the technical privatization
office (TPO) and the concerned ministries managing the project. In addition
to the TPO, privatization teams would be established in the line ministries;
b) Major Transactions Component: This component comprises assistance mainly
for legal and financial advisory services for the preparation for sale of
major enterprise assets, and also for consulting services to help address any
associated policy and regulatory issues should that be necessary for efficient
and effective operations of the newly capitalized or privatized enterprises.
Such policy and regulatory measures would likely include the establishment of
preliminary regulatory mechanisms for the telecommunications sector. The
major enterprise assets that are being considered for privatization assistance
under the project, and the associated ministries, include: (i) Yemen Air
Transport Sector, Yemen Surface Transportation Sector (Ministry of Transport);
(ii) Yemen Cement Company, Yemen Drug Company (Ministry of Industry); (iii)
Yemen Telecommunications Sector (Ministry of Communications); and (iv) Aden
Refinery (Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources).
c) Programmatic Transactions Component: This component comprises assistance
for the preparation of smaller assets for privatization, to cover part of the
incremental costs of the privatization program to the line ministries. Such
costs could include those for legal and financial advisory services and
advertising that may be required for the transactions.
Cost and Financing
4.      Project costs are provisionally estimated to total about $20 million
equivalent, including about $2 million for the Institutional Support
Component, about $14 million for the Major Transactions Component, and about
$4 million for the Programmatic Transactions Component. These cost estimates
will be refined during appraisal currently scheduled for about February 1998.
The proposed IDA credit would finance most of these costs which would comprise
mainly technical assistance. In addition, a Japanese PHRD grant of $450,000
equivalent has been signed to help finance project preparation work and to get
an early start on the implementation of some of the privatization
transactions.
Risks and Benefits
5.      There is a risk that local opposition could mount during the course of
the privatizations and weaken the Government's commitment to and support of
the project. There are also risks that the TPO and the line ministries may
-2 -



have difficulty building and sustaining sufficient institutional capacity to
manage and carry out the privatization program efficiently and effectively,
and that investor interest and enthusiasm may not be adequate for effective
marketing of the major assets targeted for privatization. Concerted efforts
would be made in the design and preparation of the project to help mitigate
these risks.
6.      Project benefits are expected to include improvements in: (a) private
sector investment and business opportunities; (b) the government budgetary
position; and (c) the efficiency and quality of the services and products of
the privatized enterprises.
Implementation
7.      The Borrower would be the Republic of Yemen.    The project would be
implemented by the Technical Privatization Office and several ministries,
including the Ministry of Communications, the Ministry of Industry, the
Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources and the Ministry of Transport.
Poverty Category
8.      Not applicable.
Environmental Category
9.      This project is classified under category C (no significant environmental
impact). However, to the extent that environmental issues become apparent
during the strategic screening of the enterprise assets, appropriate measures
would be included in the privatization transactions to promote environmental
responsibility.
Program Objective Categories
10.     The proposed project would support developments in two of the World
Bank's areas of special operational emphasis, namely private sector
development, and economic management.
Contact Point:           Mr. Deane Jordan, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington DC, 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2609
Fax: (202) 522-2151
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending May 29, 1998.
- 3 -



