                                           Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                               Report No. 26146




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
                                       (Credit 32980-YEM)

                                               ON A

                                             CREDIT

                             INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.1MILLION

                               (US$10.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OFYEMEN

                                              FOR A

                              PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT


                                          June 18.2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East andNorth Africa Region



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate EffectiveMay 16,2003)

                           Currency Unit= Yemeni Rial (YR)
                                US$ 1.00=YR 178.01


                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1-December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ARC         Aden Refinery Company
CAS         Country
              Assistance
                  Strategy
GLTC Land
  General
       Transport
            Corporation
Yemen
YCC
Cement                    Company
Yemen
YDC
 Drug                    Company




                        Vice President:        Jean-Louis  Sarbib
                       Country Director:       Mahmood Ayub
                        Sector Director:       Emmanuel Forestier
                       Sector Manager:         Zoubida Allaoua
                     Task
                      Team Deane
                        Leader:Jordan

                                                                    FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY


                               PROJECT COMPLETIONNOTE

                                    REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                           PRIVATIZATION SUPPORTPROJECT
                                  (IDA Credit No. 3298-YEM)


1.       OnNovember     30, 1999,theExecutiveDirectors       of theAssociationapproved      an IDA
credit of SDR 8.1 million (US$10.9 millionequivalent)           to the Republic of Yemen for a
PrivatizationSupport   Project. The credit was signed on February 7, 2000. All conditions
precedent to credit effectiveness were completed, except for the ratification of the Development
Credit Agreement by the Yemeni Parliament. After several extensions of the effectiveness date,
totalingabout   10 months, the IDAcreditwas        allowed to Iapse atthethenterminal       date for
effectiveness of April 30,2001. There wereno disbursements.

Background

2.       By1999,the Government of Yemenhadembarkedonacomprehensiveeconomicreform
programtodevelop a more free and open economy,one in whichprivatesector initiative and
competitive market forces were the main engines of growth. In pursuit of this reform program,
the Governmentplannedtowithdraw,overthemedium                 term, fromcompetitive, commercial
activities and to seek private sector participation in many public utilities and other infrastructure
areas. Privatization was seenbytheGovernmentasintegraltoitsgrowthstrategy                  to attract
greaterexternalanddomesticprivateinvestment,increase             the efficiency of enterprises,and
improve the management and utilization of the country's limited budgetary and fiscal resources.
To strengthen the environment for privatization, the Yemeni Parliament passed and promulgated
a PrivatizationLaw    in 1999 whosefeatures       drew heavily frombothinternational       and local
experience with privatization. The Government       also establishednewinstitutions to oversee the
privatization program and coordinate its implementation.

Project Objectives and Description

3.       The Project was intended to helptheGovernmentachievetheprivatization          targets under
thefirstphase    of theGovernment'sprivatization      program. It was expected to help build the
institutionalcapacity to manageandcarryout        the program, and tohelpprovide the substantial
external and local technical expertise and financial advisory services necessary for implementing
thetransactions.     As stated in theProject      Appraisal Document,theproject         development
objectiveswere:(i)effectiveandtransparent         management of theGovernment's privatization
program (1999-2002) including the Project; and(ii) completed privatizations of public enterprises
and assets.

4.       The Projectwasfullyconsistentwith       the CountryAssistanceStrategy    (CAS). TheCAS
objectivessupported by the Projectincluded the creation a modernpublicadministration             that
would encourage and attract private sector development to grow out of poverty and dependence
on oil. The excessivepresence       of government in some areas hadled         to inefficient public
enterprise
         monopolies       and over-regulation that was constraining     private     investment and
employment.

                                               -2-


5.       The Project included four components: (i) institutionalsupportforprogramand           project
management; (ii) transactions support for the privatization of large enterprises; (iii) transactions
support for the privatization of small enterprises; and (iv) pre-privatization strategy work on large
enterprises. The large enterprises targeted for privatization under the Projectcomprised: Aden
RefineryCompany       (ARC);Airport passengerandcargoground-handlingservices(atsix
airports);GeneralLand Transport Corporation(GLTC); Yemen Cement Company (YCC);and
Yemen Drug Company(YDC). In addition, the Projectincluded financing for about 50 small and
medium-sized enterprise transactions. The Project was expected to be implemented over a period
of about 3 1/2years.

6.       Thetotal project cost was estimated atUS$16.0 million equivalent,includingaforeign
exchange component of about US$10.0 million, or 63 percent of the total project cost. The IDA
credit of $10.9 million was to finance about 68 percent of the total projectcost,comprising
consultantservices, studies, training, equipmentand vehicles and incrementaloperatingcosts.
The Government was to finance the remaining costsof US$5.1 million equivalent.

Reasons for Cancellation

7.       In advance of effectiveness,goodprogress had beenachieved in readyingtheprojectfor
implementation. A new privatization law had been enacted,the implementing institutions were in
place and adequately staffed, theterms      of referenceand      procurement documents had been
completed for all of the large transactions and many of the smaller ones, detailed procedures had
beenestablished to facilitatetransparent and efficientprivatizationprocesses,andmost            of the
preparatorystepsfortheappointment         of advisersandtheselection        of consultantshad been
completed.Significant      progress had been achievedespecially        on thelargeAdenRefinery
transaction, which was expected to be a litmus test for the Government's privatization program.

8.       However,followingparliamentaryelections       in early 2001, the Governmentinformedthe
Association that it did not expect to be able to muster sufficient votes in Parliament to ratify the
Project by the then terminal date for effectivenessof April 30, 2001, given rising contentiousness
over privatization in the current socio-political environment. The Association therefore advised
the Government that,given several previous extensions of the effectivenessdate totaling about 10
months, no further extensions were possible and therefore the Project would be allowed to lapse
at the effectiveness date. However, the Association advised the Government in response to their
request that it would be pleased to assist them in seeking funding for privatization      from other
donors.

9.       Sincethecancellation of the Project,theGovernmenthascontinued            to maintain the new
institutions that were established, andprogress has been achieved on a number of small enterprise
transactions.

Lesson Learned

10.      Privatizationcan   be controversial in the MiddleEastRegionas          in otherareas   of the
world dueto concerns of vested interests andotherstakeholdersinregard              to potential losses,
transparency,andother       issues. In this case,major      efforts hadbeenmadeduringproject
preparation to build wide-spread commitment andsupport in Yemen forprivatization and its
potentialbenefits,   but considerable oppositionamongelected         officials and theirconstituents
remained.Building      adequate supportforprivatizationthereforerequires        a strongparticipatory
approach involvingall important stakeholders.

