Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3298-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 7, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3298-YEM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 7, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated November 2, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing the Borrower’s privatization program for the period 
1999-2002 (the Program) which sets out, inter alia, strategies to privatize 
certain large, medium and small Public Enterprises (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are 
accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the  requirements set forth in Section 10 of 
Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, 
adopted on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all 
such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a 
Participating 
Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; 
or 
(b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“HCP” means the High Committee for Privatization created, 
structured and operating pursuant to the HCP Decree (as this term is hereinafter 
defined);
(b)
“HCP Decree” means the decree referred to under Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
“Procedures Manual” means the Borrower’s manual setting out the 
management, financial, administrative and other guidelines and procedures 
governing the privatization process of Public Enterprises;
(d)
“Privatization Law” means Law No. 45 of the Borrower, promulgated 
on October 27, 1999, governing the privatization process of Public Enterprises 
(as this term is hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended from time to 
time;
(e)
“Project Implementation Plan" means the Borrower’s plan, agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association, for the implementation of the Project 
which sets out the targets and indicators to be used in evaluating progress 
toward the achievement of the objectives of the Project;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Public Enterprise” means a legally autonomous enterprise or entity 
producing goods and services, a majority or all of the outstanding voting stock, 
or other proprietary interest, of which is owned, or effectively controlled, by 
the Borrower or by an agency thereof, and this term shall include a division of 
a Public Enterprise, and/or a commercial activity or service undertaken by a 
Public Enterprise;
(h)
“Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
of this Agreement;
(i)
“TPO” means the Technical Privatization Office created, structured 
Page  3
and operating pursuant to the TPO Decree (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
and
(j)
“TPO Decree” means the decree referred to under Section 6.01 (d) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR8,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
(60) after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates 
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 
2010, and ending September 15, 2039.  Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on September 15, 2019, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through TPO with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and 
technical standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the procedures 
and guidelines set forth in the Procedures Manual and the targets set out in the 
Project Implementation Plan, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and
Page  5
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a 
format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing standards acceptable 
to the 
Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statement and report of 
such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial management 
system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Page  6
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which shall:
(i)
(A) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period 
covered by said report, and (B) show separately 
expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describe progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and 
(B) explain variances between actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of HCP or TOP, or for 
the suspension of HCP or TPO’s operations.
(c)
Either the Privatization Law, the HCP Decree, the TPO Decree or the 
Procedures Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to, in the opinion of the Association, affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) 
of the General Conditions:
(a)
the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 (a) 
of this Agreement has been established;
(b)
the Borrower has issued the Procedures Manual in substance 
satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has issued the HCP Decree, in accordance with the 
Page  7
requirements provided for under the Privatization Law, and caused it to be 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette; and
(d)
the Borrower has issued the TPO Decree, in substance satisfactory 
to the Association, and caused it to be published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
Telex:
CENPLAN
2266
Sana'a
CEPLAN YE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Tekex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri
Authorized Representative'
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tufan Kolan
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    80,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost) 
and
85% of local
expenditures 
for
other items
procures 
locally
(2)
Consultants' services
and training
(a) under Part A.1
3,470,000
100%
(a) of the Project
(b) under Part A.1
1,700,000
100%
(b) of the Project
(c) under Part A.1
  520,000
100%
(c) of the Project
(d) under Parts A.2
1,260,000
100%
and B of the Project
(3)
Incremental
  370,000
90%
Operating
Expenditures
(4)
Unallocated
  700,000
TOTAL
8,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Expenditures" means expenditures 
incurred by TPO on account of utility charges, rent for office space, 
maintenance of vehicles, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, communication 
services, travel costs, labor costs and other consumables but excluding salaries 
Page  9
of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing less than $75,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts for 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) services under 
contracts for individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and 
(d) Incremental Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the 
transparent and efficient privatization of Public Enterprises and the 
expeditious management of the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: Privatization Transaction Support
1.
Provision of technical assistance: (a) to prepare for privatization each 
of the Yemen Corporation for Cement Production and Marketing, the Yemen Drug 
Company, the Aden Refinery Company and the passenger and cargo ground handling 
services, operated through the Civil Aviation and Meteorology Authority and the 
General Land Transport Corporation, at the six (6) international airports in the 
Borrower’s territory; (b) to prepare for privatization certain Public 
Enterprises in the agriculture, fisheries, industry, oil and gas, trade and 
supply, transport and telecommunications sectors; and (c) to carry out 
privatization preparatory work in connection with the Public Telecommunications 
Corporation, YEMENIA and the assets of the port of Nashtoun.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to proceed with policy and regulatory 
initiatives necessary to: (a) facilitate the privatization process of Public 
Enterprise assets; and (b) create a suitable market environment for the 
effective operation of newly privatized enterprises.
Part B:
Program and Project Management Support
Support to TPO and sector ministries, through the provision of expert 
services, equipment and training, to strengthen their capabilities to implement 
the Project and the Program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,” published 
by the Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in 
September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National or International Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
or international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $75,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the 
draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  11
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," published by the Association in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 
of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
For purposes of ensuring proper coordination of the Project and the 
Program, the Borrower shall maintain HCP within the Office of the Prime Minister 
of the Borrower. The functions of HCP shall include, inter alia, responsibility 
for approval of privatization transactions and appointment of temporary 
executive boards for Public Enterprises to be privatized.
2.
For purposes of ensuring proper execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall maintain TPO, within the Office of the Prime Minister of the Borrower, 
with professional staff in adequate numbers whose qualifications and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Association. The functions of TPO, which 
are set forth in the Privatization Law, include, inter alia: (i) acting as the 
Secretariat for HCP, including the responsibility to review all privatization 
proposals submitted to HCP; (ii) coordinating the implementation of the Project 
and the Program; (iii) formulating privatization strategies; (iv) advising and 
assisting sector ministries in carrying out privatization transactions; (v) 
coordinating with ministries and other concerned institutions including labor 
unions; (vi) monitoring Project performance and implementation progress in 
accordance with the targets and indicators set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan; (vii) monitoring compliance with procurement guidelines 
and, maintaining Project accounts; and (viii) ensuring transparency of 
privatization, including public disclosure of privatization plans and 
transaction terms.
3.
The Borrower shall employ one or more qualified legal experts, with proven 
professional experience in privatization transactions, to assist in the 
preparation and negotiation of all legal documents, including asset purchase and 
other agreements, required to be concluded by the Borrower to consummate the 
privatization transactions contemplated under the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2001, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2001, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph 
(b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
Page  13
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) (a), (2) 
(b), (2) (c), 2 (d) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$900,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
Page  14
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
