Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20220
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 37360; 3736A; 3736S; 28231)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6.7 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
March 30, 2000
Private Sector and Finance Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1999)
Currency Unit = MUR
25.5 MUR= US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = 25.5 MUR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CSO           Central Statistic Office
EPZ           Export Processing Zone
ETFS          Electronic Trade Facilitation System
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
ISO           International Standards Organization
MAURITAS   Mauritius Accreditation Services
MOBAA         Mauritius Off-shore Business Activities Authority
MSB           Mauritius Standards Bureau
MSTQ          Metrology, Standards, Testing, Quality
RPED          Regional Program on Enterprise Development
SADC          Southern African Development Commission
TDS           Technology Diffusion Scheme
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager/Director:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ahmet Soylemezoglu



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   7
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        9
8. Lessonis Learned                                                                    10
9. Partner Comments                                                                    11
1O. Additional Information                                                            13
Anmex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   14
Anmex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   19
Anmex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  20
Anunex 5. Ratings for &chievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                     23
Anunex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P001918                                       Project Name: TECH ASST.
Team Leader: Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu                        TL Unit: AFTPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: MVarch 30, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TECH ASST.                                        L/C Number: 37360; 3736A; 3736S;
28231
Country/Department: MAURITIUS                                            Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: BP - Privatization
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/15/92                                 Effective: 09/24/94           09/24/94
Appraisal:  12/04/93                                  MTR: 02/01/97              02/14/97
.A1pproval:  05/24/94                             C(losing: 06/30/99             06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT OF MAURITIUS/MIN OF INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
Olher Partners: Private Sector Entrepreneurs, Mauritius Standard Bureau
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
IV'ice President:    Callisto E. Madavo                         E. Jaycox
CountrY iMvanager:   Michael N. Sarris                          Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
.S;ector Aflanager:  Gerard Byan                                Michael Sarris
7'eaul Leader at ICR:   Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu                   Neil Simon Gray
KC'R Primary Author:   Ahimet I. Soyleinezoglu
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(H1S=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Uinsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUNIl=ighly
IJnlikely, HU=-Highly IJnsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
S'ustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: HS
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Per,fornance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv:                        HS
Pro3ect at Risk at Any 7Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's original overall objective was to assist Mauritian firms to enhance competitiveness
and thereby improve prospects for sustainable rapid growth. This would be achieved by
facilitating private sector access to know-how to improve productivity, quality, design and
response times as well as to diversify export production. Project objectives were clear, realistic
and in line with the Country Assistance Strategy for Mauritius, discussed by the Executive
Directors on May 2, 1994. The objectives were also in line with long-standing Government
policies and development priorities and, in fact, the project provided a platform for the
Government to pursue its long-term policy objectives. The project objectives were also in line
with the Bank's objectives on private sector development (1989 Board Decision) of: (a) directly
fostering private enterprise through resource transfer and other support; (b) creating a business
environment; and (c) restructuring public sectors to improve efficiency and concentrate on
services complementary to private activity.
The project was well designed, and extensive preparatory work was carried out by the
Government in close collaboration with the Bank preparation team. The project was to be
implemented by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce which was responsible for overall
coordination and for the Technology Diffusion Scheme; the Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSTQ
initiative); the Ministry of Finance (electronic data interchange, retirement savings review), and
the Central Statistics Office (development of competitiveness indicators). All these institutions
had the competence and resources to carry out project activities. The operational demands on the
implementing agencies were carefully assessed during appraisal and appropriate technical
assistance was included in the project to support the agencies involved.
3.2 Revised Ob ective:
The objectives of the project have not been revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project originally consisted of four components: (a) a Technology Diffusion Scheme (TDS)
to share the cost of private sector's access to technical and marketing state-of-the-art know-how
to improve the competitive position of Mauritian firms; (b) a Metrology, Standards, Testing,
Quality (MSTQ) initiative to strengthen MSTQ-related infrastructure; c) an electronic data
interchange to facilitate trade through electronic filing and clearing of all trade-related legal
documentation; and (d) technical assistance in areas where the overall competitiveness of the
Mauritian economy could be enhanced. Technical assistance was provided to: (i) review and
restructure the retirement savings system to improve flexibility in labor markets; (ii) develop
statistical indicators for competitiveness and productivity; and (iii) restructure the investment
authorization process. The project components were directly related to the project's stated
objectives.
3.4 Revised (omponents:
The project's main framework was kept intact with only minor modifications made to some of the
sub-components. First, acquisition of some of the MSTQ-related equipment was found to be
unnecessary following the University of Mauritius' acquisition of similar equipment; it was
determined that one set of such equipment in the country was sufficient for the time being.
-2 -



Second, the process of restructuring the investment authorization system took on a different
nature when the Government decided to review the entire Industrial Expansion Act and the whole
investment process. Following discussions with the Government during the mid-term review,
IBRD agreed to exclude this item from the project. Given these developments and various
savings achieved during the implementation process, in May 1998, the Government requested
cancellation of US$1 million of the original loan amount and IBRD agreed to this request.
Rating      Component                            Cost
(US$ million)
HS      TDS                                            5.55
HS      MSTQ                                           3.72
HS      TRADE FACILITATION                             1.48
S       ECONOMIC REGULATORY REFORMS                    0.62
TOTAL                                        11.37
3.5 ()uality at Entry:
The project pre-dates the introduction of the QAG process at the Bank. However, as discussed
above, the project was well prepared and its ratings were satisfactory throughout implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. ] Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project is rated as "highly satisfactory" with respect to the achievement of objectives and
outputs. All outcome and output indicators established during appraisal were either met or
surpassed. Although the project pre-dates the introduction of the logical framework approach,
such a framework was created on the basis of the Staff Appraisal Report. Annex I to this Report
includes the logical framework and key performance indicators for the project.
The project was instrumental in: (i) accelerating transfer of special technical and marketing
know-how to Mauritian firms; (ii) creating an awareness in Mauritius of the need for international
competitiveness in terms of factor productivity and product marketability in a global economy;
(iii) creating an institutional infrastructure for MSTQ to foster the growth of internationally
competitive firms; and (iv) removing some of the regulatory obstacles to allow for a more
competitive environment.
4.' Outputs hy components:
The project's different components yielded the following outputs:
Technology Diffusion Scheme (TDS). The TDS scheme has realized its overall objective of
helping Mauritian firms access specialized technical and marketing know-how. This was achieved
by a significant transfer of technical resources to private enterprises through a grant instrument.
The grant instrument provided financing of the technology transfer on a cost-sharing basis. TDS
used over 90 percent of the total allocated amount. The unutilized balance under TDS resulted
from exchange rate fluctuations, as well as savings during the project implementation. The TDS
supported 190 firms which implemented 266 different projects.
-3-



TDS also succeeded in meeting its only original physical target, i.e., a numerical target, which was
expressed in terms of additional revenue of TDS participant firms as a multiple of the grant
amount. The targeted two units of additional revenue per each unit of grant amount is surpassed
in all TDS supported projects. Another key project target was enhanced export performance.
Although the project did not set specific export targets for TDS participant firms, the export
performance of these firms surpassed industry averages and the national export growth rate.
Exports by TDS participant firms rose by 53 percent compared to overall export increase of 21
percent in 1996 and 3 percent in 1997. Exports by TDS participant firms in the Export
Processing Zone (EPZ) grew about 61 percent, while exports of all EPZ firms increased by 15
percent in 1996 and 10 percent in 1997. There was also a marked increase in the range of
products that are exported. TDS participant firms in chemicals, jewelry, electronics and leather
goods realized higher export growth rates than the traditional textile exports. TDS helped the
long term sustainability of Mauritian firms by transferring state-of-the-art technical and marketing
know-how. For instance, with the help of new technical and marketing know-how, textile
exporters, most of whom participated in the TDS, have managed to maintain their export levels
despite rising labor costs.
Of the total grant amount, about 67 percent was disbursed to companies employing less than 500
people, and 25 percent to companies employing less than 100 people. It is important to note,
however, that smaller firms became especially active in the later stages of the TDS, as these firms
became familiar with the benefits of the TDS program over time. TDS also helped generate a local
consultant industry, with about 58 percent of the projects (160 projects) carried out by the local
consultants. These consultants also became active in the later stages of the scheme.
The success in the implementation of TDS has encouraged others to offer similar schemes. The
European Union has just set up a similar program, which has also been housed in the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce.  The Government of Mauritius is also setting up a similar matching
grant fund with its own resources to be administered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
The program will support industrial lines of credit extended by India. Hence, the TDS was
instrumental in attracting other donors and encouraging Government to provide matching grants
and promoting the injection of technical and marketing know-how to the private sector. Given
the above considerations, the TDS output is rated as "highly satisfactory".
Strengthening MSTO Infrastructure. This component's policy objective of creating basic
institutional infrastructure for MSTQ-related service, and a national quality system has been
achieved. The efforts in strengthening the Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB) were particularly
successful. The MSTQ initiative transformed MSB into a modern Standards Bureau which enjoys
credibility internationally. Support under the project has enabled MSB to join the International
Standards Organization (ISO). In addition, the passage of various amendments to the MSB law
enabled Mauritius to meet World Trade Organization (WTO) requirements.
The process of legally establishing the national accreditation body (Mauritius Accreditation
Services - MAURITAS) was delayed at the beginning of the project, a process which was beyond
the control of the project's implementing units. MAURITAS was eventually set up in 1998. The
delays in setting up the institution reduced the amount of technical assistance that could be
-4 -



provided for it under the project. However, MAURITAS has become operational with a
competent staff, and is now implementing all the planned activities under the project with
budgetary support. With the establishment of MAURITAS, Mauritius has joined South Africa as
the only SADC countries with a national accreditation system in place. MAURITAS should begin
accrediting service providers this year.
The physical targets set at appraisal for the MSTQ component have been met. The
accomplishments were as follows: (i) MSB revenues reached 38 percent of expenses, exceeding
the targeted 30 percent by the end of the project; (ii) MSB certified 29 companies for ISO 9000,
nine higher than the targeted 20 companies (no company was certified ISO 9000 at the beginning
of the project); (iii) 90 other companies were certified by international certification bodies for ISO
9000 (encouraging international certification was targeted at appraisal without specific numbers);
(iv) testing has increased from 500 to 2500 tests per year (increasing testing, with no numerical
targets, was a goal set at appraisal), (v) calibration reports issued have increased from 100 to an
average of 500 per year (no numerical target was set at appraisal); (vi) 32 Mauritians were trained
as lead assessors as opposed to a targeted 10; (iv) all MSB senior staff completed their exchange
assignments under the twinning arrangement with the South African Standards Bureau; and (vii)
the MSB has achieved the targeted ratio of 1:1 between technical and support staff. In addition,
local consultancy businesses in quality-related services are beginning to emerge, and a local
consultancy firm focusing on MSTQ-related services has also been established. MSB estimates
that about 10 individual local consultants are active in the field.
The stable trend in increased MSB revenues and the greater use of quality-related services by
Mauritian firms (as shown by the number of ISO 9000 certifications and increased testing activity)
indicate that the institutional sustainability of the MSTQ initiative is now firmly established. ISO
has also praised MSB and Mauritius's approach to set up MSTQ infrastructure as an exemplary
approach to other smaller countries. As a result, this component is given an overall rating of
"highly satisfactory" .
Electronic Trade Facilitation System (ETFS). This component aimed at bringing trade-related
document processing in Mauritius in line with advanced trade-hubs in the region, such as
Singapore. To achieve this, physical targets were set in terms of reducing the processing time of
trade documentation from about two to four days to 15 minutes with 24 hour availability. These
objectives have been met. All users of the system and the customs officials were trained in the
new system. The reorganization of the customs department has taken into account the EFTS.
Furthermore, the electronic network set up for this purpose was incorporated as a private
company and began developing other businesses. For example, the electronic infrastructure will
be used for "contributions network" which will introduce electronic submission of taxes and
depositing of various deductions from employee's earnings, such as social security, and income
taxes. The contributions network system will be fully operational when the electronic payment
system -- which is being supported by the World Bank -- becomes operational. The ETFS
infrastructure will also provide services for the Mauritius Off-shore Business Activities Authority
(MOBAA). Hence, ETFS has become a sustainable initiative. Accordingly, this component is
rated 'highly satisfactory" with respect to sectoral policies, physical targets, and institution
building objectives.



Economic and Regulatory Environment. The project has provided technical assistance in three
areas to help achieve broader project objectives as outlined in Section C above: (i) developing
productivity and competitiveness indicators and improving the monitoring of industrial
development; (ii) reviewing the Retirement Savings System; and (iii) restructuring the Investment
Authorization System.
The objectives of the first category of technical assistance were to develop capacity at the Central
Statistics Office (CSO) to track specific indicators of competitiveness and productivity, create
awareness of these indicators within the industrial sector and enable policy makers to monitor
improvements in the industrial sector. Capacity at the CSO was created through a twinning
arrangement with the South African Central Statistics Office; public workshops were held; and
regular publication of these indicators was achieved. The project also helped CSO widen its
focus. The CSO set up and tracked key indicators, and has greatly modernized its operations
during the life of the project, meeting all project objectives.
The existing rigidities in the labor markets due to non-portability of retirement plans was the key
focus of the second category of technical assistance. To address this issue, the accrued liabilities
of the government under various retirement plans were assessed from an actuarial perspective.
Hence, the scope of this assistance encompassed some of key aspects of the "welfare state" in
Mauritius. The project financed a comprehensive actuarial study of the current situation which
provided a quantitative basis for policy-making. Subsequent to this work, a Portable Pension
Fund was established to remove constraints on labor mobility. In addition, the Income Tax Law
was amended to allow for the preservation/transfer of accrued pensions after five years of service.
Broader issues related to pension reform are now being pursued separately with the assistance of
the World Bank under a technical assistance program for modernization of the welfare and
pension system. Given these developments, this sub-component is also rated "satisfactory".
The third category of technical assistance was dropped with IBRD agreement, as discussed above
(Section 3.4). However, it should be noted that issues related to investment authorization and the
general "business climate" were retained as part of the dialogue during the supervision of the
project. The legislative agenda to address these issues from a wider perspective as desired by the
Government proved to be quite extensive, and the Government is addressing these issues under a
special initiative involving various ministries and the Prime Minister's office. The Government is
seeking advice of Bank staff for this undertaking on an informal basis.
4.3 Vet Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
No NPV/ERR was computed in the SAR. The project's benefits are quite difficult to quantify.
The total operational cost of the MGS was approximately around twenty percent of the total
grant amount. This is consistent with the cost of other similar schemes, and suggest a cost
effective implementation. The cost effective implementation is also evident from the fact that a set
of equipment worth about $1 million was not purchased when it became unnecessary, and the
loan amount was adjusted. Most of the TDS supported projects were completed at below their
original cost estimates. The benefit of the grants is essentially a function of the magnitude of
acceleration of the technology transfer. A rough estimate, based on the assumption of
accelerating the technology acquisition by one-year and treating the benefits as a perpetuity with
- 6 -



twelve percent return (approximately equivalent to prime rates in Mauritius), yields about $42
million in terms of the present value of perpetual gain from total expenditures of TDS supported
projects of $ 5 million. This figures does not take into account any spill-over benefits. The public
benefit on this perpetual gain, stemming only from the additional taxes with a twenty percent tax,
would yield a total of $ 8.5 million. The project also reduced MSB's reliance on public resources
by forty percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a. Please see above discussion
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's various components have helped the development of a number of key institutions,
as noted in 4.2 above. These include: (i) the institutional infrastructure of the MSTQ services; (ii)
enhancement of the capacity of MSB; (iii) institutionalizing the electronic data interchange for
official business; (iv) development of electronic data interchange-related services; (v) enhancing
capacity at the CSO; and (vi) introducing portable pensions to the social security and retirement
systems. Given this outcome, the overall rating on institutional development is highly satisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agenrv:
There were a number of factors that affected the project and were outside the control of the
Government and implementing agencies. These included: (i) the legislative process; (ii) the
responsiveness of the private sector to the various initiatives; and (iii) the pace of implementation
of private sector projects under TDS. However, only the delays in the legislative process had
some impact on the project outcome. Delays in the passage of the MAURITAS law resulted in
lower utilization of project funds for this purpose. However, the project objectives were not
adversely affected by this. The potentially adverse effects of items (ii) and (iii) above were
mitigated by effective management by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and other units
responsible for the project components which maintained constant dialogue with the private
sector.
5. F Pactors generally subject to government control:
Provision of counterpart funds and a supportive administrative process were the key factors
subject to government control. The Government provided the requisite counterpart funds and
provided timely support in the implementation of the project. The Government did not interfere in
the implementation of various project components.
-5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementing ministries and other units in charge of project implementation kept their focus on
the project's stated objectives and provided: (i) supportive administrative arrangements; and (ii)
competent key staff responsible for the project's implementation.
5 a4 C osts andf inancing:
Part of the loan was canceled in order to take advantage of the equipment acquired by the
University of Mauritius as well as savings during the implementation process. The detailed costs
and financing tables in the project are presented in Annexes 2a, 2b, and 2c. Disbursements were
slower than anticipated at the beginning of the project partly because the pace of implementation
-7 -



of the private sector was slower than expected at the outset, and partly because the Government
delayed the submission of withdrawal applications. Therefore, the actual disbursement profile
may not fully reflect the progress of the project over time. It should also be noted that the
Government elected not to utilize the project's special account. In the later phase of the project,
the Government took lBRD's advice to make an advance account available for the project units.
This proved useful in expediting payments.
6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated "highly likely". First, initiatives financed under the project,
contributed to ensuring that a large section of the Mauritian private sector be integrated into the
global economy through extensive trade ties and is expected to continually update its technology
to stay competitive. Second, the Mauritian Government has sufficient resources to continue
financing the public institutions involved in the project and has demonstrated commitment to do
this. Third, the skill levels in Mauritius has been enhanced. Fourth, a key institution (MSB) has
shown significant decrease in reliance on budgetary resources.
In addition the following considerations were taken into account for this rating:
3  It is highly likely that the MSTQ institutional infrastructure will become a permanent fixture in
the country: MSB has joined the ISO, Mauritius is also part of WTO; and the MSTQ legislation
is now in line with WTO requirements. It is highly unlikely that Mauritius would default on its
obligations to these organizations.
3  International certification bodies are quite active (as they certified 90 companies) and it is highly
likely that these companies will stay active. The need for a local accreditation will increase in
the future.
*  MSB has laboratories that no one else has or is likely to have in the country given the necessary
investments to set up similar facilities. In all likelihood, the private MSTQ service companies
will continue to rely on MSB labs for testing and calibration, and the demand for these services
is likely to continue to grow.
*  MSB's reliance on budgetary resources declined by 40 percent, a trend that is likely to continue
to improve.
*  As for TDS, the European Union scheme and a Government scheme are likely to last another
five years. None of these initiatives would have been established if the TDS had not been
perceived as a success. Therefore, a proactive engagement by the Government to assist private
companies in obtaining technical and marketing know-how will continue in the medium-term.
It should be noted that the TDS type of initiative is not intended to be permanent but to act as a
catalyst in encouranging local firms to improve their technology.
* ETFS has become a self-sufficient undertaking. Being a private company, ETFS has already
begun taking advantage of its early entry in providing value-added network services in
-8 -



Mauritius.
* Achieving portability of pension plans between the private and public sectors was the first step
in reforming the entire retirement system. The current efforts indicate that the remainder of the
reform agenda will be pursued.
6.2 'ITansition arrangement to regular operations:
The project provided specialized skills and technology to already existing institutions. Although,
no specific transitory arrangement is called for project's various initiatives, the set of indicators
mentioned above for sustainability purposes can be considered important factors for sustaining
project's objectives in the future.
7. Baink and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the areas of identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the
project is found to be "highly satisfactory". The Bank team identified key issues affecting the
Mauritian economy and through extensive discussions with stakeholders in Mauritius, identified
areas of activity which could assist in bringing about the modernization of the Mauritian
enterpri ses.
7.2 Supenrision:
The project was adequately supervised. The supervision missions provided relevant advice and
followed up on previous recommendations and agreed actions. Recommendations were proper
and timely. There was also a considerable degree of continuity in the Bank staff. The original task
manager stayed until the end of the mid-term  review.  Following a brief period of task
management by one of the participants in the mid-term review, the project's second half was
essentially overseen by a single task team leader. The Bank's team extensively utilized specialized
skills, both in-house and outside consultants, up to and including the mid-term review. With the
smooth operation of the project, usage of special outside consultants became less necessary.
During the implementation several important issues needed to be attended: (i) occasional delays in
processing reimbursements of the TDS participant firms; (ii) part of the loan that became
unnecessary; (iii) impact of the Government's decision not to utilize the special account
mechanism; and (iv) dealing with delays in the legislative process. These issues dealt with by: (i)
engaging in a constructive dialogue with the Government ad the private sector to facilitate the
reimbursement process; (ii) canceling part of the loan; (iii) having Government to set up an
advance account for the project units in lieu of the 1BRD special account to speed up the
implementation pace; (iv) implementing all activities that can be carried out without specific legal
action and continue to pursue the legal process by way of a constructive dialogue. The Country
Director has followed up on the recommendations of the Task Team on all these and other issues
I which resulted in a better dialogue and understanding with the borrower, and played a crucial
role of a facilitator and provider of the necessary resources. The Sector management also
provided a quality environment for the functioning of the task team. The project files are
complete and orderly. Supervision forms were found to be realistic, with sufficient attention to
the development objectives.
-9-



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above considerations, the overall performance of the Bank is rated "highly
sati sfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance in terms of the quality of project preparation was found to be "highly
satisfactory". This is reflected in the adequacy of the design of the project. All the relevant
financial, economic, commercial, institutional, environmental, and sociological factors were taken
into account during the preparation.
7.5 (rovernment implementation performance:
The Government's performance throughout the project has remained at least "satisfactory". Stable
macroeconomic conditions provided a good policy environment and kept government
commitment robust. The Government provided its share of the expenditures in a timely manner.
The government acted properly whenever its involvement was required, and collaborated closely
with IBRD missions and followed up on the agreed action plans.
7.6 ihplementing Agency:
All the implementing units provided effective management. Sufficient and proper financial
controls were kept in place, and audits were provided on time as required by the loan agreement.
Regular reporting on the project's progress was provided as per implementation arrangements.
Regular reports also contained sufficient amount of data to monitor the project.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfornance:
Given the above considerations and results with respect to the objectives which could not have
been attained without a high level of Government involvement, the borrower's overall
performance is rated "highly satisfactory".
8. Lessons Learned
All of the project's components offer valuable lessons. With respect to the MSTQ component,
the following lessons can be drawn: (i) accreditation of the domestic service provider by reputable
international organizations and establishing twinning arrangements are highly effective alternatives
to the traditional standards bureau arrangements; (ii) extensive public awareness campaigns for
quality and standards are essential; (iii) local organizations must be integrated with the
international standard setting organizations; and (iv) initial demand for MSTQ related services
depends heavily on export performance.
The Trade Facilitation component shows that: (i) a separate private corporation to own and
operate electronic infrastructure is desirable; (ii) comprehensive training of customs officials and
users should be planned ahead; (iii) if necessary, customs departments may need to be
reorganized; and (iv) the electronic infrastructure should be flexible to engage in other
value-added network activities.
- 10-



The Retirement System Review shows that: (i) a comprehensive actuarial analysis of the system
should be carried out prior to any reform attempt; (ii) retirement reform can be accomplished by
smaller steps in environments where the complete overhaul is politically difficult; and (iii) portable
pension plans can eliminate one of the major constraints for labor mobility between private and
public sector.
TDS shows that effective management of grant schemes can only be achieved by having: (i)
clearly spelled out implementation guidelines; (ii) competent private managers supported by the
Government; (iii) a public-private oversight committee; and (iv) Government commitment. TDS
also shows that: (i) it takes considerable time to build these type of schemes, even in a small
country like Mauritius; (ii) small firms tend to start using cost-sharing schemes at later stages; and
(iii) local consultancy increases at a later stage. Hence, schemes that would target small firms need
to have a longer time horizon and modest expectations at the earlier stages. In addition to these
findings, a recent research by RPED on TDS inquired whether: (i) high private returns created
sufficient positive externalities; and (ii) grant funds were used to fund activities that were going to
take place even if there was no grant subsidy. This research argues that Mauritius TDS generated
high private returns with little public benefits. Despite the fact that the findings of this research
are not conclusive, it raises important concerns for future designers of such schemes. According
to this research, the eligibility for matching grants should have explicit criteria to ensure that: (i)
grants will be extended to those activities that have the potential to generate high level of positive
externalities; and (ii) grants will be used to fund activities in addition to those that private
entrepreneurs will fund on their own (for further discussion on these points see the references in
Annex 7 regarding to this research and ensuing discussions). Given these concerns, new schemes
should also establish a new set of monitorable indicators to measure broader economic benefits
arising out of matching grants.
Finally, the project offers some valuable lessons from the operational perspective: (i) a centralized
financial management unit is essential for multi-component projects in which each component is
carried out by a different entity; (ii) beneficiaries of technical assistance must have sufficient
capacity to absorb the assistance; and (iii) a high degree of ownership must be present across all
implementation units and beneficiaries.
9. Partner Comments
(a) L?orrower/liplementing agency:
The Government notes with satisfaction and concurs with the findings of the project's
Implementation Completion Report that the project has met its overall and specific objectives.
The project implementation has also been rated as highly satisfactory despite certain delays, often
due to protracted tendering procedures as observed in the ICR.
The Government also appreciates that, with the collaboration of the World Bank, it was possible
to successfully implement this project at a time when the country's exports started to face
increasing challenges in maintaining competitiveness on the international market. Indeed following
rapid growth of the EPZ in the eighties which enabled the economy to successfully diversify and
reduce its dependence on sugar exports, the growth rate has now stabilized at around six percent
over the past five years. With increasing globalization of trade, enterprises are continuously under
- 11 -



pressure to improve their competitiveness.
With regards to the specific components of the project, the impact of the Technology Diffusion
Scheme has been very positive with respect to the performance of the beneficiaries and the
appreciation shown by the private sector, and has resulted in Government providing additional
funds and seeking other external sources of funding to launch similar schemes. This demonstrates
that the scheme has created much needed awareness of the significance of technology
improvement for sustaining growth in an increasingly dynamic trade environment. The scheme
has also been instrumental in developing the market for consultancy services.
Regarding the type of beneficiaries and projects supported, it was noted that more firms, some of
which were non-manufacturing, outside the EPZ than originally expected benefited from the
scheme.   There were also a few  beneficiaries for whom  the enhancement of export
competitiveness was not apparent. The lesson that can be drawn from this is that the final
approVal of applications should have rested with the TDS Supervision Committee.
For the MSTQ component there were certain delays in implementation at the start and in the
implementation of new projects, which were included in an effort to utilize savings realized during
the course of implementation. The delays, as pointed out in the ICR, were often due to
protracted tendering procedures. The important fact remains, however, that the necessary MSTQ
Infrastructure has been put in place and equipment installed, as well as necessary skills provided
to make effective use thereof for the improvement of quality. Further, the accreditation services
provided will enable the Bureau, as well as private sector services in this field to gain international
recognition.
The Trade Facilitation component will further improve business environment and the
responsiveness of firms.
With regards to loan utilization it is noted that after all reimbursements applied for have been
etfected, more than 80 percent of the revised loan amount will be utilized. Direct Government
contribution accounted for has been lower than estimated. However, the Appendices on project
costs do take into account Government expenditures relating to logistic support for training
courses and workshops and some equipment and supplies purchased locally.
Overall, it is recognized that the project has enabled the putting in place of necessary facilities and
imparted required skills and know-how through technology transfer and training. It has also
undoubtedly created an awareness of the urgent need to enhance competitiveness to meet the
challenges of a fast liberalizing international market. These will be invaluable assets for Mauritius
and constitute an important step towards building its future comparative advantage.
The Government takes this opportunity to convey its thanks to IBRD for the loan extended to
Mauritius for the implementation of this project. We also convey our deep appreciation on the
continued support and advice of the World Bank, particularly the project Task Managers for their
invaluable contribution to the successful completion of the project.
(b) ( 'ot/iianciers.'
- 12 -



n.a.
(c) Other partners ONVGOslprivate sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Im act Indicators:
Injection of new technologies into the  Over 150 firms totaling more than 250  TDS supported total of 266 projects by 190
Maurtian Firms through the assistance  projects helped Mauitian firms to acquire   firms.
provided by the Technology Diffusion  new technologies.
Scheme.
A Greater awareness of the ISO Standards.  SAR targeted minimum of 20 firms to be ISO The latest estimate shows there are about
9000 certified. This target was surpassed.   120 companies ISO 9000 certified, as
opposed to zero when the project started.
The Overall Standard system is complaint   Full Compliance is targeted by way of  Full Compliance is achieved with the passing
with the WTO requirements and MSB      amending MSB Act in SAR. Also targeted is of the new MSB Act in 1998. MSB became a
achieves intemational recognition.     ISO membership by MSB. These targets    member within the ISO.
were achieved about a year ago.
A legal and operational framework for the    Setting up an institutional Framework was   The institutional framework is achieved with
Accreditation of MSTQ related institutions.  targeted and was achieved about a year ago. the enactment of a new law which
established MAURITAS (the accreditation
body). MAURITAS also became operational
with the hiring of competent director and
started operating.
Portability of Pension for the civil servants   Although not specifically targeted but  Portability is achieved.
when they joined the private sector.   mentioned as a desired outcome. This was
achieved with the new budget
Providing a user friendly and prompt custom  Targeted in the SAR. Successful completion This was achieved by way of setting a
clearance service.                     noted earlier.                        24-hour operational electronic customs
clearance mechanisms.
Estabiishing capacity to monitor overall  Targeted in SAR. Successful completion    Capacity created and the tracking of
competitiveness of the Mauritian economy.   noted earlier.                   competitiveness indicators institutionalized
within the Central Statistics Office (CSO).
- 14 -



Output Indicators:
TDS Grant Recipients generate 2 units of   Noted significant over achievement.  The multiple revenue realized as 163 units
revenue per one unit of grant amount.                                        per one grant unit. This multiple was 124 for
export sales for which there was no original
target was set.
Improved export performance (for TDS  Significantly above average achievements   TDS recipients exports increased by 53%
recipients) as indicator of enhanced  were noted.                            compared to overall export increase of 21%
competitive position (No specific target was                                 in 1996 and 3% in 1997. Furthermore, EPZ
mentioned).                                                                  Sectors exports (Export processing Zone)
increased by 15% in 1996 and 10% in 1997,
while TDS recipient EPZ firms' exports
increased by 61 %.
Meeting project specific indicators at the firm  Highly satisfactory project implementation by About 86% of project specific targets were
level for TDS recipient firms.        TDS recipient firms noted earlier.     either met or surpassed indicating efficiency
of the firm level implementation.
MSB Certifies 20 companies for ISO 9000   Highly satisfactory progress noted earlier.    MSB Certified 29 companies for ISO 900.
(No company was certified when the project
was started).
Other intemational certification bodies certify Presence of other certification bodies noted  About 90 Mauritian Firms certified by
Mauritian Firms.                      earlier.                               certification bodies other than MSB. With
this figure total ISO certified companies
reached to 129 or approximately 25% of the
EPZ registered firms at the end of the project
(as noted above this fugure was zero at the
beginning of the project)
Increased activity in testing (At the start of   Highly satisfactory performance noted earlier Yearly testing activity increase to about 2500
the project, MSB's conducted tests in low                                    (Last fiscal year number was 2548, bringing
hundreds per year)                                                           the total test figure for the last three years to
6818.
Increased activity in calibration reports (at the No target was set in SAR. Highly  The calibration reports issues stood at 518
start of the project it was averaged less than  satisfactory performance noted earlier,  for the last fiscal year bringing the total
100 per year.                                                                calibration figure to 1433 for the last three
years.
Training of 10 Lead Assessors was targeted. Achievement of these were noted earlier.    32 Lead Assessors were trained.
MSB prepares periodic business plans and  Targeted in the SAR. These plans were  This was achieved.
marketing surveys.                    noted earlier.
MSB personnel attended various fora.  This activity was targeted without specific    Numerous international fora were attended
numerical targets. This activity noted earlier. by the MSB staff.
A prompt custom clearance system in place. SAR target was 15 minutes to clear  15 minute target achieved. The System is
electronically submitted trade documentation. operational on a 24-hour basis.
Smooth operation of the system was noted
earlier.
An actuarial review of the retirement savings Actuarial study for all public liabilities from    A comprehensive actuarial review of the
system to assess the implications of various various pension schemes targeted in SAR.  retirement systems was completed.
pension plan reforms.                 This was completed about two years ago.
CSO trained in tracking competitiveness  Training targeted and funded by the project.  Training is accomplished through a twining
indicators.                           This was completed about 18 months ago    arrangement with the South African
and noted earlier.                    Standards Bureau.
Routine publication of competitiveness  Publication of the competitiveness indicators CSO routinely publishes competitiveness
indicators.                           targeted. This was completed about two  indicators.
years ago and so noted earlier.
An awareness campaign for the         A Workshop with the likely users of the  A Workshop was conducted by CSO to
competitiveness indicators.           competitiveness indicators wastargeted.    introduce the competitiveness indicators to
This was completed about a year ago and so potential users.
noted.
- 15-



Enid of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
TDS                                                      5.55            5.72          103
MSTQ                                                     3.72            2.94        79.24
Trade Facilitation                                        1.48           0.35        23.29
Reg. & Econ. Env.                                        0.62            0.28        45.38
Total Baseline Cost                                     11.37            9.29
Total Project Costs                11.37            9.29
Total Financing Required                 11.37            9.29
All appraisal amounts were adjusted to account for the canceled portion of the loan
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
--~~~~~~~~~. . -crunt 3 Xthoi
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      1.20          0.00         0.48          1.01          2.69
(1.20)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.20)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          5.50         3.02          8.52
(0.00)        (0.00)       (5.50)        (0.00)        (5.50)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.16          0.16
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       1.20         0.00          5.98          4.19         11.37
(1.20)        (0.00)       (5.50)        (0.00)        (6.70)
All the appraisal amounts were adjusted to account for the canceled portion of the loan
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
EpMutreCate-gory.      1C7 .        NSQhr
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      1.05          0.00          0.00         0.00          1.05
(1.05)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.05)
3. Services                   0.00          1.11          7.13         0.00          8.24
(0.00)        (0.00)       (4.65)        (0.00)        (4.65)
- 17 -



4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         1.05            1.11          7.13            0.00           9.29
1__ _ _   (1.05)    (0.00)         (4.65)         (0.00)          (5.70)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Iluctudes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project. and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government ulnits.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equiv alent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt       CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
TDS                       3.15                 2.68      2.98      0.14       2.61     94.6   0.0    97.4
MSTQ                      2.58       1.13                2.10      0.55                81.4   48.7   0.0
Trade Fac.                0.48       1.08                0.34      0.44                70.8   40.7   0.0
Reg. & Econ. Env.         0.33      0.29                 0.28                          84.8   0.0    0.0
All the appraisal amounts were adjusted to account for the canceled portion of the loan
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project's economic costs are limited to the total of expenditures for the project. The benefits
are quite difficult to quantify. However, increased export performance, diversification of exports,
setting up a modem institutional infrastructure for MSTQ services, introduction of electronic data
interchange in trade transactions, creating an enabling environment for labor mobility between the
public and private sector have all substantial long term economic benefits.
- 19-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) AMissions:
Stage of ProjecCyclei                No.' ofPersons ad Speciat                 aPerormanc Ratg
(eg.0 2 Economiists.1MEMS, etc.)    Implementation      Developmntit
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress .Objectve
Identification/Preparation          2   Division Chief
Identification                 Economist
June 1992
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                7   Mission Coord.+ Invt.
Dec. 1993                    Authorization
Social Sector Issues
IT Component
Productivity
Indicators/Industrial
Monitoring
Technology Diffusion
Scheme
MSTQ Infrastructure
Negotiations
March 1994
Supervision
August 1994              2  Economist                             HS                 HS
Consultant
March 1995               2  Economist                             HS                 HS
Consultant
Sept. 1995               2  Economist                              S                  S
Consultant
July 1996                 1  Economist                             S                  S
February 1997            4  Sr. Economist, TTL                     S                  S
Financial Economist
Consultant
Consultant
December 1997             1  Private Sector Dev. Spec.,TTL         S                  S
July 1998                 1  Private Sector Dev. Spec., TTL        S                  S
April 1999                1  Private Sector Dev. Spec.. TTL        S                  S
ICR
October 1999             1   Private Sector Dev. Spec..           HS                 HS
TTL
(b) Xtaff
Stage of ProjectlCycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate..
I.                   No. Staffweeks               :US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                  51                        135.7
- 20 -



Appraisal/Negotiatioi                    40                        98.9
Supervision                             120                       277.8
ICR                                       3                         9.0
Total                                   214                       521.4
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
2 Macro policies                            0 H  0 SU OM A( N  * NA
2 Sector Policies                            * H  0 SU (9 M  0 N  (9 NA
N Phvsical                                  * H  OSU:M S          N  (9NA
X Financial                                 OH  O SU()M           N  *NA
I institutional Development                  0 H  0 SU C ) M      N    ) NA
F Environmental                             0 H  0 SU ( ) M  ( N  0 NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  ( N  0 NA
Z Gender                             O H O SU () M ON * NA
D1 Other (Please specify)
P'rivate sector development                0 H  0 SU (: M  C) N  () NA
N Public sector management                  (H  C1) SU   Al f M   N  * NA
[ Otler (Please specify)
The project did not directly targeted poverty reduction and gender issues. Its objectives of private sector
development and higher economic growth by making Mauritian economy internationally competitive have
indirect implications on these issues.
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lendling                                          *HS ()S  () U  ()HU
S Supervision                                       *HHS()S   (U  ()HU
2 Overall                                           *HS   )S  ()U  ()HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
I-reparation                                       0 HS (.:S   U) U  (:) HU
G Government implementation performance             0 HS (:),S  (C) U  O HJ
3 Implementation agency performance                 0 HS (9.S  0 U  (9 HUl
X Overall                                           0 HS () S  () U  (H )I
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report
2. Aide Memoires
3. Mauritius Technology Diffusion Scheme - Interim Report by Segal Quince and Wickseed, October
1996
4. Mauritius Technology Diffusion Scheme - Mid-Term Review by New World Ventures, September 1997
5. Mauritius Technology Diffiusion Scheme - Final report by Segal Quince and Wickseed, November 1998
6. A Microeconometric Evaluation of the Mauritius Technology Diffusion Scheme - Tyler Biggs, October
1999
7. Comments to A Microeconometric Evaluation of the Mauritius Technology Diffusion Scheme by
Andrew Singer, Simon Gray,
A. Soylemezoglu, January 2000
8. Mauritius Standards Bureau Business Plan, 1997
9. Review of Retirement Savings System by Government Actuary's Department of the United Kingdom,
1998
10. The Central Statistics Office of Mauritius, Competitiveness Indicators
I 1. Mauritius Standards Bureau Progress Reports
12. Ministry of Finance, Progress Reports on TDI
- 24 -



