Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12693-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
MAY 2, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    =       Mauritius Rupee (Mau. Re)
USS1                             =       Mau. Rs 17.73 (December31, 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                      =       3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq. m)           =       10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                 =       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (sq. kin)     =       0.39 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP                      African, Caribbean and Pacific States
CAD                      Computer Assisted Design
CAM                      Computer Assisted Manufacturing
CIB                      Central Informaties Bureau (Ministry of Finance)
CISD                     Central Informatics Systems Division (Ministry of Finance)
CMT                      Cut-Make-Trim
CSO                      Central Statistical Office
EDB                      Economic Development Board (Singapore)
EDI                      Electronic Data Interchange
EPZ                      Export Processing Zone
EPZDA                    Export Processing Zone Development Authority
ETFS                     Electronic Trade Facilitation System
HKPC                     Hong Kong Productivity Council
ISO                      International Organization for Standardization
IT                      Information Technology
ITMP                     Information Technology Master Plan for the Mauritian Civil Service
IVTB                     Industrial and Vocational Training Board
MAB                      Management Audit Bureau (Ministry of Finance)
MASA                     Mauritian Society of Authors
MCCI                     Mauritius Chamber of Commerce and Industry
MEDIA                    Mauritius Export Development and Investment Authority
MEF                      Mauritius Employers Federation
MEPZA                    Mauritius Export Processing Zone Association
MFA                      Multi-Fibre Arrangement
MIIT                     Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology
MoF                      Ministry of Finance
MRC                      Mauritius Research Council
MSB                      Mauritius Standards Bureau
MSTQ                     Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
NCB                      National Computer Board
NIE                      Newly industrializing economy
NPB                      National Productivity Board (Singapore)
NPF                      National Pensions Fund
NPPC                     National Pay and Productivity Council (Mauritius)
PIP                      Public Investment Program
R & D                    Research and Development
SIL                      State Informatics Ltd.
SISIR                    Singapore Institute of Standards and Industrial Research
SITRAC                   State Informatics Training Center
SMIDO                    Small and Medium Industries Development Organization
SNS                      Singaporc Network Services
TDS                      Technology Diffusion Scheme
TQM                      Total Quality Management
TSC                      Technology Strategy for Competitiveness
VITB                     Vocational and Industrial Training Board (Singapore)
WIPO                     World Intellectual Property Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPQRT
REPUBLIC OF MAURITUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaeeNo.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........                         .................   i
I. INTRODUCON .1
II.  CHALLENGES TO COMPETITIVENESS AND THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY   2
A. Macroeconomic Context.                                                                   2
- Background.                                                                     2
- Recent Developments.                                                            3
B. Sectoral Context.                                                                        4
- Manufacturing.                                                                  4
- Tourism.                                                                        6
- Services.                                                                       7
C.     Country Vision and Technology Strategy for Competitiveness.                         9
D.    Technology Support Systems ..........             .........................  11
- Productivity .12
- Quality .14
-  Information Technology .17
-  Technology Intelligence .18
-  Technology Effort .18
- Design .19
-   Intellectual Property Protection .19
E.     Economic and Regulatory Reform Issues .............             ............... 20
-      Foreign Investment and Investment Authorization  ................. 20
-      Retirement Savings Systems ............................... 22
F.     Human Capital ............................................  23
The proposed project was appraised in December 1993 by a World Bank mission consisting of: Simon Gray
(AF3IE, Task Manager), Emmanuel Akpa (AF3 CO, Senior Country Economist), Govindan Nair (AF3IE, Financial
Economist), Masayuki Kondo (PSD, Industrial Economist), Stephen Gaull (AF3IE, Financial Analyst), Robert
Schware (LENTI, Senior Information Technology Specialist), Andrew Singer (Management Consultant) and Robert
Toth (MSTQ Consultant). Advice was received from Mr. Carl Dahiman (PSD), Lead Adviser, James C. Hanna
(LA3TF), Peer Reviewer and from Ms. Elizabeth Adu (LEGAF) and Mr. Paul Vandenheede (LOAAF), Counsel
and Disbursement Officer, respectively. Secretarial support was provided by Mrs. Francoise Schatten, Specialized
Staff Assistant (AF3IE). Messrs. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa (AF3DR) and Michael N. Sarris (AF3IE) are the
Department Director and the managing Division Chief, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



M.       THE PROJECT  . ...............................................  24
A.       Project Objectives and Scope           ................              ...................  24
B.       Rationale for IBRD Involvement             ...............             ..................  25
C.      Project Description          ...................               ......................  26
1. Diffusion of Good Technology Practices  .........               ..        ..............  26
2. Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure to Improve Export Quality  ....                     ....... 28
3. Trade Facilitation  .......................................  31
4. Economic and Regulatory Environment ..........                   ..       ..............  31
(a) Restructuring Investment Authorization  ..................... 31
(b) Review  of the Retirement Savings Systems ...................  32
(c) Developing Productivity and Competitiveness
Indicators and Improving the Monitoring of
Industrial Development ................................  33
D.       Project Costs   ....................                      ........................  33
E.       Project Financing        ................    ...................  34
F.       Project Implementation, Monitoring and Mid-Term  Review   ......                      ..........  34
G.       Procurement  ..................... ........................  35
H.       Disbursements  ..................... .......................  36
I.       Accounting, Auditing and Reporting   .............                        .................  39
J.       Project Supervision         ...................                ......................  39
IV.      PROJECT BENEFITS AND  RISKS   .............                               .................  40
A.       Project Benefits  ......................................  40
B.       Project Risks ........................................  40
V.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....                                              ....... 41
BOXS
Box 2.1           TradeNet in Singapore: Responding to the Challenge
of the New  Global Competitive Environment ......                   .........   8
Box 2.2           Role of Government in Technology Services: Example of
Hong Kong and Singapore .10
Box 2.3           Cost Sharing Schemes Around the World .15
Box 2.4  Definition of MSTQ .16
TABLES
Table 2.1         Indicators of International Competitiveness in
the EPZ (1983-1992) .13
Table 3.1    Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .37
Table 3.2  Summary of Disbursements .38



ANNEXES
Annex 1      Comprehensive Strategy for MSTQ Implementation in Mauritius
Annex 2      Main Technical Assistance and Training Activities: Summary Description of First
Year Tasks
Annex 3      Detailed Project Costs
Annex 4      Estimated Disbursement Categories, Percentages and Profile
Annex 5      Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 6      Monitorable Indicators
Annex 7      Project Supervision Plan
Annex 8      Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects






REPUBLIC OF MAURMUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETllIVENESS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Republic of Mauritius.
Beeficiaries: Private Sector Entrepreneurs; Ministries of Finance and Industry &  Industrial
Technology; Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB).
Amount:      USS 7.7 million.
Terms:       Repayable in 15 years, including five-year grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Pro
Objectives:   The overall objective of the project is to help enhance export competitiveness and thereby
prospects for sustainable rapid growth by facilitating private sector access to lnow-how
for improved productivity, quality, design and response times, as well as diversification
of export production.  The strategy is to develop demand-responsive systems to
strengthen the skills and technology infrastructure and services and to encourage private
sector provision of these services. To ensure that these initiatives lead to tangible and
early results, the project would also improve the delivery of public services to the private
sector and support the implementation of economic and regulatory reforms conducive to
the development of a competitive and technology-friendly enviromnent. Productivity
increases and diversification of production into new export markets and products would
be amongst the monitorable indicators against which the success of the proposed project
would be judged.
Descripiion:  The project consists of:
(a)    promoting the diffusion of good technology practices through a Technology
Diffusion Scheme which would share the cost in improving the private sector's
access to productivity, quality, and design services, and to information on new
technologies. The scheme is designed to be demand responsive and promote the
private sector delivery of these services, catalyzing the development of an active
market in private technology support systems;
(b)   strengthening the MSTQ (metrology, standards, testing, quality) infrastructure
to improve export quality, through: (i) support to the Mauritius Standards Bureau
(MSB) in the establishment of a national quality system; institutional and
management upgrading; the strengthening of complementary activities in the
areas of metrology, testing and information dissemination; and, enhancing the
image of the institution in key international fora; and (ii) in developing a National



- ii -
MSTQ Accreditation Council, whose initial principal functions will be
independent laboratory accreditation;
(c)   trade facilitation through the Implementation of a program to speed up the
process of trade documentation clearance, and to streamline critical procedural
and operational areas in import and export documentation, with the aim of
eliminating the need physically to present documents to various organizations
concerned; and
(d)   the implementation of some aspects of economic and regulatory reform outlined
in recent sector work, specifically provision of technical assistance: in
restructuring the investment authorization process to improve the acquisition of
foreign technology; in reviewing and restructuring the retirement savings system
to improve flexibility in factor markets; and in developing competitiveness and
productivity indicators to improve access to information by both the private and
public sectors.
The loan would finance technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies.
Renefits:    The implementation of a technology development project in Mauritius improves the
prospects for sustainable growth in the country. Full employment and increasing
competition in international markets require technological advancement if the economy
is to continue expanding. Indeed, unless Mauritius succeeds in building a technologically
dynamic productive sector, it risks losing its comparative advantage even in the
traditional sectors. Successful implementation of the project will lead to productivity
gains to make possible non-inflationary wage increases and improvements in Mauritius's
standard of living. Finally, investment in new industries will be enhanced through the
reform of investment authorization and the retirement savings system, which will
mobilize long-term savings for investment.
1Lib:        Risks of the project center on its novelty. All the components require intensive skldled
human resource deployment to ensure success in the development of institutional
capacities and to their efficient execution. The project has been structured in such a way,
with implementation decentralized to highly motivated agencies, so as to minimize these
risks. The risk of lack of Government ownership is low. Government has a consistent
record of initiatives to develop a private sector-friendly environment, and has actively
participated and pursued the development of this project.
Re of reu: N.A.
ronment: No environmental risks are foreseen.



- iii -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(in US$ '000)
%      % Total
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign     Total Exchange   Costs
A. Technology Diffusion Scheme
Management Contract                                                       227      223       450        49         4
Technology Service Contracts                                              510     4,590     5,100       90        41
Subtotal Technology Diffusion Scheme                                       737      4,813    5,550        87        45
B. Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure to Improve Export Quality
1. Strengthening Mauritius Standards Bureau
Establishment of National Quality System                                565       687     1,252        55        10
Managemnent and Institutional Upgrading                                 101       456      557         82        5
Complementary Services and Supporting Facilities                        116     2,312     2,428       95        20
Enhancing Image and Reputation of Mauritian MSTQ Standards                0       176       176       100        1
Subtotal Strengthening Mauritius Standards Bureau                        782      3,631     4,413       82        36
2. Strengthening National MSTQ Accreditation Council                        6       52        58        89         0
Subtotal Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure to Improve Export Quality       788      3,683    4,471        82        36
C. Improved Delivery of Public Services through Trade Facilitation          76      1,681     1,757       96        14
D. Regulatory and Economic Environment
Restructure Investment Authorization                                        7        52       59        88         0
Retirement Savings Systems Review                                         227       132      359        37         3
Productivity and Competitiveness Analysis                                  40        79      119        66         1
Industrial Monitoring and Policy Formulation                                8        36       44        81         1
Subtotal Regulatory and Economic Environment                               282       299       581        51         5
Total BASELEIE COSTS                                                         1,883    10,476    12,359       85       100
Physical Contingencies                                                     69      294       363        81         3
Price Contingencies                                                        85      464       549        85         4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          2,037    11,234    13,271       85       107
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                                                          1995     1996      1997      1998      1999
Annual                                                                    0.84      2.67      2.92      1.01     0.26
Cumulative                                                                0.84      3.51     6.43      7.44      7.70



- iv -
Financine Plan:
(Million USS)
,,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .   .:   . . . . .   . . .   . .. . . . . . . . .' 
-RA .. XCAMV0:                                         TTOrA
IBRD                         0.52                  7.18            7.70       58.0
Govemnment                   1.25                  1.64            2.89       21.8
Privato Sector               0.27                  2.41            2.68       20.2
Operators
TOTAL                        2.04                  11.23           13.27      100.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.
Ma: IBRD No. 24629



-REPUBLIC OF MAURrrUS
TECS3WCAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE!CO3MPET111WNESS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCION
1.1    In the 1980s, the Mauritian economy grew by an average of 6 percent per annum, virtually
eliminating unemployment and doubling per capita income to US$2,500 by the end of the decade. Growth
was export led, fueled by relatively cheap labor and preferential access to markets in Europe and the USA
for the country's principal exports, sugar and garments. Notwithstanding this success, there are growing
challenges to competitiveness and the sustainability of growth. New competitors have emerged in
traditional Mauritian labor-intensive exports, and returns to investment in the Export Processing Zone
(EPZ) have been falling steadily. The kernel of the problem is that productivity is not increasing fast
enough to keep pace with wages that have been rising as a result of near full employment, thus eroding
competitiveness. Moreover, while the EPZ is starved of labor, due to rigidities in factor markets, there
are pockets of underutilized labor reserves in the civil service and sugar industries. To attain real 5-
6 percent GDP growth per capita annually 11, Mauritius will need to: (i) strengthen technological
capacity to ensure that productivity increases exceed rises in real wages, and (ii) enhance flexibility in
factor markets to enable labor and savings to flow to their most efficient uses.
1.2    Countries which faced similar problems but continued to grow rapidly (e.g., Korea, Singapore,
Hong Kong and Taiwan) have devoted attention and resources to technology and skills development while
they were still where Mauritius is now. Although the specifics may differ, fundamental to all is a
competitive environment where, to survive, firms need to improve production quality and be price
competitive. This environment provides the basis for demand for improved technology. But technology
in such countries has also been a central, active concern of Government. Firms have been encouraged
to obtain technology from wherever it is available, and have frequently been provided with incentives to
do so. Furthermore, various forms of common technological services have been stimulated and often
provided by Government. This 'technological infrastructure' has included technical training and
education institutions and programs; cost sharing schemes for training and technology acquisition to
improve productivity in the work place; strengthening standards related services to enhance product
quality; and applied research and development.
1.3   In response to international market pressures and tight domestic labor markets, Mauritian
enterprises have sought to enhance their capacity to compete through the upgrading and mechanization
of a number of production processes. However, the acquisition of machinery on its own is not proving
sufficient for higher productivity: access to know-how on how best to utilize capital and labor for
improved quality and service has become critical to determining competitiveness. This has led to
increasing firm demands for technology support services. In an effort to be responsive, Government, in
partnership with the private sector and with support from the Bank, has elaborated a Technology Strategy
for Competitveness (lSC), whose central objective is to improve Mauritius's capacity to compete on
quality and quick response as well as price in existing activities, while developing new higher-technology
exports. The strategy emphasizes that for technology support initiatives to succeed, certain economic and
regulatory reforms are required to improve flexibility in factor markets and to create a unified and
1[    As reflected in the objectives of the 1992-1994 National Development Plan



-2 -
transparent investment framework. The proposed project would support the implementation of this
strategy, both for strengthening technology support systems and where technical assistance is required
to implement economic and regulatory reform.
1.4    The project will specifically: (i) promote the diffusion of good technology practices, through the
creation of a technology diffusion scheme to stimulate an active market in productivity, quality,
technology adaption and design services; (ii) strengthen the MSTQ (metrology, standards, testing, quality)
infrastructure to enhance export quality; (iii) improve delivery of public sector services to the private
sector by facilitating trade procedures; and (iv) support economic and regulatory reform, notably in the
streamlining of the investment authorization process and in the review and restructuring of the retirement
savings system.
II. CHALLENGES TO COMPETITIVENESS AND THE ROLE OF
TECHNOLOGY
A.    Macroeconomic Context
Background
2.1    The Republic of Mauritius, a small island nation of about 1.1 million inhabitants, has transformed
itself from a predominantly agrarian economy into an industrialized one over the last two decades, and
in the process has virtually eliminated unemployment. Mauritius comprises a group of four islands in the
Indian Ocean, with a total area of 1,870 square kilometers. The main island of Mauritius, located some
800 km east of Madagascar, accounts for 91 percent of the land area and 97 percent of the population.
The other islands are Rodriguez (population: 38,000) and the islands of Agalega (population: 400 for the
two).
2.2   The country is a mosaic of diverse ethnic groups: Hindus (52 percent), Creoles (27 percent), sub-
continent Muslims (17 percent), and Chinese and Franco-Mauritians (4 percent). After independence in
1968, Mauritius underwent four years of ethnic unrest. It went on to evolve into one of the most vibrant
multi-party democracies of the developing world. The resulting political stability and the entrepreneurial
spirit of its people enabled Mauritius to take advantage of favorable external conditions to transform itself
from a sugar-dependent economy with per capita income of some US$400 to a country with a
strengthened and diversified export base and per capita income of about US$2,800 in 1992. In the post
independence period social indicators also improved markedly: life expectancy increased from 64 years
to 70; infant mortality declined from 60 per thousand to 20; adult literacy improved from 70 percent to
almost 85 percent; and access to safe water went from 60 percent to nearly 100 percent. The population
is currently growing at a rate of 0.8 percent, having been brought down from 2 percent in the 1970s
through a combination of social change due to rapid economic growth and a successful family planning
program.
2.3   In addition to the stable socio-political environment and reduced demographic pressures,
Mauritius owes its progress to the Govermnent's ability to design and successfully implement economic
policies adapted to changing internal and external circumstances. Following strong growth in the first
decade of independence on the back of a sugar boom, the second oil price shock reversed the terms of
trade and triggered balance of payments difficulties. Government initially tried to maintain growth by
increased Government spending, but then pursued successful structural adjustment programs with the



-3 -
Fund and Bank, and by the mid-1980s macroeconomic stability had been restored and a framework for
a private sector-based, outward-looking, and employment intensive growth strategy was firmly in place.
Political stability, abundant literate labor, and preferential access to the EEC and US markets attracted
local and foreign (primarily Asian) investment into the textile industry which rapidly expanded exports.
At the same time, while the contribution of sugar to total exports declined, sugar output rose, fueled by
above market prices guaranteed to Mauritian producers under the African, Caribbean and Pacific States
(ACP) Sugar Protocol with the EEC. Finally, tourism expanded in response to investments and
promotional efforts capitalizing on the island's pleasant weather and unspoiled environment. As a result,
the economy resumed growth at over 7 percent annually during the 1984-88 period, and real per capita
income rose 50 percent.
2.4    The private sector and women have played strong roles in the Mauritian economy. Over the past
two decades the private sector has accounted for 70-75 percent of investment, the bulk of growth and
exports. With their high level of literacy (77 percent of those aged 15 years and above compared with
38 percent for Sub-Saharan Africa) Mauritian women have participated actively in the expansion of the
economy. At the end of 1992, they represented 71 percent of employment in the Export Processing Zone
(EPZ).
Recent Developments
2.5    Following demand pressures from generous wage settlements in 1987 and monetary expansion
associated with the rapid buildup of net foreign assets in 1985, inflation accelerated from 0.6 percent in
1987 to 9 percent in 1988, and the extemal account surplus declined from 6.5 percent of GDP to 1.1
percent over the year. In discussion with the Fund and the Bank, and after extensive internal debate,
Government decided to: (i) scale back on an over-ambitious public investment program (PIP) and
strengthen public savings to finance a greater share of the PIP; (ii) begin using excess liquidity in public
hands, rather than bank borrowing to finance the budgetary deficit; and (iii) start liberalizing the financial
system in the late 1980s and early 1990s.
2.6    Mauritius over the 1989-91 period experienced lower growth (5.5 percent) and higher inflation
(10.2 percent), compared with the preceding three years when growth and inflation averaged 8 percent
and 5 percent, respectively. At the same time, however, increases in real wages exceeded those in
productivity, and the external balance worsened (the current account before official transfers went from
an average surplus of 1 percent p.a. during 1986-88 to a deficit of 4.3 percent p.a. during 1989-91).
Vigorous corrective measures in 1990-91 to curb aggregate demand, reduce inflation and improve
external balance performance resulted in stronger growth performance in 1992 (6.7 percent) and reduced
inflation (4.5 percent). Despite drought in 1993 affecting sugar output, initial estimates put real GDP
growth at almost 6 percent.
2.7    Mauritius now faces a number of constraints. All the factors of production - labor, land and
capital - are being heavily utilized, except in the public and sugar sectors where there are pockets of
underemployed labor due to rigidities in factor markets. There are signs that recent increases in
productivity have been more than offset by increased competition on the world market, which is discussed
in greater detail in Section B. The economic and regulatory system, created in the past to underpin two
distinct incentive environments for the export sector and the domestic sector, fosters market rigidities that
exacerbate the factor shortages. Investment incentive schemes have proliferated and remain sector
specific, engendering significant distortions, which prevents the efficient allocation of resources. In light



- 4 -
of these constraints, the Government has recognized the need to update the policy agenda as reflected in
the most recent National Development Plan.
2.8    The main policy orientations of the 1992 - 1994 National Development Plan can be summarized
as follows: greater reliance on market forces for allocation of labor and capital; progressive removal of
discrimination in favor of the export sector to allow efficient resource allocation across the whole
economy and a fuller development of linkages between the export and non-export sectors; replacement
of labor intensity and employment creation as a strategy with a quest for higher value-added and
diversification of export production; enhancement of efficiency in the public and private sectors. A
number of initiatives, including tax and tariff reforms with IMF assistance and rationalization of the
investment incentive framework under the Country Economic Memorandum, are currently being pursued
to achieve these objectives. This project largely focuses on measures aimed at enhancing export
competitiveness in the private sector and efficiency in the public sector in an effort to move away from
labor-intensive operations, in addition to assisting certain economic and regulatory reforms conducive to
developing a technology friendly environment where factors of production flow to their most efficient use.
B.    Sectoral Context
Manufacturing
2.9    The competitive challenge to Mauritius is typified by the issues facing the manufacturing sector,
which accounts for 39 percent of formal employment, and in terms of value-added and exports,
constitutes the largest sector in the economy. It is segmented into two largely unrelated sub-sectors:
import substitution and the EPZ.
2.10   The Export Processing Zone. The 1980s witnessed strong growth in the EPZ, with its
contribution to total employment rising from 12 to 32 percent and its share of GDP expanding from 4
to 12 percent. With the rapid increase in textile exports in the 1983-1988 period - when the number of
EPZ firms increased from 129 to 591, employment soared from 23,000 to 89,000, and exports expanded
from US$112 to US$609 million - textile and garment manufacturing now accounts for 90 percent of
employment in the EPZ. Labor productivity, while estimated to have fallen 10 percent as employment
tripled between 1983 and 1986, has since rebounded as many enterprises progressively improved
technological and managerial efficiencies and labor migrated from inefficient to efficient firms in the late
1980s and early 1990s.
2.11   Despite this outstanding growth and ongoing efforts by some EPZ firms to improve productivity,
Mauritius has been hard pressed to keep pace with increasing competition in the world market. The
value-added content of exports declined from 42 percent to 36 percent over the 1983 to 1991 period, and
similarly the operating surplus in the EPZ (value-added less labor cost as a percentage of total exports)
has dropped from 22 percent to 17 percent. In short, Mauritan manufacturers have not been able to
upgrade their product lines fast enough to compensate for falling margins on world markets, due to
Increasingly Intense nternational competition from low-cost producers.
2.12 One major feature of this competitive international market, illustrated by the textile sector, is the
segmentation between the low-cost, high-volume segment which has lower profit margins, and the higher
fashion-sensitive segment of the market in which the factors of competitiveness are design, quality and
quick delivery.



2.13   In Mauritius's apparel industry, about one half of garment manufacturers operate in the low end
of the market. Despite preferential access to EEC and US markets, sharp competition from labor-surplus
producers such as Indonesia, Sri Lanka, China and Vietnam, has resulted in high failure rates, and raises
doubts as to the long-term viability of these low-end operations. To date, firms have followed three
different adjustment strategies: (i) upgrading into mid-market products; (ii) relocation of labor-intensive
operations (Mauritian firms have relocated a few plants to Madagascar, while Hong Kong groups tend
to relocate to the Caribbean, with privileged access to the U.S. market); and (iii) use of immigrant labor
from Madagascar, Sri Lanka, India and other labor-surplus countries. While the first two options can
provide a viable solution, the latter option is only a transitory expedient and may in fact delay the overall
adjustment process in the industrial sector.
2.14   In the mid-market segment of the apparel industry, international competitiveness is a function of
design, quality and delivery, as well as cost. These requirements have prompted technological progress
in Mauritius in design, cutting, sewing/stitching and production organization techniques, but much
remains to be accomplished, especially among the smaller- to medium-sized firms, before international
best practices are achieved. Larger Mauritian enterprises have computer assisted design (CAD) systems,
but the training and technical support needed to operate them often preclude their use by smaller
operators. Computerized precision cutting has not been widely introduced into the country, but may be
a prerequisite for companies moving to up-market quality garments. Automated stitching machines can
be found in many of the medium to larger firms, but because of lack of access to skilled labor and
maintenance services, the industry still mostly relies on outdated basic sewing machines. This poses a
problem as the operation of these basic sewing machines in Mauritius is not competitive compared with
countries endowed with abundant labor. In addition, a number of production organization issues need to
be addressed to improve productivity, such as conveyer (manual or automated) cloth-handling procedures
as opposed to the traditional bundle system, and the phasing out of traditional taylorian assembly lines
in favor of group work systems.
2.15   In fabric formation, similar technology and productivity challenges need to be met. Knitting hand
flats are gradually being abandoned due to labor shortages, but the costs of automation and requirements
to diversify into fine-gauge knitwear are proving difficult transitions to make, for both small and large
industries. While larger Mauritian firms (and some Hong Kong groups) have invested heavily in
automation and vertically integrated into dyeing and finishing, many Hong Kong groups prefer to follow
a strategy of operating flexibility, and where appropriate, to relocate their production to surplus cheap
labor countries. Weaving is also facing problems. Whereas the two new weaving factories have state-of-
the-art equipment, efficiency is low due to management and marketing problems.
2.16   Beyond upgrading problems associated with particular production processes, the textile/garment-
dominated EPZ also needs to improve its capabilities in three critical areas. Management needs to be
upgraded in line with modernization and growing demands in cost accounting, inventory control and
equipment maintenance. With reject rates in Mauritius estimated as high as three times those in
industrialized countries, quality management needs to be dramatically improved. Finally, general
production scheduling needs more attention with complex production structures in order to develop
systems that effectively link order processing, production control and despatch information.
2.17   More generally, in view of the high levels of absenteeism and labor turnover in the EPZ, and
strained industrial relations economy-wide, there is an urgent need to improve human resource
management systems, so that labor identifies itself more closely with the goals of the production unit and
productivity can be significantly enhanced.



-6-
2.18   The Non-EPZ. Non- EPZ firms are involved in a variety of activities, such as food processing,
assembly of electrical appliances and transport equipment, metal products, printing and publishing,
plastics and chemicals. These industries count about 400 firms employing 18,000 workers (excluding
sugar milling), representing 6 percent of formal employment, and officially account for 9 percent of
GDP at market prices. 2/ By international standards, economic efficiency and technological capability
are low among non-EPZ firms, which are generally small (50 employees on average, against 160 in the
EPZ), tend to operate below economic scale, and often lack information on international markets and
technologies. Furthermore, non-EPZ industries, despite recent incentives to make them more outward
orientated, are not major exporters, and have limited direct linkages with the EPZ sector.
2.19   While the non-EPZ industries have technology challenges similar to the EPZ to upgrade to
international best practice, unlike the EPZ there is little incentive for them to improve their capacity to
compete because of the business environment in which they exist. On the one hand they are protected by
relatively high import barriers, and on the other hand they are subject to more stringent labor regulations
and in some cases informal credit rationing and price controls. Primary issues in improving efficiency
in this sector therefore revolve around getting the incentive environment right rather than in improving
systems of technology acquisition, intelligence, diffusion and improvement.
Tourism
2.20   Mauritius has established itself as a successful tourist destination. Tourism is the third largest
gross foreign exchange earner behind the EPZ and sugar sectors, with its contribution to total exports
increasing from 5.9 percent in 1975, to 14.9 percent in 1990. A high rate of investment in the hotel
industry was accompanied by a rise in the overall occupancy rate during the second half of the 1980s.
The relative slow down in 1991-92, while partially attributed to the Gulf war and economic recession in
tourist countries of origin, is also a result of intensified competition from destinations in the Asian and
Caribbean regions.
2.21   The growth of tourism in Mauritius is juxtaposed against concerns for environmental balance and
local acceptance of mass tourism in a relatively small island. Since 1988, Government's stated policy has
been to emphasize low-impact, high-end tourism, which maintains the country's upmarket profile and
which emphasizes increased expenditure per tourist and per tourist night. In practice, however, there are
signs that tourism development in Mauritius has diverged from this stated policy with some growth in
the low-end of the market.
2.22   In the 1990s, the industry faces at least three inter-related challenges. First, the emergence of
strong competing tourist destinations worldwide means that Mauritius needs continually to review its
product strategy, possibly packaging the traditional 'sun and beach" product with cultural and natural
history attractions or joint destinations with other countries in Africa and the Indian Ocean. Second, to
respond to an increasingly sophisticated tourist market there is a need for more flexible and market-
sensitive promotional strategies that allow tourists to select from a wide variety of options depending on
their specific tastes and preferences. Third, ensuring tourism development which is consistent with stated
2/     Data on contribution to GDP and total employment suggests much higher productivity
in the non-EPZ than in the EPZ. This can be largely attributed to price distortions in
the non-EPZ.



- 7 -
national policy, emphasizing high-end tourism and environmental balance, will require better strategic
planning, implementation and monitoring of tourism policy.
2.23   Technology, and specifically information technology (IT), will play an increasingly important role
in meeting these challenges by ensuring quick response, improving the quality of the product and in
lowering costs. This could include developing market and destination information systems along with
support for systems that improve destination reservation and hotel automation. The challenge to
Mauritius is to provide the necessary environment in which these important tools can best be developed.
Services
2.24   Until recently Mauritius's competitive edge was relatively cheap labor. With the achievement
of full employment and prevailing rigidities in the labor market, this source of competitiveness has largely
vanished. As the country upgrades production in manufacturing and strives to be innovative in tourism,
efficient support services in the public and financial sectors, along with the development of new
technology related services, will be key to facilitating the acquisition, diffusion and improvement of
technology. The prevailing situation and future prospects with regard to the role of technology in public
sector services and financial services are discussed below.
2.25   Public Sector Services. Administrative delays in the approval of new and expansion investment
are a fimdamental problem to technology acquisition in Mauritius. Both foreign and domestic investors
must follow cumbersome procedures for investment approval, certificate status (to qualify for a myriad
of incentives), and the various other licenses that are required before starting operations in Mauritius.
Many of these authorizations are discretionary and lack transparency. The institution of the One Stop
Shop in 1990 has not resolved this problem as the underlying authorization requirements imposed are still
in place.
2.26   Similarly the productivity of Mauritian enterprises and their ability to implement quick response
production strategies is undermined by administrative delays, notably in trade-related procedures. At
present, trade documentation clearance takes between two to four days, involving an average of seven
agencies (including customs) in the public and private sectors. Furthermore, in an environment
characterized by labor shortages, assigning staff to handle cumbersome bureaucratic procedures has a high
opportunity cost.
2.27   The development of IT in the public sector can improve the quality of a number of its services,
facilitating co-ordination, reducing waiting times and improving turnaround of applications in many areas.
While an Information Technology Masterplan was prepared in 1992, a number of issues remain to be
resolved, including the elaboration of objectives; policy guidelines for IT use; human resource planning;
decentralization; and the cost, benefits and sequencing of individual projects of primary importance in
the delivery of public services in the trade sector. The Ministry of Finance's institutional improvement
program to enhance the competitiveness of the trading sector by speeding up the process of trade
documentation and clearance and streamlining critical procedural and operational areas in import and
export documentation will culminate in the development of a new electronic trade facilitation system
(EiFS). The principal aim of this system is to utilize trade data bases and Electronic Data Interchange



-8 -
(EDI) for electronic trade facilitation and to reduce trade export/import approvals from days to minutes. I/
This will involve electronically connecting the principal government departments involved in trade, such
as Customs and Port Authorities, and their main trade interface partners, freight forwarders, and
exporters and importers. The electronic trade facilitation system is being established under a joint-venture
arrangement between the Governments of Mauritius and Singapore (through the publicly-owned Singapore
Network Services (SNS)) (See Box 2.1).
fBo  2,1; TradeNet iu Sinapore: Responding: to the Chalee of the Nw Globa-
Compefitive Environm:nt
- Singapore  nual external trade   f over 1US115 billion is equiVAnt   o  tn        ti
e  odut. e 030,X0~0 0X0 shp- fromw7( shipping lines o mo               8X0 c rt                t
Singapore ery year. The need to lower unit costs of operation, provide faster turaround time , ad devlop
link with other wodes of transport led the government to launch a major IT-bled system as, part of. 0X-
IT prga    hi  bganin, 1985.
X    n :F0 0 gS: :   ;-f   :ffE  :ffff:  0;           d0  .  ...............
The system,- called TradeNet, electronically links government agencies, traders, transport compnie*, hpVhlg
lines,; f0rt 0* fotwares banks and airlines. An on-line information transfer allows tradeand  i st
taranc   be pacpleted withini 15 minutes, rather than the two days taken previously.Througih Use of on-
ommon Oectronic documntewichcan be submitted round the clock, TradeNet provide oetop and 'su-
stop*0 serviceto shippers And traders. The government estimates that TradeNet saves traders ab:out US1
ilio 0anualythr          reduced delays sad fewer needs for personnel to process paper.
2.28   Financial Services.  Increasing competition and the deepening of the financial markets to
provide access to long-term funds through a diversity of instruments is crucial to modernizing productive
capacity. At the end of the 1980s, the principal obstacles to expanded saving and investment were largely
(i) government's bank credit ceilings and interest rate controls, which reduced competition among banks
causing them to hold excess liquidity, and (ii) the underdevelopment of capital markets, which limited
the capacity of the financial sector in mobilizing long-term resources for investment. In 1992 and 1993
Government took important steps to liberalize credit allocation, while significant institutional and market
development have taken place over the last five years. As Mauritius moves towards more capital
intensive investments, long-term savings become increasingly important sources of finance, where efforts
to strengthen capital markets to improve access to long-term credit and equity funds need to be supported.
The sound operation of both public and private pension systems could be an important contribution to the
efficient mobilization of long-term resources; this is discussed in more detail in Section E below.
2.29   With ongoing financial deregulation, bank interest margins, fees, and revenues from foreign
exchange are likely to be squeezed, which might give rise to greater product diversification, such as off-
shore banking, and increased pressures to enhance the competitiveness and productivity of financial
intermediation. International experiences of financial deregulation in the 1980s also, however, hold
important lessons for regulators and policy makers, effectively to reconcile the pursuit of safety with the
efficiency of the free market place. In all these three areas of diversification, enhancing competitiveness
I/   EDI came about in the mid-1980s. It allows computer-to-computer exchange of standard
business documents, e.g., invoices, bills of lading.



-9-
and productivity and improving the effectiveness of financial regulation, IT is, and will increasingly
become, an important tool to both bankers and bank regulators.
C.    Country Vision and Technology Strategy for Competitiveness
2.30   Based on past performance Mauritians have reason to be confident in their ability to meet the
productivity and technology challenges they face in sustaining growth into the 1990s and beyond. As
reflected in government's medium-term National Development Plan for 1992-94, the objective is to attain
a real GNP per-capita growth rate of about 5 percent annually through the year 2000. This vision of
Government for the 1990s would bring per capita income up to US$4,000 by 2001 and cross the
US$6,000 mark (Portugal's current income level) by 2010. Government's strategy (as indicated in the
1992 to 1994 National Development Plan and in various pieces of recent legislation such as the Industrial
Expansion Act of 1993) in achieving these objectives is to: (i) consolidate existing strengths through
encouraging modernization and upgrading; and (ii) diversify into new economic activities in
manufacturing, services and agriculture.
2.31   In this vision is the concept that through the immediate process of diversification and upgrading,
the country will move to a new plateau of productive capacity where competitiveness will be determined
more by the country's capacity to compete on quality and quick response than simply on cost alone. In
the near term, the island can rely on its naturally endowed advantage for high-end tourism, on
productivity gains in garment manufacturing, and on sugar exports. Beyond the immediate future, several
scenarios can be envisaged. The EPZ might branch into higher value-added textiles and garments as well
as non-textile industries. The agriculture sector could increase its production of non-sugar crops. There
are prospects for the island to create and occupy a niche as a successful design center linking the textile,
garment, leather, jewelry and tourist industries. Capitalizing on its unique combination of assets - a
literate, bilingual population; political stability; strong historical and cultural ties with Europe and Asia;
an appealing image for foreign investors and professionals; and reasonable physical infrastructure -
Mauritius could also become a regional hub for investors with interests in Madagascar and continental
Africa, and serve as a gateway for firms from the Far East and other regions of the world. In this event,
growth would arise from the development of financial, consulting, trade, communications, education, and
other information-intensive services.
2.32   In pursuing this policy of upgrading and diversification, the authorities look east for inspiration,
viewing their country as a potential Indian Ocean 'tiger' following in the footsteps of the Asian Newly
Industrialized Economies (NIEs), able to achieve financially and environmentally sustainable growth, with
the benefits shared equitably by the population. In learning from the Asian experience, it is apparent that
governments of NIEs have two common orientations in their growth strategies: ensuring the business
environment is private sector friendly and export oriented; and promoting the development of technology
support systems. Beyond these two common foci, their competitiveness strategies varied widely. Given
the small size of Mauritius and its high trade dependance, the Hong Kong and Singapore approaches are
the most relevant, with their emphasis on the importance of competitive pressures and a well-managed
public infrastructure in developing a conducive business environment, and their support for the
development of technology related services (See Box 2.2).
2.33   Drawing on these experiences, it is proposed that Mauritius's development strategy should be
oriented, firstly, at developing an open and transparent economic and regulatory environment aimed at
enhancing competitiveness across the economy as a whole, rather than employing narrowly targeted



- 10 -
"I:. A6l     G                Technoogy Services: Eo x       it               n
The approacbes of Hong Kong and Singappor  ith respect to  W . p
of the options that can be pursed in developing a technology infstructure.
Hong Kong authorities were initially reluctant to take the lead in the aea of techniolgy iftr"ture
i~~~~~~ ~~                                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   .  .. ,...-.
a4d relied exclusively on fte private sector to provide technology-relted services.  However [-busn and
diacademic ccles in Hong Kong became concerned that'e hteitory was fallig behind moter m   n  E
40veopmet and applicai  ofnewtecnogi, and vinW            te ove        t to 
echnoogy support, although the emphasis, wherever possible, continues to be onbthe provisinfthlogy-
relatdervicesby thpriv h  etor. the :Hong Kong gover      t is aive n fiOjo a    -a
-  informatIono  i4ternational standards and   aity s p d   by  a         
':'*  org:nizations, notably thbe Trade Development Council and the Hong  Kong Productivity Council
: -E metrology services are provided for calibration purposes;
a voluntary laboratoty accreditation scheme is operated by the (3overnrnent for:the manivate
testin2 laboratories. By 1992, 43 laboratories had been accredit  under the schemde,co gawi
ran1eo0 of Opts.WU   Mutual recogititon agreements have been established with: viaious aeita
schemes overseas (including USA, UK and Australia), 0so that  iucts need not u  n idergofrthe teitwin.
Wi these cunutries if they have obtined a satisfacory test reportf    an accredit  labrtory in Hon
productiity and Aquality consutancy is provided at subsidized    sby                   C.
Government also runs a quali aw       campaign through picit semia  and an awar s 
thoe Government also subsidizes the Hong Kong Qulity WAsucAency,   independetrnitio
e u  to audit finsfor coiance with the ISO 9000 quaity. standd.i
Hong Kon           b Wg'sa c     technology-s rt services is, to Sti te ptiay  eit.  t
asistance tothird parties ;(such as thZeHong Kong Federation of I tries) or through the esllsbnut 1f an
arCs  lengthorganization like HXPC.0:   Government involetistedto rasw0 eet           p       t
ill tot operte, but ar  setial: to help local firms remain: competitive,: in nernatilona   akts    h
although the Government estab ed the first and princal sRtandlards  d  teting labora
opete  under the auspices of the FedertioM of Hong Kong I tres,  t         services are nowimostly
provided by the      sector IThere   also a number of   tancyfins offg advic,assistan
trainins in productivity and quality management. To an extent, the  firis o twith HKPC'btthelattter
iS 0 supposed t withdraw frrom areas where the private sector is willig and able to provtde support services .
0 - 0 it-ftSing  =            cts ~althougb h| ffa0yo w            ds
Singpore  a~ppoc is similar imayrespects, WlhuhteGvrmn  enst eapcnrle
fth  su0ppIy ,of. essntal tehnology-upport sytems for alogrtMe,an  to.b   oecmeligi  h
achiSevement of quaity standars  I n particular, the Governmen has usedsas     netting s-.pat . o ...
national poicy9 to upgrade te quality 'and reliability. The Singapoe Idsttut of Standars nd ndt'
.....rl ..... R  incorporae WIti )one ~institution a varietyof functi,on::. in ..in  tutroloy  tnad
Vetn, laoaory acrdiaio,testig filtie  and~ some pTrodc dKevelomnt0iVdsgnatviis
t    .   r  ~~~~~~~~,,,, , ,, , ~~~~~~~~~~~. .   '        .   r. .   .,,.=
11anardshav beepuse by the Singpoe  overnment as a mean  -opop tehooyugrdn   m
-a   fira  adcldowqualitimprts.   Iadition 6SISIR, t     a   ow  . v ie                  i
.test, tsig. serces, and the Singapore   v    t has o            v mentof o tan              s
p00ructiity a     lty management through a cost-sharing grant Scheme.
incentives to promote specific sectors. And secondly, in the same vein, the development strategy should
ensure the development of public infrastructure and technology support services which are responsive



- 11 -
to demand, and promote, wherever possible, the private sector provision of services, while avoiding the
development of heavy public sector institutions that are narrowly focussed on supporting selected
industrial groups.
2.34   To realize the Mauritian vision, Government in close collaboration with the private sector has
embarked upon developing and implementing a Technology Strategy for Competitiveness (SC). The
elaboration of the strategy is an iterative process, which involves both (i) reviewing key government
policies to ensure they support the private sector's drive for competitiveness, and (ii) defining a role for
the public sector in facilitating access to technology support services, which resolve infrastructural
constraints and address market failures, while not crowding out private sector initiative and endeavor.
This project supports the implementation of certain aspects of this strategy in both the areas of developing
technology support systems and in economic and regulatory reform.
D.    Technology Support Systems
2.35   In the 1980s, Mauritius built up export-orientated manufacturing based on relatively cheap labor
that allowed the country to attract foreign investors, create a core of dynamic local entrepreneurs and
reach full employment. This phase of industrialization, with the exception of the sugar industry, involved
simple skills and technology, with little requirement for technology support systems.
2.36   Recently, in response to international market pressures, larger Mauritian textile manufacturers
have been able to enhance their capacity to compete through the upgrading of activities amenable to
mechanization, such as knitting. However, in upgrading production structures Mauritians soon found that
it is no longer just access to labor and the acquisition of machinery that are important, but a third element
- Inow-how - is becoming critical in determining competitiveness. This third element demands a strong
body of expertise and support in three key areas. First, systems need to be developed to ensure that
enterprises have the know how to achieve the quality and prescribed standards of products and processes
that they are diversifying or upgrading into (quality services). Second, systems also need to be developed
to ensure that factors of production are efficiently used in achieving these quality standards (productivity
services). Finally, capacities need to be developed on how best to adapt technologies to the local
environment and to find new ways of improving product quality and design (technology effort and design
services). It is therefore not surprising that Mauritius, faced with growing international competition and
labor shortages in the EPZ, is witnessing increasing demand for technology support services in all these
areas.
2.37   In the process of enhancing competitiveness across sectors and in the development of technology
support systems, information technology (IT) has a growing and crucial role. Responsiveness to customer
needs through customized design, efficient distribution networks and after sales service, has now taken
center stage in determining industrial competitiveness. As a result, manufacturing and services have
become independent. In this regard local firms are increasingly demanding better access to international
and local service providers through high quality communications systems. To this end key local services
such as banking and finance, telecommunications and transport - including public sector services, such
as customs - all need to improve performance in line with industrial upgrading. In all these areas the
effective application of IT is central to lowering costs, and enhancing quality and quick response.



- 12 -
Productivity
2.38   In the first part of Mauritius' textile boom, between 1983 and 1986, labor productivity (defined
as value-added per worker) is estimated to have fallen by 10 percent in real terms, as employment in the
EPZ tripled from 23,000 to 74,000, and the number of establishments shot up from 146 to 408.
Productivity has since rebounded, and as of the end of 1992 it stood 16 percent higher than what it was
in 1983. This recent improvement can be ascribed to: (i) a 'migration' effect, with many inefficient firms
going bankrupt and their labor being absorbed by more efficient producers; and (ii) a "learning curve"
effect, as enterprises themselves achieved greater technological and managerial efficiency. Although a
21 percent increase in productivity between 1988 and 1991 (4.9 percent per annum) was commendable,
this performance was not enough to offset recent rises in labor costs, which witnessed a 29 percent
increase between 1988 and 1991 (8.5 percent per annum). Therefore, taking productivity (defined as
variations in value-added per worker in constant 1992 US dollars) over labor cost (defined as variations
in labor costs in constant 1992 US dollar terms) as an indication of competitiveness, Mauritius producers
have become less competitive in world markets in recent years, which is also reflected by the declining
value-added content in exports, and falling returns on capital for EPZ companies (see Table 2.1).
2.39   Competitiveness and productivityproblems stem from labor shortages, inadequate human resource
management and a lack of awareness on the part of both management and labor of the importance of
productivity to future growth. Labor shortages and inadequate human resource management have given
rise to high labor turnover, high absenteeism and strained industrial relations economy-wide, which is
a major deterrent to new foreign investment and impedes capacity expansion by existing firms. Although
these difficulties are raising awareness about the importance of productivity improvements, the tools for
measuring productivity are completely new to Mauritius. Information on productivity and competitiveness
trends, which are important to public and private sector decision making, is extremely limited. While the
Central Statistical Office (CSO) annually provides a labor productivity index, unit labor cost and value-
added per employee indices at the sector and subsector levels, along with measures of competitiveness,
are not calculated and published on a systematic basis. In the private sector, only a few companies
measure productivity, and in the absence of sub-sector indices they find it difficult to compare themselves
with enterprises with similar operations to themselves. The Mauritius Employers' Federation (MEF) has
just launched an International Labor Organization program to promote productivity measurement at the
company level, and this should be complemented by an initiative to improve the development and use of
national and sectoral productivity and competitiveness indices.
2.40   The newly formed National Pay and Productivity Council (NPPC), whose terms of reference are
currently being defined, will in addition have the important task of raising productivity awareness in both
the public and private sectors, through promotion and information campaigns. These campaigns will also
have to underline the importance of developing human resource systems which encourage labor to identify
more closely with the goals of a production unit, if productivity is to increase significantly at the
enterprise level.
2.41   Apart from improving general awareness on the importance of productivity and human resource
management, productivity levels in EPZ firms can be boosted through the improved technology
application. Most local firms are not aware of best international practices, and consequently are not fully
conscious of the magnitude of benefits that could be gained from applying these procedures to their
production and management processes. Preliminary consulting work instigated by Export Processing
Zone Development Authority (EPZDA) and sector work carried out for the Bank, indicate that Mauritian
manufacturers could achieve quick productivity gains through relatively minor improvements in



- 13 -
production processes (work-flow organization, quality control, etc.) and labor relations. At the same time
less generic solutions could also significantly improve productivity if expertise were available to respond
to individual enterprise requirements. Furthermore, interest in productivity improvements is not restricted
to the textiles/garments sector. An International Executive Service Corps (IESC) program, which is
prohibited from funding textile projects, has demonstrated that there is demand for such services in
sectors ranging from horticulture to printing to hydroponics.
Table 2.1: Indicators of International Competitiveness in the EPZ (1983-1992)
valuo.edt.  41.9   40.2         40.6  -37.6    3 .4       82    381 
*,:(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                   *   ': .   . '- ..........     :.:-:: ....
Wo        08.     44        9.     SZ      49.3    49      S2      $.2      34     aA
Value-.44e4~.4$ 
- - . .... - - ... , . .. , . , ... . . .. - . ,  . - . .... - . ... . . . .............. .......... ............................
W:--- i::  2041: -- 18.i9: 20.1   19.7    19.4    19.1 : 9.$ -8.    1  --: 
Exports{%
Vatu*--id4     18-4.  :1671:  1600  --1913    241$   :2$36    29   --            X
Workei (USS>
-''ual   i - 0   X86  '93    2003    1191 .126                   12 6l-          1 i  749
.., }EE     .   .   .   ...   ....:.                       - ,-. -    -:
Worker.(USI>
Pro4w~~~tivity  100  93  88   9~~~~~0  103     101    1AIX ~          12       1
LaborCost  100    ~~~~91   91     98      :106   1.:05'    111     12    15
-Campeti-   - li 100    102      97      92      97       96      94  -         9Q
fivenes
0       -        - S -           16      33.      4       60      64       S
--Xi*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ........                                                  ..     -.-     :. :.
(sS
Data for value-added and labor costs per worker are in current dollar terms.
Productivity Index (base 1983): variation in value-added per worker, constant 1992 US dollars.
Labor Cost Index (base 1983): variation in labor costs, constant 1992 US dollars.
Competitiveness Index: Productivity Index/Labor Cost Index (reciprocal of unit labor cost index).
n.a.: not available
Source: Export Processing Zone, 4th Quarter 1991 and Digest of Industrial Statistics, Central Statistical Office.



- 14 -
2.42   Local private sector delivery of productivity services is virtually non-existent, though some
production managers reportedly undertake sporadic consulting work. Local accounting firms largely
restrict their activities to core services in audit, accounts, economic studies, data processing, human
resources development and marketing. However, through their international connections, these local firms
do have access to specialized production and management expertise. Nevertheless, industry's lack of
experience in using such expertise and consequent lack of appreciation of the benefits that accrue, are a
significant barrier to the growth of private sector services in this field.
2.43   While the initial work by EPZDA  has generated strong interest among garment/textile
manufacturers, much remains to be done to sensitize the productive sector to benefits that could arise
from improved management and production methods. Moreover, a technology support system needs to
be developed which facilitates access to productivity services, while simultaneously encouraging the
private sector and, wherever possible, domestic delivery of these services. A cost sharing fund, widely
used in other countries to develop markets in specialized services, would be an appropriate instrument
for this purpose (see Box 2.3 and Annex 8).
Quality
2.44   Mauritian exporters have considerable potential for increasing value-added by developing
higher-quality products and services that command higher unit prices in developed markets. The quality
of a product or service is determined by either formal and/or informal standards defining its attributes.
Ensuring achievement of these standards (both formal and informal) requires ready access to credible
testing laboratories with equipment that is periodically calibrated to high precision measurement
(metrology) standards. Increasingly customers require that products demonstrate conformance to formal
standards or regulations and that conformance be certified by an independent third-party certification
body. Sophisticated buyers are requiring not only product certification, but certification of the quality
system for the production process and/or certification of personnel whose skills (e.g., welders) are critical
to the process. All these elements combined-metrology, standards, testing, and quality - constitute the
MSTQ infrastructure. Together with an up-to-date database of relevant international standards and the
standards of principal trading partners, the MSTQ infrastructure is critical to all export-oriented industries
(see box 2.4 for a definition of MSTQ).
2.45   Until the early 1990s demands on the MSTQ  infrastructure were relatively light, with
agents/buyers providing the required quality standards to textile and garment enterprises and, where
necessary, a few specialist services to ensure that these informal standards could be met. The International
Wool Secretariat (IWS) also provided quality inspection for their Woolmark label. Moreover Government
has never pursued a policy of enforcing standards, as a way of raising product quality. The Mauritius
Standards Bureau (MSB) has written approximately 90 standards to date, of which only a few are
obligatory either for health or safety reasons. Legal metrology for weight, length and volume is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Trade and Shipping, while MSB is responsible for industrial metrology,
providing basic calibration services in most areas, but notably not in temperature. In the 1980s, with
industrialization predominantly in the labor-intensive garments/textile sectors, this limited provision of
MSTQ infrastructure was a reflection of industry's limited requirement to meet quality standards and,
with a few significant exceptions, most Mauritian firms to this day have rudimentary quality assurance
procedures.



- 15 -
Box 2.3: Cost Sharig SchemeS Around thg WEorld
The cost sharing or matching grant concept has been used in a number of different envionmstsetve',
a range of objectives. Indications on impact so far are very encouraging (See Annex 8). The cPonto shows"
great promise as a means of stimulating specific firm-level actions. In the industrialized market econories and
i the NIFs, the matching grant concept is widely used.,
For example, the Economic Development Board in Singapore provides SO' pert grant. for pirduct
development purposes. Tlle Singapore Export Development Board provides grants to SMEs but if the- giantsi
over US$200,000, these have to be repaid if their use results in export success. In the Umted Kingdom  many:
of the Department of Trade and Industry's (D)TI) previously intemally provided. support services. are now. .
fuinded on a matching grant basis. Tbe DTIs 'Consultancy lnitiative" was launched in 1988, t   cog
firms with fewer than 400 employees to make greater use of management consultants. An evaluai  ia 19.1
showed that, with 21,200 projects assisted, 90 percent of clients considered that they had received. vue 'for
money; 76 percent intended to implement the consultants' recommendations;- and 74 percent itended.'to use-'
ronsultants again, at full arket prices.  Israel's official trade promotion  ganization has. a.  Markitig.
Center' which provides 50150 grants for help with entering European markets, and Austra& in`As-la jli
long provided its Export Markt Development Grants to exporters.
Th fi-st known scheme in a developing country, fned bw a de          t
parlel funds in a South Asian country, an 'Export Marketing Fund' and the *Prodtiviy'und, wbich
formed components of a World Bank 'Industrial Export Project - Engineering Products  ,Ywhich.9ated..
operations in 1986. Following the success of these schemes, expanded matching gtant ischems were included..
in a follow-on r Industrial Exports Project', which started in 1989. Coverage was extended from engineeinig
products to all manufactured exports.
The next matching grant scheme in a developing country, with aid support, was in another:South-East
Asin Country, under a World Bank 'Export Development Project', which started in 1987.-' Becseaf the.
lack of a suitable existing institution to administer the scheme, a new institution, an 'Export: Suppr B6ord`-.'
-(ESB),. was set up on a three-year trial basis for the duration of the project After a ,vey slow stat tX ESB
has had a substantial impact on the transformation of many local firms into entities that could 'ompeten. the.
inetmtional market, The Board still exists but in hindsight, it was probbly  mista.    to set u a pme
institution to rn the scheme as its aim was simply to stimulate a market in consultancy services.
As part of a World Bank 'Industrial and Trade Sector Adjustment Low  to .a East African countr  ..
1992, an "Exporter Assistance Scheme' started operations with a matching grant scheme to expand expors,'
again on a 50/50 cost-sharing basis. A new feature was that this scheme-was administritod un.de..t.rm..
management ontact by a speciabst management consultancy.firm.  arly r.epor indicate: t  t''appoah is W  .
working well. The two-man team has reportedly generated. 100g    applicos wi .i twe.lve     .........
*.ie of an env iome't of politicalinstability and in spit of rect etback '   pess  fopngtb
economy. A US$40 milLion World Bank-supported export scheme designed in a South Amerian    nr ha
just been negotiated, and is expected to start operations lateriml   ':.- 14.''              ':
2.46   In the face of growing international competition, Mauritian enterprises are coming under
increasing pressure to upgrade the quality of their products and/or to demonstrate attainment of quality
standards to maintain or capture export markets. As a result, demand for MSTQ services in Mauritius



- 16 -
is growing fast, particularly for ISO 9000 quality management standards. The ISO 9000 series are
recognized worldwide and apply to virtually all production processes and services. In apparel assembly,
.... ..  ......  ...  . ........... , ,..........................
............~~,                                     ,,,,,,         ....,,   .,      -. . ..
'-D:' ... i '.-id,w .............. , w ......... .w. ..... :-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............  X:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..... ..._- R    r,,,a,fi
|i-ls~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "7"i '  S..S.--..t                                         X
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ...-..    .. . ... . ..... . - -S- ii        
MetroloXy< testing, stan dards  and quality (MSTQ) aervines toveR ao  H range of activit   whichhedlpfcrmns
Metrology refrrs to the ma~mrement systemssed in a    ntry,  andincmet-  tea.c of
.'.,','= ,...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X::w.. ....
W0V.             R,,                                 . ,       f.
...............,                                *   i   -   i               --
'' w ''R ,.., R'-    ""'"""'RR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i t M bexe:
prunary standards end tl* calrati on of'  ^snt   t e              t '' M "togy 's  ually           nto legal
=etrology and aclentiftc/induatrial metrology. The lmrpose of legal flztrology is to ensure that...mmer.i.l
tmwaco_ e   s
(weight) and legth. Legl metroo~y invoves theregular nspectin of meaurementequipmen  used i
comriltascto.  swl  sth   eivto   fimotr  n   rdces                                  es       u   qipmn.,
ScintfI/Idutril  etolgyinolvs heliralo  (bse o  pimr-insroogc..........f qe~zen
.se . .o rdcino  etn,t   nueta  twsu    cuaey    onre w......                           ouwr-ete
manfacurng  ecor ee  god  etrloica srviesto  na.e.i.m...tet..odct..n  mintin...i~
standrds, ecaus it i usualy inonvenent nd ezeosiv to udertaD calbratin oveseas
S..a.......e..sreelad etn  mtos a   elastesecfctowta   us  emt
for  prduct a rocw~ Rsysem  w eninsituion o b  cetifld.   any  ounrie speifyther ow  prduc
standards, wi~~~~~..... .eat ..o. local . ak ..... .Wad  te  oniins    oeer  nerainl  sk
1:3 dominated by product etmndards pertaining in Europe, ?4ortti America........ ..m - .n..ddit....to.products.
etandatls a  alsoestabishedto defne coditios ~r  onn~civityand ineoperbilit, pero"manb aii
safety, mud quality syatew*~~~~~~~~~~ Standards ca  al........ -p to... i.st.. to..  as . .th....se .....r. labraorycreit&tion
.........   ves.... h attainfita         -: tadrd   nds~       atius,*i4cheks`hei mitenneoe
tims~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Sa Te..n .n tu .. .s                                    ....ed......g srie  t  airaetsteupen,ad  ysadad 
testing methods to ensure~~~~~~~. that t .a ....    r   ennfil   etnscuca  o  nyt  nsr  htpout
...et.the reurmnso   anfcuesadcstmr,btas  orsft  n   nionetlpoeUn
Quality Manageme*  I ytneictisss h   nanz1os srcue  re...s.ilii.s prcdC,
prcese,  .n eore  o           .h    .    .......... and.. coto.o.ultyi.elt..o..k css,an   eft.A
effecive  ualiy mangemet sytem stisfes cstomr nees a~  expctatins.wile.ervin  to  rotet th
enepies  trta  Qaiyi   eaue   tvrossae ....y..  VppWo ....                tes...n....a..y..r.emnt
am acheved ut onlyby Idrati Ving th  causs of dfects,but aso by  ncremetallyImXrovng proedW.e
prt~ceass and *her 1~ietiona, ncludingdesigo.The I$(~9000 seies of qality mnag1.e.ts...e..tandar.
......... ..m  stn.d   mn   h    ery1,0    tnad    e   yteItraInlOgnzto    o



- 17 -
as in other industries, buyers faced with the choice of using suppliers or sub-contractors from different
countries with similar costs are likely to choose certified users of ISO 9000, because this standard
requires that a demonstrably effective quality system is in place. Therefore, ISO 9000 standards are
becoming important determinants of trade in OECD markets, particularly in Europe, where the EEC has
has recommended that firms adopt it on a voluntary basis. Buyers of Mauritian products are increasingly
encouraging their suppliers to begin the process of implementing ISO 9000 procedures and organized
industry (Mauritius Export Processing Zone Association [MEPZA], and the Industrial and Vocational
Training Board [IVTB]) have responded by promoting awareness and training in quality management
in collaboration with MSB and the IVTB.
2.47   The requirement to meet export standards has put increasing pressures on the whole MSTQ
infrastructure. This has resulted in some growth of private sector services, both foreign and local, in
testing, quality assurance and consultancy, and a number of public sector initiatives to upgrade MSTQ
infrastructure. To assist firms to improve total quality management (TQM) and attain ISO 9000 standards,
the Government needs to develop a more concerted strategy to promote the provision of related training
and consulting services and ensure the availability of qualified assessors. In this regard, the private sector
should be encouraged to provide most of these services. The Government does, however, have to ensure
that a competitive environment, with a transparent regulatory framework, exist in the delivery of MSTQ
services. Furthermore Government needs to take a lead in the provision of TQM and ISO 9000 assessor
training, and in upgrading the necessary testing and metrology infrastructure required in both the delivery
and use of private sector MSTQ services, and in developing an independent laboratory accreditation
scheme. In this context, a comprehensive strategy defining the relative roles of the private and public
sectors for MSTQ services has been developed in the preparation of this project.
Information Technology
2.48   There is growing awareness in Mauritius that international competitiveness will crucially depend
on successful adoption and diffusion of information technology (MI). Many key sectors of the economy,
e.g., textiles, tourism, and financial services, need to develop IT as a tool for achieving quick response,
just-in-time management and other modern business practices that are becoming common place world
wide. In recognition of the importance of IT, a number of institutions have been established in recent
years to promote its use in both public and private sectors. The National Computer Board (NCB) has
undertaken several surveys of IT use in various sectors of the economy and has coordinated the
formulation of a national IT manpower development strategy. The Central Informatics Bureau (CIB) and
the Ministry of Finance have completed a draft IT masterplan for computerization in the civil service.
Two state-owned companies, State Informatics Limited (SIL) and the State Informatics Training Center
SITRAC), have been established to service computer applications and training needs, largely for the
public sector.
2.49   Notwithstanding these efforts, IT use remains limited in both public and private sectors,
particularly in comparison to newly industrializing economies (NIEs) in East Asia. Much attention is now
being paid to the experience of countries such as Singapore, where the penetration of IT has dramatically
grown in all sectors within a span of less than a decade. Two basic constraints to IT use in Mauritius
are the limited availability of high quality telecommunications services and the shortages of skilled
manpower. In addition, there is still a limited awareness among senior public and private sector
executives of the strategic opportunities and implications of IT use. There is an inadequate supply of IT-
related services, such as network management, systems integration, strategic planning, and information



- 18 -
management. The provision of these services will crucially depend on the ability of Mauritian firms to
form strategic alliances with foreign firms and to insure effective transfer of technology from abroad.
2.50   Drawing on the examples of Singapore and a number of other countries, steps are now being
taken to prepare for increased awareness of IT; to improve delivery of key public services to the private
sector through the phased introduction of an Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) network to process trade
documents; and to develop open standards to ensure interconnectivity of systems acquired by public and
private sectors.
Technology Intelligence
2.51   To date foreign investment and the suppliers of machinery are the chief sources of technology
intelligence, but over time equipment fairs have become another important source of information.
MEDIA, the public export and investment promotion organization, has recently launched its Trade
Information Center which provides a modern library and computerized trade information systems. In
promoting foreign investment MEDIA has recently adopted a new strategy which targets specific sub-
sectors of industry, which, given their limited resources, is probably a justifiable strategy at this stage
of Mauritius's development. However, there is a limit to which a public agency can be effective in
targeting very specific industrial groups. Issues of confidentiality preclude group investment promotion
from being a useful instrument of technology acquisition at the individual company level.
2.52   A mechanism which encourages individual enterprises to research and identify alternative
production techniques and new technologies through joint venture arrangements, royalty agreements, or
simple exposure tours, would be an important complementary initiative to classical investment promotion.
'While access to technology intelligence is not a primary constraint in Mauritius, what is lacking is know-
how to apply this intelligence in the work place. Services and infrastructure relating to productivity,
quality, information technology, and design need to be built up, as Mauritius's productive capacity
becomes more sophisticated. This shift to greater demand for "know-how services' to complement
technology, market and investment intelligence is a typical requirement of all newly industrialized
countries experiencing a switch in their comparative advantage from cheap labor to quality and quick
response.
2.53   Cumbersome investment authorization procedures that hamper new foreign investment, an
extremely important source of technology intelligence, need to be reformulated (see section E). It is also
apparent that demand for improved technology intelligence is stronger in the EPZ than in the non-EPZ
sector, reflecting the relative incentive structures of these sectors, and the need to redouble efforts to
reform the business environment into a unified and transparent framework that encourages
competitiveness, a clear objective of the 1992-94 National Development Plan.
Technology Effort
2.54   While Mauritius has considerable research expertise in the agricultural sector, particularly in
sugar production and processing, because of economies of scale, there is virtually no formal industrial
R&D in Mauritius. Some of the large Mauritian textile groups carry out R&D activities on an ad hoc
basis, mostly to adapt foreign technologies to local conditions. This is an appropriate orientation given
Mauritius's relatively small economy. Recently the Mauritius Research Council (MRC) was set up to
coordinate research funding and influence the direction and quality of projects. While the concept is
sound, there is little sign of unmet demand for industrial R&D, and certainly no immediate requirement



- 19 -
for sponsoring any public R&D institution. Tax relief is also available to encourage finns to undertake
R&D in-house, but it is poorly publicized.
2.55   At an institutional level little additional support appears warranted over and above present
government initiatives. Mauritius's focus in the immediate future is to encourage the development of in-
firm capacities to adapt technologies to the local enviromment and to find new ways of improving the
quality and design of products and services. To this end, a Science and Technology Strategy is currently
being formulated under the aegis of the MRC. Other initiatives - which do not run the risk of creating
expensive, supply-driven structures (such as a R&D institute) with limited potential to benefit the
economy in Mauritius - are also important in promoting technological effort. These include
encouragement for firms to sponsor R&D training for their staff within Mauritius or (more probably),
overseas, and efforts to improve collaboration between industry and the University of Mauritius.
Design
2.56   The experience of Asian NIEs shows that developing local design capabilities can play an
important role in helping firms increase value-added and sustain competitiveness despite high labor costs.
Over the span of a decade or so, both Hong Kong and Singapore have succeeded in developing local
brand names, and are now recognized as distinctive and innovative design centers. In targeting this
objective Mauritius has, however, a long learning curve to climb, the foundations for which are being
laid in some parts of the private sector.
2.57   Currently, most Mauritian firms receive their designs from their customers, principals or parent
companies. However, a few local manufacturers have their own capability, either in-house, or through
contracts with local designers. In fostering design capabilities Mauritian manufactures should initially
develop their ability to interpret efficiently and creatively the patterns provided by their overseas (mostly
European) customers. Over time, this will build the confidence of foreign buyers and encourage them to
delocalize a growing part of the design process. Only in the medium- to longer-term is it expected that
a market for distinctive Mauritian designs will develop. To stimulate design capabilities within Mauritius,
initiatives should therefore initially focus on improved access to foreign expertise and on the technical
aspects of design (particularly the marking, grading and cutting of fabrics in the textile industry) for
which there is a strong demand. EPZDA, at the sector level, is pursuing a project in this regard, which
could be supported and complemented by other firm-based initiatives to gain better access to expertise
and training.
Intellectual Property Protection
2.58   From the point of view of technology acquisition the forms of intellectual property protection that
matter most are patents and copyright. Patents in Mauritius are governed by the Patent Act of 1875 and
the Patents (Amendment) Act of 1983. The principal shortcoming in this legislation is that it cannot
utilize international patent systems in protecting intellectual property domestically. Government has
recognized this problem and, with the support of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO),
has drafted new legislation, covering both patents and trademarks, which essentially will ensure that any
persons holding a foreign patent covered by the African Intellectual Property Organization (AIPO)
Protocol will automatically be covered in Mauritius. Copyright protection is covered by the Copyright
Act of 1986. It covers any work, whether 'artistic, literary, or scientific" which is both original and
"written down, recorded, or otherwise reduced to any material form", which is generally accepted to
cover computer software. The act established the Mauritius Society of Authors (MASA), with exclusive



- 20 -
rights to collect copyright fees on behalf of copyright holders. MASA, which started operation in 1989,
has only received one complaint from a software copyright holder. This complaint appears to have been
resolved out of court following intervention by MASA. A test case on music piracy is due to be heard
in early 1994. Until this test case and other test cases related to software piracy take place, investor
confidence in the existing legislation will be difficult to gauge. MASA has signed reciprocal agreements
with forty similar copyright societies abroad, and Mauritius has ratified the Universal Copyright
Convention, administered by UNESCO, and the Bern Convention, administered by WIPO.
E.    Economic and Regulatory Reform Issues
2.59   Broadly speaking, in the 1980s two distinct incentive and regulatory frameworks were developed.
The first one was an outward-orientated export sector, subject to full international competition, while
benefitting from a wide range of incentives, including directed credit and credit subsidies, fiscal incentives
and less stringent labor market regulations than those applied outside non-export industries and services.
The second framework, in contrast, amounted to a domestically-orientated sector, shielded from
international competition by high import barriers but subject to greater control (labor and price controls),
and discriminated against in terms of fiscal incentives and access to credit.
2.60   Now that Mauritius has reached full employment, there has been a shift in policy orientation to
break down the barriers between these sectors (see para. 2.8). A number of measures have already been
implemented or are in the process of being implemented to achieve the goal of a unified and transparent
regulatory environment. A large degree of financial liberalization has taken place with the removal of
credit ceilings and fixed interest rates. Some industrial investment incentives have been consolidated under
one act in tandem with revisions to the tax system to give greater prominence to performance-based tax
incentives. Initial steps have also been taken to harmonize labor regulations across sectors. However, the
investment incentive framework remains highly fragmented and there are still significant distortions in
product and factor markets. Further revision of the tax system, in tandem with tariff reform and other
initiatives to improve the incentive framework, is therefore the subject of ongoing discussions with
Government (see para. 2.8).
2.61   As part of these efforts to liberalize the economy and create a private sector friendly
environment, this project will support regulatory reform in investment authorization (technology
acquisition) and initiatives to improve flexibility in factor markets.
Foreign Investment and Investment Authorization
2.62   Foreign investment is an extremely important method of technology acquisition for developing
countries. The experience of Singapore shows that for small countries like Mauritius with brief industrial
experience and limited technological capability, foreign investment can be an effective instrument of
accelerated technology transfer and can allow a country to leapfrog stages of technological development.
Foreign direct investment (FDI) played an important role in the development of the EPZ. By one
estimate, foreign enterprises presently control about 45 percent of the EPZ sector, among which 15
percent is through fully-owned subsidiaries, and 30 percent through joint-ventures with Mauritian
nationals.
2.63   Foreign investment is concentrated in the knitwear and apparel industries, and is dominated by
entrepreneurs from Hong Kong and, to a lesser extent, France and Taiwan. Foreign entrepreneurs were



- 21 -
attracted by preferential access to the US and EEC market; by the availability of literate, bilingual and
relatively inexpensive labor; by economic and political stability; and by a reasonably conducive business
environment. Hong Kong manufacturers have typically followed a general strategy to relocate abroad
labor-intensive activities, particularly those affected by the US quota, while keeping in Hong Kong the
more skill-intensive, high value-added productions, as well as the design and linkage capabilities. Over
the last few years, some of these groups have reduced their operations in Mauritius, and have relocated
to labor-surplus areas, such as the Caribbean islands which offer privileged access to the US market
through the Caribbean Basin Initiative.
2.64   A summary analysis of investment in the EPZ over 1990-1992 reveals that new investment
authorizations predominated in the textiles and garments sector, with only modest levels of investment
in electric and products. New investment authorizations in flowers, food, informatics, jewelry, toys,
optical goods, wood and paper products and leather products and footwear only accounted for a small
proportion of total EPZ investment. Most investments were in the form of joint ventures, with an
insignificant amount of the new investment being fully foreign-owned. In textiles and garments, it was
reported that these investment authorizations were largely for expansion and upgrading existing projects,
and, with the notable exception of a large state of the art weaving plant in the late 1980s, there was little
additional foreign investment in new start-up projects.
2.65   With the slowdown of new foreign investors in the EPZ and in an effort to diversify export
growth in 1991, the Government extended EPZ-type incentives to "Pioneer Status Enterprises' which
could sell on both the local and external markets. The rationale for this scheme was that certain new
export industries or export support industries needed a domestic base from which to develop exports.
In the first two years of its existence, investment in this area has been modest, with approximately US$8
million authorized. Foreign or joint venture participation comprised 10 of the 25 projects approved,
which constituted half of the total value of investment authorized for Pioneer Status Enterprises. It is
interesting to note that only two of these projects were totally foreign-owned. The sources of foreign
investment for this new investment certificate were mainly France, Switzerland and India. The largest
areas of investment were in the electrical, electronic and light engineering sector and in plastic resins,
indicating modest investor interest in the electronics and electronic support industries. To date printing,
chemicals, watches/clock components, informatics and jewelry have attracted low levels of investment.
2.66   One of the factors that hinders both new foreign and domestic investments are difficulties
encountered in the investment authorization process. Investors must follow cumbersome procedures to
obtain approval for EPZ status and the various licenses required before starting operations in Mauritius.
For a foreign investor, as many as 24 different applications and authorizations must be cleared before a
new project can become operational. Domestic investors and existing operators in the EPZ face similar
obstacles to new investment. For example, if an EPZ operator wishes to change his/her product line and
requires new types of imports not previously authorized under his/her original EPZ certificate, he/she
is required to reapply to the authorities to receive authorization for the new imports and explain the
reasons behind the expansion, diversification or rationalization of his/her operations. Significant problems
are also encountered in getting residence and work permits. The industrial investment authorization
processes should be restructured by more clearly defining the investment authorization criteria and by
streamlining core procedures.
2.67   In 1990, the Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology established a One-Stop-Shop to assist
foreign investors in obtaining all necessary clearances. Since the underlying procedures imposed by the
various ministries involved have not been simplified, it still takes three to six months for foreign investors



- 22 -
to obtain all the necessary clearances, as compared to two to six weeks in competitor countries. While
a number of the steps involved are standard procedures that would be followed anywhere in the world,
such as an application for a building permit, other procedures could be streamlined to promote actively
foreign investment, in line with the practices followed by Singapore or Hong Kong. Moreover, reform
of industrial investment authorization needs to take place in the context of changing investment patterns
and broader investment authorization initiatives in Mauritius. These include recent measures to encourage
greater foreign investment in Mauritius through the establishment of the Mauritius Country Fund and to
promote greater investment from Mauritius through the liberalization of regulations pertaining to capital
outflows.
Retirement Savings Systems
2.68   As indicated in paragraph 2.28 mobilization of long-term savings is key to facilitating investment
in more capital-intensive industries. Major sources of long-term resources are the pension funds and social
security institutions. Like most countries, Mauritius operates three separate retirement savings systems -
one each for the civil service, the parastatal bodies, and the private sector. In addition, a budget-based
social security system exists to cater for the old and needy, and indigent. The National Pensions Fund
(NPF) is designed to cover all private sector employees through a contributory program based on earnings
up to a set ceiling. NPF participants earn 'points" in respect of their contributions which determine their
entitlement at retirement. An employee whose annual salary each year approximates the maximum
contribution ceiling throughout 40 years of a working lifetime (i.e. from age 20 to 60) would receive
from the NPF a retirement pension that approximates one third of his/her final salary. (Private employer
retirement plans and personal retirement savings plans provide benefits over and above those available
through NPF). Civil servants and parastatal workers are specifically excluded from the NPF. The Civil
Service Pension Plan is a non-contributory scheme, with the participant's pension set at two percent of
his/her final salary for each year of service, subject to a maximum of two-thirds of final salary. The
Parastatals Pension Plan provides identical benefits, but is funded through employer contribution.
2.69   The structure of the public retirement savings system presents three major problems: (i) lack of
"portability" of pension benefits acts as a disincentive to the mobility of labor (especially from the public
to the private sector); (ii) the absence of employee contribution in the civil service plan, which is simply
budget-based, does not encourage the mobilization of long-term savings from a sizeable proportion of the
population (the civil service accounts for 13 percent of total employment); and, (iii) the long-term
financial sustainability of the budget-based civil service pension system is questionable given the relative
ageing of the population. With regard to the portability of public sector pensions, public sector
employees suffer a double loss if they leave the sector early (current vesting requirement is 15 years).
Not only do they forfeit their pension benefits which on aggregate are more generous than those offered
by the NPF, but they find themselves with fewer points than their private sector colleagues because of
several years of non-participation. This situation, among other reasons, gives rise to low outward labor
mobility from the public to the private sector, in a period when access to labor is a key constraint to
growth in export industries. Portability of pensions could be enhanced by reducing the vesting
requirement to five years and developing a more uniform national retirement savings system across the
public and private sectors.
2.70   The interlinked problems of financial sustainability and lack of mobilization of long-term savings
in the civil service pension plan, would also be resolved if a more uniform system for retirement savings
could be developed nationally. The present pension plan for civil servants is rather generous, in terms
of the ratio of initial pensions to final pay, the age at retirement, and the fact that civil servants make no



- 23 -
contributions. At the same time the accruing liability that is developing in respect to this plan is not being
accounted for. Each year the Civil Service Pension Plan charges through the budget only the amount of
pension benefits it expects to pay out in that year. It does not appear that any attempt has been made to
determine the actuarial deficit represented by unfunded pension plan benefits for civil servants into the
future. Currently the pension benefits represent 4.8 percent of total budget expenditures, and given the
ageing population the budgetary burden is expected to rise steeply in the medium term. Efforts to convert
this budgetary burden into long-term savings need to be supported to ensure the financial sustainability
of the public retirement savings system and to enhance flexibility in labor markets.
F.    Human Capital
2.71   The Mauritian educational system served the island well through the 1980s. Quasi-universal
primary education equipped labor with the basic literacy and numeracy skills required for EPZ-based,
low-technology industrialization. In 1991, 54 percent of the labor force had an educational level
equivalent to primary school or lower. This low educational profile was sufficient for workers engaged
in sugar production and, within the EPZ, to master the rudimentary technologies involved in entry-level
garment manufacturing. However, the current human capital situation of Mauritius is not compatible with
the nation's economic ambitions.
2.72   To remain competitive, Mauritius needs able and trainable workers across the board, not just in
professional and technical occupations. At best, this is a slow process because it takes many years for
new entrants to have a significant impact on the composition of the stock of human capital. As many as
37 percent in the younger generation do not go beyond primary school. Less than 8 percent pass the
higher school certificate. Unless the Government assigns priority to improving the education of new
entrants to the labor force, it is unlikely that Mauritius can achieve the vision of technology-based
development and catch up with information technology by the turn of the century. In this respect, it is
worth noting that the share of resources devoted to education has actually fallen over the last decade,
from 5.1 percent of GDP in 1980 to 3.3 percent in 1991.
2.73   Human capital is also an immediate factor of international competitiveness. In China, wages in
garment manufacturing averaged US$0.25 per man-hour in 1991, against US$1.28 in the Mauritian EPZ,
(and US$1.69 in the economy as a whole). This huge difference can hardly be justified by higher
productivity or educational levels. Hong Kong investors report that the productivity of labor in the
Mauritian EPZ is only 60 percent of China's garment export manufacturing sector. Secondary enrollment
in China as a whole (48 percent, including rural areas) is almost on par with that of Mauritius (52
percent). In terms of secondary enrollment, Mauritius does not compare favorably either with lower
income island-states such as Sri Lanka and Jamaica.
2.74   With regard to training, because of tight employment markets and rapid labor turnover, EPZ
firms are generally reluctant to invest in training their staff beyond the minimum amount needed to do
the job, since trained workers are likely to be poached by competitors. As a result, firms tend to invest
less in training than would be desirable for the economy as a whole. Recognizing this issue, the
Government established an Industrial and Vocational Training Board (IVTB) in 1989 to promote
industrial, commercial and vocational training and undertake its own training programs.
2.75   The main instrument for the promotion of employer-based training is the levy/grant scheme
created in 1989 under the umbrella of the IVTB. Enterprises pay a one percent levy on payroll, and 75



- 24 -
percent of approved training costs can be reimbursed. The scheme has been subjected to some criticisms.
Training curricula even for in-house training have to be approved by IVTB, often resulting in a lengthy
process. Although training costs are refundable, the cost of training needs analysis is not. Firms
reportedly send their staff for ad hoc training to recoup the levy, rather than in response to a systematic
assessment of their requirements. Reimbursements are said to be slow, particularly for small- to medium-
sized firms. These issues are being addressed in an ongoing Bank-supported project to strengthen IVTB
(Industrial and Vocational Training Project, Loan 9501-MAS).
2.76   With respect to broadening the education base, the recent Bank-supported Education Sector
Development Project (Loan 5927-MAS) focuses on improving secondary school enrollment. These
initiatives to improve technical training and enhance the pool of skills arising from secondary education
constitute important complementary actions to any efforts to improve the acquisition and diffusion of
technology.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives and Scope
3.1    The overall objective of the project is to help enhance export competitiveness, and thereby
prospects for sustainable rapid growth by facilitating private sector access to know-how for improved
productivity, quality, design and response times, as well as diversification of export production. The
strategy is to develop demand-responsive systems to strengthen the skills and technology infrastructure
and services and to encourage private sector provision of these services. To ensure that these initiatives
lead to tangible and early results, the project would also improve the delivery of public sector services
to the private sector and support the implementation of economic and regulatory reforms conducive to
the development of a competitive and technology-friendly environment. Specifically the project will:
(i) fund a technology diffusion scheme to promote the diffusion of good technology practices in the
private sector; (ii) strengthen the Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB) with technical assistance and
equipment and develop a National MSTQ Accreditation Council to improve export quality; (iii) improve
the delivery of public services to the private sector through trade facilitation; (iv) provide technical
assistance to restructure the investment authorization process to encourage technology acquisition, to
review and restructure the retirement savings system to strengthen factor markets and to develop
productivity and competitiveness indicators to improve access to information that will facilitate both
private sector and public sector investment and policy decision processes.
3.2    The scope of the project, which would be supported by the proposed US$7.7 million Loan, is
described in detail below. The project consists of:
(a)  promoting the diffusion of good technology practices through a Technology Diffusion Scheme
(DS) which would share the cost in improving the private sector's access to productivity,
quality, and design services, and to information on new technologies. The scheme is designed
to be demand responsive and promote the private sector delivery of these services, catalyzing the
development of an active market in private technology support systems;
(b)  strengthening the MSTQ (metrology, standards, testing, quality) infrastructure to improve export
quality, through (i) support to the Mauritius Standards Bureau in the establishment of a national
quality system; institutional and management upgrading; the strengthening of complementary



- 25 -
activities in the areas of metrology, testing and information dissemination; and enhancing the
image of the institution in key international fora; and (ii) the development of a National MSTQ
Accreditation Council, whose initial principal functions will be independent laboratory
accreditation;
(c)  trade facilitation through a program to speed up the process of trade documentation clearance,
and streamline critical procedural and operational areas in import and export documentation, with
the aim of eliminating the need to present physically documents to the various organizations
concerned; and
(d)  the implementation of some aspects of economic and regulatory reform outlined in recent sector
work, specifically through the provision of technical assistance to: (i) restructure the investment
authorization process to improve the acquisition of foreign technology; (ii) review and restructure
the retirement savings systems to improve flexibility in factor markets; and (iii) develop
competitiveness and productivity indicators to improve access to information by both the private
and public sectors.
3.3    The project components are described in detail in paras. 3.5 to 3.29 below. The Loan would
finance technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies. The project follows detailed discussions
on sector work - the Technology Strategy for Competitiveness (TSC) - with Government and the private
sector at both the white cover and green cover stages in calendar year 1993. These discussions, including
Bank participation in the August 1993 Industrialization Seminar and the December 1993 IT Seminar, at
which the principal findings of the TSC were presented, resulted in the identification of the above project
components. The project design also draws on the findings of: (i) "Bank Lending for Industrial
Technology Development", the subject of a June 30, 1993, report from the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED); (ii) a World Bank policy research report entitled "The East Asian Miracle -
Economic Growth and Public Policy" of September 26, 1993; and (iii) specifically in the area of IT, "IT
in World Bank Lending", N. Hanna and S. Boyson, Discussion Paper No. 206, 1993. Following
discussions with the Mauritian private and public sectors, an MSTQ (Metrology, Standards, Testing and
Quality) Strategy was finalized during negotiations and adopted by the Standards Council prior to Board
presentation.
B.    Rationale for IBRD Involvement
3.4    The proposed project fits well in the Bank's overall country assistance strategy (Country
Assistance Strategy of May 2, 1994) envisaging a blend of policy advice and carefully targeted lending
operations to help manage Mauritius's transition to the next stage of development. The Government of
Mauritius has requested Bank technical assistance in designing and implementing a strategy to improve
competitiveness and upgrade production capacities. The Bank undertook substantial sector work jointly
with the Mauritians, and the design of this project is based on its findings. Much of the proposed project
draws on successful experiences in other Bank countries, as well as on the successes and failures in
specific lending operations in technology development. Apart from strengthening technology support
systems, improving general and technical education is equally important to developing a strong skills and
technology culture. The Mauritian work force has an average schooling of 6.9 years, which is a major
constraint in the move towards technology-based development. The proposed project, therefore, while
focusing on facilitating the acquisition of technology and know-how in the work place, is designed to
complement ongoing efforts to: (a) broaden technical and vocational training (Industrial and Vocational



- 26 -
Training Project, Loan 9501-MAS), and (b) improve the pool of skills arising from secondary education
(Education Sector Development Project, Loan 5927-MAS). Such complementarity ensures the synergy
between immediate technology acquisition and the development of a broader base of skilled human
capital. The Government, which is highly selective when it comes to borrowing IBRD funds, has
identified the activities to be financed under the proposed project as top priority. The Government values
greatly the cooperation with the Bank in carrying out the sector work that underpins the project, and is
strongly committed to implementing the project.
C.    Project Description
1. Diffusion of Good Technology Practices
3.5    The project will fund on a matching-grant basis private sector access to technology expertise. As
indicated in Section II D, in the face of labor shortages and increased international competition, and
resultant pressures to enhance value-added and productivity, there is growing demand for technology
support services in the areas of productivity, quality and design. Productivity services to improve
efficiency in the use of factors of production. Quality services in the production of higher value-added
products that conform to international quality standards and command higher prices on world markets,
and design services to promote product differentiation and enhance local value-added. There is also
growing demand for information and know-how for the introduction and adaption of new technologies
and techniques, in order to diversify or extend productive capacities.
3.6    Required Support for the Delivery of Technology Services. Demand for technology support
services is currently at both the individual enterprise and sector organization level. The medium to larger
firms are increasingly seeking direct access to expertise principally in the productivity and quality areas.
The growing demand for expertise among members of the Mauritius Chamber of Commerce and Industry
(MCCI), led the Chamber to propose the idea of a cost sharing technology transfer fund in their
recommendations to the 1993/94 national budget. Sector organizations such as EPZDA, MSB, SMIDO
and MEPZA have also either initiated or planned group schemes for utilizing technology support services.
EPZDA, targeting productivity increases is already providing consultancy services on a cost sharing basis
to solve some generic industry wide problems. EPZDA plans to strengthen these services, which, along
with future initiatives in the area of design, will require access to foreign expertise on an ad-hoc basis.
The sector organization has stressed the need to preserve flexibility in the financing of its various
initiatives to ensure they are paced to meet the demands of private sector companies in the EPZ. The
MSB, in the field of quality, is seeking finance for an initiative to provide grants to a group of private
sector enterprises to encourage them to upgrade their total quality management (TQM) in the process of
striving to attain ISO 9000 quality management standards. MEPZA is also seeking finance to expand a
number of its quality training programs. Technology services related to research and development
(R&D)/technology effort and design are in their early stages of development on the island. However,
capacities to adapt foreign technologies to local conditions and for the introduction of new technologies
could be facilitated by promoting local enterprises access to foreign partners through exposure visits of
management and personnel and by encouraging overseas and local training in new technologies. All the
above services can be provided by private foreign and in some cases local expertise.
3.7    Options and Constraints. An active market in all these technology services has not yet
developed in Mauritius, and enterprises face a steep learning curve in targeting the appropriate expertise



- 27 -
and training needed to upgrade their production capabilities. Firms that have already put in place new
productivity systems met with labor resistance, because of inadequate human resource management, which
forced them to rethink their strategy, constituting a significant learning cost. At the same time initial
development of new productivity techniques has already proven to have strong demonstration effects with
other enterprises following the lead of pioneer companies. However the potential benefits accruing from
technology assistance are not fully appreciated by industry, which, in the initial use, finds it difficult to
justify seemingly high fees in advance of experiencing their benefits. The development of an active
technology services market - while probably more critical to the smaller, less internationalized firms
which find it more difficult to establish links over a long distance - is also important to the larger firms,
as it will engender greater competition in the delivery of these services, and consequently lower costs.
On the other hand, given the relatively small size of the Mauritian economy and its relatively recent shift
into more sophisticated production processes, developing heavy public institutions along the lines of the
Hong Kong Productivity Council (HKPC) and the National Productivity Board (NPB) in Singapore would
not be justified at this stage of Mauritius' development. Furthermore, lessons from previous Bank
experience indicates that in providing these services, systems should be created which are demand
responsive and promote, wherever possible, the private sector delivery of these services.
3.8    The Technology Diffusion Scheme (TDS). To offset learning costs in the initial acquisition of
technology services and to promote technology diffusion through the strong demonstration effects that
such acquisition will have, the project will support over a fixed time period the creation of a Technology
Diffusion Scheme, which will fund in the form of grants, and on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with the
private sector, programs involving the acquisition of expertise to: (i) improve productivity; (ii) enhance
product quality; (iii) strengthen design capacities; (iv) improve response times to clients orders; and, (v)
introduce new technologies and techniques, in order to diversify or extend an enterprise's production
capacities. Qualifying criteria for grant support, including specification of qualifying firms, qualifying
activities (including defined deliverables), and qualifying expenditures; in addition to guidelines on
"Objectives and Essential Concepts", 'Resources and Level of Support", "Management and Supervision"
and "Accounting and Audit Procedures" are outlined in the TDS "Manual of Policies and Operating
Procedures" which is featured in the overall Project Implementation Manual. The scheme will be available
to both the industrial and service sectors, with individual private enterprises, private sector groupings and
sector organizations being eligible to sponsor programs under the scheme. The TDS will be restricted
to first applications only, to avoid recurrent subsidy of the same technology services. Both foreign - and
domestically sourced - technology services will qualify under the scheme. The attractiveness of the
Technology Diffusion Scheme is that it is demand-responsive and promotes private sector delivery of
technology services, while avoiding the creation of heavy public institutional structures. Shared cost is
essential to the success of TDS, as it promotes a sense of shared ownership with the promoter, and yet
meets enough of the cost to give users the incentive to do something new and different in upgrading their
production processes.
3.9    The Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology (MIMI) will have overall responsibility for
the supervision and implementation of the scheme. The Ministry, however, will contract out day-to-day
administration of the scheme to a private sector management contractor. See the Project Implementation
Manual for the TOR for the TDS Management Contractor. The Ministry will delegate its supervision of
this contract to a small TDS Supervision Committee with representatives of the Prime Minister's Office,
MllT, Ministry of Finance (MoF) and the private sector, which will: (i) ensure the contractor is abiding
by TDS guidelines; (ii) approve grants over US$50,000, and (iii) facilitate the various govermnent
approvals required for individual firms to utilize foreign expertise. This structure has the advantage of
sending a clear message that the scheme is designed to give a temporary boost, not a permanent



- 28 -
institutional presence, and allows for the implementation of performance incentives to encourage the
efficient execution of the scheme by the contractor. The private contractor will have three principal
functions: administering disbursement under the scheme, marketing the scheme and building up a register
of providers of technology support services. In this respect, the TORs for the TDS Management
Contractor favors a contractor that can furnish the services of a two-man team; a specialized external
consultant/expert with experience of the international market in technology support services and possibly
experience with similar grant support schemes elsewhere; and a generalist who has good contacts in the
domestic market. The external consultant's tenure will be limited to the first 18 months of the project,
encouraging skills transfer to the local partner.
3.10   Grant recipients in the private sector will be required to sign a letter of agreement, binding the
recipient to present defined deliverables for viewing by scheme administrators, and Bank supervision
missions. Depending on the circumstance, a defined deliverable might consist of a new quality manual
or manufacturing procedures manual, a consultancy report by the technology expert being funded, or a
draft design for a new product/service training program or production system. The letter of agreement
will also bind the recipient to document all claims for the reimbursement of half of eligible expenditures
as grants will be paid on a reimbursement basis.
3.11   The management contractor will submit to the TDS Supervision Committee annual work
programs and twice-yearly progress reports. These reports will be timed to coincide with overall project
reporting schedule outlined in paragraph 3.47. Basic information on the types of programs being funded,
that does not prejudice the confidentiality of individual enterprises, will be made available to the media
to maximize the demonstration effects of the scheme. The 'TDS Manual of Policies and Operating
Procedures' and the terms of reference for the TDS Management Contractor were finalized and agreed
at negotiations. Invitations to bid for the TDS Management Contract were issued prior to Board
presentation, and the selection of a contractor and the setting up of the TDS Supervision Committee will
be conditions of loan effectiveness. After the fund has been fully disbursed an impact study of the TDS
will be carried out.
2. Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure to Improve Export Quality
3.12   The project will provide technical assistance, training and equipment to develop MSTQ
infrastructure in Mauritius. As indicated in Section II D quality services are increasingly in demand for
firms to attain standards (specifically the ISO 9000 series) required on international markets and to
improve product and service quality as enterprises upgrade production capacities. Many of these services
can be provided by the private sector, but some public infrastructure in metrology, standards, testing and
quality (MSTQ), is essential to the development of these private sector services and the general
enhancement of export quality. In strengthening the MSTQ infrastructure, the project focuses on the
Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB) and developing an independent laboratory accreditation scheme.
3.13   During project preparation, it was important to formalize a MSTQ strategy that defines (i) the
relative roles that the public and private sectors are expected to play in the delivery of MSTQ
infrastructure and services; and that (ii) provides a regulatory framework that encourages competition in
the delivery of these services, while ensuring the provision of basic MSTQ infrastructure and training by
the public sector. The MSTQ strategy formalized during project appraisal (See Annex 1) was finalized
and agreed during negotiations and adopted by the Standards Council (MSB's governing body) prior to
Board presentation. The MSTQ strategy is broken down into two components a 'National Quality



- 29 -
System' and a 'National Metrology Standards Testing and Quality Accreditation (MSTQ) System". The
National Quality System defines a strategy of training and consultancy to improve quality systems in the
productive sectors and the means by which these industries and services can be registered as conforming
to relevant quality standards. The National MSTQ Accreditation System defines the regulatory framework
for all the supporting services in metrology, calibration, testing, and registration of quality systems. It
should be noted that the strategy was developed in consultation with both the private and public sectors,
which had already broadly agreed upon the major elements of a pragmatic MSTQ strategy, and that
project preparation simply formalized this internally-developed approach.
3.14   To effect this strategy the project will encourage private sector delivery of MSTQ services under
the TDS, while this component strengthens the Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB) and supports the
creation of a National MSTQ Accreditation Council, whose initial functions will center on independent
laboratory accreditation.
3.15   The Mauritius Standards Bureau. To respond to increasing demand for quality services the
MSB became a corporate entity with 100 percent government ownership, in July 1993. This gives the
Bureau a greater degree of independence in managing its resources, which is particularly important in
setting salary levels and retaining staff. Furthermore by mid-1994 the MSB will move into new purpose-
built freestanding premises, more conducive to the execution of its role than those previously provided
by the University of Mauritius. Building on these important structural changes the project will help
upgrade MSB's activities in four areas. One will put into place all of the necessary elements for MSB to
play its role in the 'National Quality System". The second involves management and institutional
upgrading of the MSB, primarily through a twinning arrangement with another national standards body
which has been particularly effective in keeping pace with global developments. The third will upgrade
MSB's metrology and testing and information facilities to meet private sector needs on international
accreditation. The last area of support will initiate action to enhance the image and reputation of the
Mauritian MSTQ infrastructure (principally MSB) among the country's trading partners.
3.16   (a) Establishment of a National Quality System. A national quality and registration system
ensures that the private sector has access to the necessary training to upgrade in-firm quality systems and
has the means by which to register their production facilities as demonstrating compliance to international
quality standards. This project will provide technical assistance and training to: (i) develop and
implement a general and comprehensive quality training program for senior trainers; (ii) provide lead
assessor training for MSB and industry personnel and quality documentation and internal audit training
for industry personnel; (iii) provide specialized training to MSB staff in ISO 9000 assessment and
certification; and (iv) launch and execute a general quality outreach and promotion campaign. With regard
to the general quality training program, after fully defining curricula requirements, a quality training
provider will be engaged to license use of course content, texts, and training aids; train a cadre of senior
trainers; and supervise start-up, provide up-dates, and periodically monitor performance. MSB will
oversee and co-ordinate the training operation as part of the overall National Quality System, and its staff
will provide specialized training in such areas as metrology and calibration, but day-to-day instruction
will be accomplished through an existing government or private sector training institution, which will be
nominated. Selection of the quality training provider and the appointment of the local training
organization to execute the program will be a condition of loan effectiveness. This general training
program will be complemented by lead assessor and specialized assessment and accreditation courses so
that Mauritian assessors can be registered as lead assessors. With these elements in place the country can
quicldy establish a domestic ISO 9000 registration capacity under the auspices of the MSB. Completion
of (i) preparatory training programs on quality documentation; (ii) the tender process for lead assessor



- 30 -
courses for MSB personnel, (iii) tutoring of MSB assessors to enable them to qualify for registration, and
(iv) the terms of reference for the quality training system will be conditions of disbursement for the
National Quality System. The initiation of the National Quality System is expected to give rise to strong
demand for quality consultancy services, which will be supported under the TDS. Finally, to ensure that
the parameters of the National Quality System are clearly understood by industry an awareness program
will be overseen by the MSB.
3.17   (b) Management and Institutional Upgrading. While many MSB senior staff have been at the
bureau for more than ten years, their focus has largely been on standards writing and implementation,
and they have had few opportunities to appreciate the role that a national quality and standardization body
must play in an emerging economy to sustain industrial development. The project will finance technical
assistance and training to upgrade skills and managerial capacities. The primary vehicle for transferring
managerial skills and experience to MSB senior staff and members of its Standards Council will be a
three to four year twinning arrangement with a world-class, full service, standards body which has
successfully kept pace with MSTQ developments. Possible candidates include, but are not limited to
institutions in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, Ireland, and Canada. Exchanges of
senior staff, assessment and counseling by the chief executive officer and technical specialists, open
informal communications between counterparts; and participation in seminars and other fora are just a
few of the mechanisms that can be used to enable MSB to acquire hands-on experience. Integral to this
whole process will be upgrading MSB's capacity to: (i) plan strategically, (ii) market effectively its
services, and (iii) manage the transition from developing national standards to adopting international
standards. In addition to the twinning arrangement the project will provide technical assistance to develop
MSB skills in each of these three areas.
3.18   (c) Complementary Services and Supporting Facilities. In the area of metrology, a major
impediment to Mauritian enterprises' full compliance with international criteria for their quality systems
is the lack of primary metrology capability at MSB in a few areas, most notably temperature, force,
pressure and wattage. In addition there is a need for a national calibration system to enable companies
to access the primary metrology standards through secondary calibration service providers. In most
countries these providers are private sector enterprises. Over the four-year period the project will
therefore strengthen the metrology services of MSB in the form of training and equipment and assistance
in developing policies and procedures for an effective National Calibration System. The project will
provide technical assistance and equipment in the development of a small test equipment/instrumentation
and repair center to ensure that all MSB's test and calibration laboratories can be efficiently and
effectively maintained. The project will also provide equipment for testing, notably for chemical analysis,
non-destructive testing and metallurgy.
3.19   (d) Enhancing the Image and Reputation of Mauritian MSTQ Institutions. The investment
that Mauritius makes in its MSTQ systems and infrastructure will benefit significantly all elements of
Mauritian industry. However, this investment will not realize full dividends until Mauritius' MSTQ
systems and institutions are recognized and accepted by its trading partners. Therefore, the project will
provide technical assistance and training to advise the MSB Standards Council in what fora (that is the
relevant policy and technical committees) it should participate in international institutions such as ISO and
the International Laboratory Accreditation Conference (ILAC).
3.20   National MSIQ Accreditation Council - Laboratory Accreditation Scheme. The growing
number of laboratories in the private sector providing MSTQ services has resulted in demand for the
development of an independent laboratory accreditation scheme, to assure overseas buyers that these



- 31 -
laboratories are operating to international standards. Customers or regulatory bodies among Mauritian
trading partners are becoming more insistent on product certification or certified test reports. Customers
and regulators may specify that testing or product certification be done at government or independent
private laboratories. In either case there is a growing requirement that the laboratory be accredited to the
criteria of ISO/IEC Guide 25. This laboratory accreditation scheme cannot be operated by the MSB, as
the MSB has to have its own laboratories accredited by the Scheme. The project will therefore finance
the development of independent laboratory accreditation under a small National MSTQ Accreditation
Council, within the Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology, made up of a committee of
independent experts and an administrative staff of two. The project will provide specialist training for
assessors. The activities of the National MSTQ Accreditation Council may be expanded to accredit other
MSTQ services when the demand arises.
3. Trade Facilitation
3.21   The project will support the start-up of a new Electronic Trade Facilitation System (ETFS). At
present, trade documentation clearance takes between two to four days, involving an average of seven
agencies in the public and private sectors, multiple forms containing duplicate information, substantial
delays in the examination of merchandises, and time lags between processing of trade documents and
payment of duties. The project will provide technical assistance, specifically requested by the
Government, to the high-level Steering Committee, chaired by the Financial Secretary of the Ministry
of Finance, to ensure that all the necessary legal, technical (including data security and integrity),
marketing, customer services, and administrative functions are in place to implement the electronic trade
facilitation system, and to provide quality assurance for the functional specifications of the system. At
present, Government has no internal and impartial specialized expertise to monitor the supplier (SNS),
resolve technical issues, and provide adequate and effective training to ensure understanding of the new
system and procedures for using it. Terms of reference for technical assistance in these areas to be
provided under the project are contained in the Project Implementation Manual.
3.22   Substantial investment in training will be indispensable for users to adopt the technologies and
work methods required by the new the electronic trade facilitation system. The National Computer Board
will be assisted in playing a catalytic role in facilitating adoption by private sector users of the new
system. Following its initial design phase, an extensive EDI training and awareness program will be
targeted to take full advantage of the electronic trade facilitation system. The training program will
involve managers, supervisors, and terminal operators from the Customs and Excise Department,
Ministry of Trade and Shipping, commercial banks, Mauritius Marine Authority, Air Mauritius, customs
brokerage firms, clearing and forwarding agent firms, among others. An estimated 625 managers and
1,260 technicians and operators would be trained in EDI applied to trade facilitation and supply
management, and the objectives, pricing, contracts, and infrastructure for the electronic trade facilitation
system. The supplier would be required to train a limited number of trainers (from SITRAC and MCCI)
during the first phase of the Project to minimize the number of consultants needed to support the phased
implementation. The training program, with details on courses, target staff, vocation and duration is
provided in the Project Implementation Manual.
4. Economic and Regulatory Environment
3.23   (a) Restructuring Investment Authorization. The project will provide technical assistance to
restructure industrial investment authorization. As indicated in Section II the investment authorization
process in Mauritius is unnecessarily convoluted, and has cumbersome procedures, requiring in the case



- 32 -
of some investments up to 24 authorizations before a project can start operating. The creation of the One
Stop Shop in 1990 did not resolve the problem since the underlying procedures imposed by various
ministries involved have not been simplified.
3.24   To overcome these problems the Government of Mauritius has determined to restructure industrial
investment authorization under this project. The restructuring program will be completed in three phases
as follows: (i) technical assistance to develop recommendations to improve investment authorization
(based on an analysis of present procedures and bottlenecks), which will include an action plan detailing
the necessary steps to implement the recommendations; (ii) Government consideration and decision on
these recommendations; and (iii) technical assistance, as required, to implement the recommendations.
Government review of the recommendations will take place no later than the mid-term review in
September 1996.
3.25   In drafting the recommendations under the first phase of the program  the objective will be to:
eliminate discretion in investment authorization criteria, and streamline core investment authorization
procedures, notably work and residence permits, minimizing turn-around times. Successful models
applied in the offshore sector and in other countries such as Singapore will be drawn on in developing
these recommendations. The technical assistance will also provide for the drafting of an action plan
defining: (a) the necessary steps required for implementation of the recommendations, including the
necessary discussions for policy decision and the drafting of legal and regulatory changes; and (b) a
schedule of these steps, indicating timing. Following Government consideration of the recommendations,
in the second phase, further technical assistance to implement the program will be defined, as necessary
in the third phase. Terms of reference for this technical assistance are contained in the Project
Implementation Manual.
3.26   Review of the Retiremnent Savings System. The project will provide technical assistance for the
study of reforms in the retirement savings systems. As indicated Section II E, present public retirement
savings structures are inhibiting the development of efficient factor markets. The objective of these
retirement savings systems reforms will be to: (i) encourage the mobilization of long-term savings with
the aim of deepening resources available to the private sector; (ii) encourage the portability of pensions
between the public and private sectors, thus enhancing labor mobility; and (iii) secure the financial
sustainability of the public retirement savings system.
3.27   A proposal for the review of the retirement savings systems and terms of reference for first-year
activities is contained in the Project Implementation Manual. The proposal is divided into three phases.
In the short term it is proposed that the "vesting" requirement before a civil servant is entitled to pension
benefits be immediately reduced from 15 to five years. In the medium term a series of studies are
proposed to assist Government on how best to develop a more uniform national retirement savings
system. Over the long term the establishment of a Government's Actuary position is proposed, to ensure
that Government liability is systematically monitored. The project would finance the medium-term
studies. The recommendations of the medium-term studies, consolidated into a comprehensive action plan
for pension system reform, will be considered by Government no later than the mid-term review.
3.28   Technical assistance under the project will be used to: (i) carry out studies to estimate the
growing unfunded liability in the public retirement savings system; (ii) define the necessary amendments
to existing retirement savings plans, required to develop a more uniform national retirement savings
system; (iii) develop rules for the greater integration of existing retirement savings plans; and (iv) review



- 33 -
related issues, such as whether the retirement age for civil servants needs to be revised, particularly if
there are changes to benefits.
3.29   (c) Developing Productivity and Competitiveness Indicators and Improving the Monitoring
of Industrial Development. As production capacities are upgraded and diversified, information on the
productivity and competitiveness of key economic sectors will be important to both private and public
policy and investment decision making. At present only basic productivity indicators are produced by
the Central Statistical Office (CSO) and there is a complete absence of competitiveness analysis. The
project will provide technical assistance to MIT in collaboration with the CSO to improve existing and
develop new productivity indicators. New productivity measures will include indices of total factor
productivity and labor productivity at a sectoral level. Using these indicators, the project will provide
technical assistance to MIIT, Ministry of Finance (MoF), Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development (MEPD), and CSO to develop capacities to evaluate country competitiveness.
Competitiveness analysis will include international comparisons of productivity, along with broader
examination of market penetration and diversification. Finally the project will provide technical
assistance to MHT to strengthen its industrial monitoring and policy formulating capacities with special
reference to productivity and quality improvement, design and R&D. Terms of reference for these
activities are contained in the Project Implementation Manual.
D.    Project Costs
3.30   Total project costs are estimated at US$13.3 million, with a foreign exchange component of
US$11.2 million. These are summarized in the Project Summary Table on page (iii) and detailed in
Annex 3. Costs have been calculated excluding taxes and duties. Costs include expenses related to
consulting services for technical assistance and studies; training both locally and abroad; the purchase of
equipment and supplies, including metrology and testing equipment and computer hardware and software;
and other miscellaneous expenses, including initial dues in the International Organization for
Standardization and initial communications costs.
3.31   Technical assistance and training costs are based on recent costs for comparable technical
assistance and training being provided by the Bank under other projects and by other institutions,
including UNDP. The costs have been estimated as follows: (i) specialist services, US$130,000 per
annum; (ii) foreign short-term consultants, US$24,000 per month; (iii) travel, US$4,000 per trip; and
(iv) subsistence, US$150 per diem.
3.32   The base costs for the project are expressed in end-1993 prices. Project costs include physical
contingencies for all project items, estimated at five percent of base costs per annum. Price contingencies
(expressed in dollars) have also been added, with annual rates of 2.5 percent during project
implementation.
3.33   Estimates for the foreign exchange component were arrived at as follows: (a) equipment and
supplies, 90 percent; (b) training abroad, 100 percent; (c) foreign specialist services and foreign short-
term consultants, 100 percent; and (d) miscellaneous expenses relating to ISO dues and conference
expenses, 100 percent. The resulting foreign exchange component, including contingencies, is estimated
at about US$11.2 million.



- 34 -
E.    Project Flnancing
3.34   The proposed IBRD Loan of US$7.7 million equivalent would finance 58 percent of total costs.
IBRD will finance the foreign costs of technical assistance, training, equipment, and supplies in the
following components: Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure (US$3.5 million); Trade Facilitation (US$0.7
million); and Regulatory and Economic Reform (US$0.3 million). IBRD will also supply US$3.2 million
in foreign and local costs associated with the Technology Diffusion Scheme. The Government of
Mauritius will finance expertise, training, equipment, supplies, and communications in the following
components: Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure (US$1.4 million); Improving the Delivery of Public
Services through Trade Facilitation (US$1.2 million); and Implementation of Key Regulatory and
Economic Reforms (US$0.3 million). Private sector operators will finance the purchase of technology
service contracts amounting to US$2.7 million. A summary of the financing plan is outlined in the
Project Summary Table on page (iii), with Annex 3 giving details of the project financing by nature of
the activity to be financed.
F.    Project Implementation, Monitoring and Mid-Term Review
3.35 Institutional arrangements: The Ministry of Industry & Industrial Technology will have overall
responsibility for implementing two full components - the Technology Diffusion Scheme (MTS) and
Strengthening of MSTQ Infrastructure -- as well as the sub-components involved in restructuring the
investment authorization process and the development of productivity and competitiveness indicators in
the regulatory reform component. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the implementation
of the component to improve the delivery of public services through trade facilitation, and for reviewing
and restructuring the retirement savings system in the economic and regulatory reform component.
Project coordinators have been named in each of these ministries. An implementation schedule outlining
the timing of project activities is given in Annex 5.
3.36   The TDS will not be directly managed by the Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology.
This cost sharing scheme will be managed under private sector contract, issued under tender by the
Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology requiring the non-objection of IBRD. There are two
reasons for this implementation approach. By implementing the scheme under management contract for
a fixed period of time a clear signal is sent to the market that a permanent institution is not being created.
The management contract provides for twice-yearly reporting procedures to the Ministry of Industry &
Industrial Technology. Qualifying criteria for projects that can be funded under TDS are also clearly
defined, along with day to day operational arrangements of the scheme. The independence of the scheme
in its day to day management is therefore assured.
3.37   'Strengthening the MSTQ Infrastructure to Improve Export Quality' has two major groups of
sub-components. One involves the strengthening of the Mauritius Standards Bureau, which will be
implemented by MSB, a corporate entity with one hundred percent ownership by the Ministry of Industry
and Industrial Technology. The other much smaller component, the strengthening of the National MSTQ
Accreditation Council, will be implemented directly by the Ministry of Industry & Industrial Technology,
which will form a committee of experts and will assign two administrative personnel for the day-to-day
operation of this scheme. Both the strengthening of the MSB and the National MSTQ Accreditation
Council will take place in accordance with a National MSTQ Strategy acceptable to the Bank.



- 35 -
3.38   The Ministries of Finance and Industry & Industrial Technology and IBRD will jointly organize
a project launch workshop immediately after loan effectiveness to familiarize key officials of all agencies
with important aspects of the project, including procurement and disbursement procedures. The scope
of the project launch workshop has been discussed with the beneficiary agencies.
3.39   An annual project implementation review will be conducted by the World Bank, the coordinators
of the Ministries of Finance and Industry & Industrial Technology and relevant staff from each of the
beneficiaries. These reviews will monitor overall project execution with specific reference to the
monitorable indicators mentioned in Annex 6 and agreed at negotiations; update the project timetable; and
identify implementation issues and develop appropriate solutions to arising problems. The Ministries of
Finance and Industry & Industrial Technology coordinators will make the necessary arrangements to
provide the requisite information for the annual review of the project and to furnish any other information
that maybe required by IBRD on an ad hoc basis.
3.40   Mid-Term Review. It was agreed that the Ministries of Finance and Industry and Industrial
Technology shall no later than September 30, 1996, carry out, jointly with IBRD and with the
participation of the relevant beneficiaries, a mid-term review of the project with a view to implementing
soon thereafter the recommendations of the review. This review will cover inter alia: (a) a comparison
of overall project performance against established and agreed key performance indicators (see Annex 6);
(b) an assessment of project sustainability; (c) an evaluation of consultants' performance; (d) a review
of the organizational changes recommended for investment authorization; (e) a review of actions taken
to implement reform of retirement savings systems; (f) an evaluation of the progress of the TDS and the
strengthening of MSTQ under the Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology; and (g) an evaluation
of efforts to strengthen the delivery of public services through trade facilitation under the Ministry of
Finance. In order to facilitate this review, the Ministries of Finance and Industry & Industrial Technology
have agreed to prepare, no later than three months before the review date, a preliminary mid-term review
report, the format of which will be agreed upon beforehand with IBRD.
G.    Procurement
3.41   A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 3.1 below. Procurement will be the
responsibility of the project coordinators in MoF and MIIT who will organize selection committees,
consisting of the relevant departments of their respective organizations and government agencies, to
review each procurement. The implementing agencies are aware of Bank guidelines. The MoF and MMT
have experience with Bank procurement, and MSB, which will be conducting procurement under the
guidance of MET, will be introduced to these at the project launch workshop. All contracts for goods
under international competitive bidding and contracts for consultants would adopt the World Bank's
standard bidding/contract documents.
3.42   Goods:  Procurement for all metrology and testing equipment amounting to more than
US$150,000 would be based on contracts awarded following international competitive bidding procedures,
in accordance with 'Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated May 1992.
Small contracts for equipment and supplies amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract, and up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$173,000, would be procured through international or local shopping
with price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IBRD. The highly specialized equipment required for the test equipment/instrumentation maintenance
and repair center will be procured through limited international bidding, up to an aggregate of



- 36 -
US$150,000. For items under shopping and international limited bidding, because of their specialized
nature and small value, international competitive bidding would not offer any special advantage.
3.43   Consulting Services: Consultancies (key first-year tasks are summarized in Annex 2) include
technical assistance, training and studies, and are the principal focus of this loan. Consulting services
would be selected in accordance with "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency," dated August 1981. Technology services financed under the TDS
on a reimbursement basis would be awarded to private sector operators according to commercial
procedures, generally by direct contracting arrangements where quality would remain of paramount
importance, up to an aggregate of US$2.7 million. As indicated in the management contract (which is
contained in technical assistance in Section B of the proposed procurement arrangements), the TDS
manager would ensure that the technology service contracts are awarded at a reasonable cost, account
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency, and quality of the services
and the competency of the respective contractors of them.
3.44   Review Procedures:  All contracts for goods under international competitive bidding and
contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Contracts
below the above threshold will be subject to the Bank's post review on a selective (one in five) basis.
All consultants' contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior review; however, contracts under Cost
Sharing Technology Services provided under the TDS would be reviewed and managed by the TDS
Management Contractor. The Bank will review the first five contracts to ensure proper procedures are
being followed. Thereafter, a post review of one in five would be conducted. All procurement carried
out will be reported to the Bank on a quarterly basis in accordance with an agreed format.
H.    Disbursements
3.45   Disbursements under the IBRD Loan would be made on the basis of categories and percentages
shown in Table 3.2 below. The Loan would be disbursed on the basis of fully documented withdrawal
applications, except for expenses disbursed against SOEs, as described in para. 3.46. The estimated
disbursement profile is outlined in Annex 4.
3.46 Special Account: In order to facilitate the disbursement of funds managed by MIIT, a Special
Account will be opened by the Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology in a commercial bank
acceptable to IBRD. The initial deposit of up to US$500,000 covers four months of eligible expenditures.
Replenishment of the Special Account would be made on a monthly basis and would be fully documented
except for contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation shall be reviewed as part of annual audits of the
project. Replenishment will be supported by bank statements and reconciliation of statements. The
Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology will deposit adequate resources in the project accounts
(para. 3.45) for MSB and the TDS to cover their respective first month's expenses, after which time their
accounts would be reimbursed from MIIT's Special Account.



- 37 -
TABLE 3.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
IX          X=          NJ.B.F.al  TlWa
A. Goods
Equipment and Supplies                   1.63        0.48 b/      1.01         3.12
(1.63)      (0.32)_/                  (1.95)
B. Consulting
Technical Assistance                                 3.56 4/      0.65 _/      4.21
(2.99) _1                 (2.99)
Cost Sharing Technology Services                     2.68 f/      2.68 fp      5.36
(2.68) f/                 (2.68)
Training                                             0.16 41      0.26 y/      0.42
(0.08) 41                 (0.08)
C. Miscelaneous
Incremental Dues/Other                                            0.16 h/      0.16
--Total   -   - - 0   -                     1.63      0 6.88         47           13.2
(1.63)      6.  
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD. Procurement of goods will be in
wcordance with World Bank Guidelines on Procurement (May 1992).
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
h/     Includes US$150,000 in limited international bidding for highly specialized equipment for which there are
only a limited number of international suppliers and for which ICB would not be appropriate; and
US$ 326,000 in shopping for numerous small contracts for materials and supplies below US$50,000.
e/     Includes US$150,000 in limited international bidding and US$173,000 in shopping.
{I     Services should be selected in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
e/     Related to Electronic Trade Facilitation System.
f/     Private sector operators would obtain technical assistance according to commercial procedures, generally
by direct contracting where quality would remain of paramount importance.
g/     Related to Establishment of National Quality System.
h/     Includes US$62,000 for incremental dues for full membership in ISO; US$31,000 for communications
costs for trade facilitation; and US$64,000 for miscellaneous expenses and supplies for retirement savings
systems review.



- 38 -
Table 3.2: Summary of Disbursements
(IJS$ Million)
Loan         Percentage
Amount          Financed
A. Ministry of Finance
1. Equipment & Supplies                               0.03         100% F.E.
2. Consultants' Services and Training
Trade Facilitation                                 0.65           100%
Regulatory and Economic Reform                     0              100%
Subtotal Consultants' Services and Training        QJ
Subtotal Ministry of Finance                          0 81
B. Ministry of Industry and Industrial
Technology
1. Equipment and Supplies                             1.84         100% F.E.
2. Consultants' Services and Training
National Quality System                            0.71           100%
Cost Sharing Technology Services                   2.68     100% Eligible Exp.
TDS Management Contract                            0.47           100%
Management and Institutional Upgrading;
Complementary Services and Supporting Facilities;
Enhancing Image and Reputation of Mauritian
MSTQ standards;
National MSTQ Accreditation Council; and
Regulatory and Economic Reform                    0.95           100%
Subtotal Consultants' Services and Training         L1
Subtotal Ministry of Industry and Industrial
Technology                                           6.65
Unallocated                                            24
Total                                                 7.70
, Loan amounts financed by IBRD.



- 39 -
I.     Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.47   The Ministries of Finance and Industry and Industrial Technology will establish and maintain
project related accounts for their respective interventions. Project accounts - to reflect all project
resources, expenditures, assets and liabilities - will be maintained in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Annual General Statements will be prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards and audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by independent
auditors acceptable to IBRD. A review of the Special Account and an auditor's opinion with special
emphasis on the audit of SOEs will be provided. The auditor's report will include a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of the statement of expenditures
as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. The audited financial
statements and auditors' reports thereof will be submitted to IBRD within six months of the end of the
period to which they relate.
3.48   The Ministries of Finance and Industry & Industrial Technology, no later than September 30 of
each year, will provide IBRD for its review and approval detailed work programs of their respective
components of the Project for the forthcoming year. Furthermore, the Ministries of Finance and Industry
and Industrial Technology will provide IBRD with an evaluation report of the Project activities undertaken
in the previous twelve month period between September 1 and August 31.
3.49   The project coordinators, will submit to IBRD semi-annual reports on project implementation,
including procurement information and expenditures by March 30 and September 30 of each year,
beginning in March 1995, using a standardized reporting format, and indicating:
(a)   updated cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project; and
(b)  the revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract awards, and
completion time for individual contracts.
3.50   The Project Completion Date is expected to be December 31, 1998, while the Closing Date
would be June 30, 1999. An Implementation Completion Report will be submitted to IBRD within six
months of the Closing Date of the IBRD Loan.
J.     Project Supervision
3.51   Given the multi-faceted nature of project components, requiring specialized follow-up and
involving important institution building efforts, project supervision input by Bank staff is expected to be
above average in the early stages of the project (during the first fifteen months, beginning with Loan
effectiveness). To ensure clear understanding of project implementation requirements, an implementation
manual has been drafted and will be finalized with Mauritian counterparts during the project launch
workshop in September 1994. The workshop will include sessions on procurement and disbursement
under IBRD-financed projects, standard formats and procedures to be used for project reporting, and
detailed review of the implementation timetable. A proposed supervision plan for the project is found in
Annex 7.



- 40 -
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefits
4.1    The implementation of a technology development project in Mauritius is a necessary precondition
to further sustainable growth in the country. Full employment and increasing competition in international
markets require technological advancement if the economy is to continue expanding. Indeed, unless
Mauritius succeeds in building a technologically dynamic productive sector, it risks losing its comparative
advantage even in traditional exports. Successful implementation of the project will lead to productivity
gains and will make possible non-inflationary wage increases.
4.2    Through the Technology Diffusion Scheme the project will improve the private sector's access
to a broad range of technology support services, essential to the upgrading of productive capacity. In
fulfilling this central objective the project will at the same time be stimulating the provision of these
technology support services by the private sector, and so avoid the creation of heavy public institutions,
which would be difficult to justify at this stage of Mauritius's economic development. In short, the
Technology Diffusion Scheme's long-term benefit will be to catalyze the development of an active market
in technology support services with a minimal requirement for sustained Government intervention.
4.3    While much of the technology support services can be provided by the private sector, the project
will support key infrastructure needed to ensure the growth of private sector services. The MSTQ
infrastructure will be strengthened to ensure better access to training, metrology and testing facilities in
assisting Mauritian enterprises attain internationally required quality standards. Streamlining the import
and export documentation process, through the implementation of a new electronic trade facilitation
system will result in more efficient clearance of goods and increased transparency in trade documentation.
Technology acquisition will be greatly enhanced through the restructuring of the investment authorization
system, reducing administrative barriers to new investment and thus improving the prospects of foreign
investment becoming a major conduit for the development of new technological capacities. Finally, the
reform of the retirement savings systems will enhance potential for new investment by increasing labor
mobility and mobilizing long term savings.
B.    Project Risks
4.4    Risks of the project center on its novelty. All the components require intensive skilled human
resource deployment to ensure success in the development of institutional capacities and to their efficient
execution. The project has been structured in such a way, with implementation decentralized to highly
motivated agencies, as to minimize these risks. The risk of lack of Government ownership is considered
low. Government has a consistent record of initiatives to develop a private sector-friendly environment
and has actively participated and pursued the development of this project. Risks may arise, however, from
the lack of co-ordination between Government ministries, which have a strong history of autonomy.
Measures were taken at appraisal to ensure stronger inter-ministerial co-ordination for the successful
implementation of the project.



- 41 -
V. AGREEMENT1S. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    During negotiations. agreement was reached to the effect that:
(i)   Government shall maintain an 'MSTQ Strategy' satisfactory to the Bank until completion
of the Project (para. 3.13 and 3.37).
(ii)   The Government shall ensure that the TDS is carried out in accordance with the Manual
of Policies and Operating Procedures approved by the Bank (para. 3. 11).
(iii)  The Government shall carry out and monitor the progress of the Project in accordance
with the Monitorable Indicators for Physical Project Implementation and Attainment of
Project Objectives (Annex 6).
(iv)  The Government not later than September 30, 1996, will carry out jointly with the Bank
a mid-term review of the Project (para. 3.40).
5.2    Conditions of effectiveness:
The following will be conditions of effectiveness for the proposed Loan:
(i)   Appointment of the TDS Management Contractor and the establishment of the TDS
Supervision Committee (para. 3.11).
(ii)   Selection of the quality training provider and the appointment of an appropriate local
training organization to execute the National Quality System Training program (para.
3.16).
5.3    Condition of disbursement:
For the National Quality System subcomponent of the MSTQ component: completion of (a)
training programs on quality documentation and internal auditing; (b) tender process for the lead assessor
courses for MSB personnel; (c) tutoring MSB assessors to enable them to qualify for registration; and
(d) TOR for the quality training program (para. 3.16).
5.4    Following negotiations:
(i)   An MSTQ Strategy acceptable to the Bank was adopted by the Standards Council (para.
3.13 and para. 3.37).
(ii)   A Bid Invitation Letter for the TDS Management Contractor was sent out by MIIT (para.
3.11).
(iii) Project coordinators in the Ministries of Industry and Industrial Technology and Finance
were appointed (para. 3.35).
5.5    Recommendalion
Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an IBRD
Loan of USS 7.7 million to the Republic of Mauritius on standard terms.



I



Annex 
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF MAURnIIUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPEnTIIVENESS PROJECT
Comprehensive Strategy for MSTQ Implementation in Mauritius
1. Essential Concepts
a) All industrialized and NIE incorporate the following components in their industrial
infrastructure: metrology and calibration services, itandards development/adoption and
implementation, testing and product certification, and guality services. These components
are usually designated 'MSTQ", and together with information dissemination, encompass
'standardization technology".
b) Within the developed economies MSTQ resources and services are so pervasive that they
are taken for granted. These economies recognize that the disciplines of M, S, T, and Q are
essential elements of their industrial infrastructure and critically important to their ability to
improve quality, reduce costs and keep pace with constantly evolving technology. The need
for MSTQ resources and services increases rapidly as a nation expands its industrial base.
In the case of manufactured goods it may often be impossible to enter world markets without
complying with international standards and demonstrating the existence and effectiveness of
a program for quality assurance. A reputation for complying with standards and assuring
quality can increase market share and merit premium prices for exported primary
commodities, processed products, and  manufactured goods. Product certification -
compulsory or voluntary testing coupled with the use of a certification mark - can be a major
factor in helping a NIE break into new markets.
c) MSTQ principles and practices are being incorporated into the fabric of today's global
economy with particular emphasis on quality. Mauritius has not been in a position to do
anything other than react to these developments. Under the circumstances its limited
technical resources must be redirected to give higher priority to quality.
d) Both the private and public sectors have a role to play in the delivery of MSTQ services.
The inter-related public and private MSTQ resources together constitute the Mauritian
National MSTQ System. Its trading partners will judge Mauritian MSTQ qualifications and
capabilities on the basis of both the public and private components within its national system.
e) In nearly all market-based economies the private sector provides MSTQ services where
private returns are high. In these economies the public sector has five roles:
i)  promoting awareness of MSTQ issues particularly in a global context;
ii)  setting the correct regulatory framework to assure that competition prevails among
service providers;



Annex 1
Page 2 of 10
iii)  seeing that effective mechanisms exist which assure that all service providers possess
the requisite technical competence;
iv) providing services where social returns are high but private return are low such as
in the areas of training, primary metrology, and specialized testing, particularly that
which supports public health and safety; and
v)  negotiating mutual recognition agreements and similar instruments with national,
regional, and international government bodies.
f) Where the public sector competes with private sector service providers it must be on a
commercial, true-cost basis.
g) The credibility and reputation of Mauritius' MSTQ system will be dependent on the
establishment of an accreditation system with procedures which promote competition and
efficiency while conforming to international criteria for transparency and prohibit any
potential conflicts of interest.
2. Badgrsound
In the face of growing international competition, Mauritian enterprises are coming under
increasing pressure to upgrade the quality of their products and/or to demonstrate attainrment of quality
standards to maintain or capture export markets. As a result, demand for MSTQ services in Mauritius
is growing fast, particularly for implementation of, and certification to, the ISO 9000 series of quality
management system standards. These standards are recognized worldwide and apply to virtually all
production processes and services. In apparel assembly, as in other industries, buyers faced with the
choice of using suppliers or sub-contractors from different countries with similar costs are more likely
to choose those which are certified to ISO 9000, because this standard provides assurance that the supplier
has an effective quality system in place. ISO 9000 Standards are becoming important determinants of
trade in OECD markets, particularly in Europe.
The Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB) was authorized by the Standards Act of 1975 and has
been a fully operational national standardization body for the past ten years. Its scope encompasses all
aspects of MSTQ although some are not fully implemented at this time. As in most developing countries
MSB's efforts have focused on consumer products, and materials that affect building safety. Eighty-seven
standards have been developed and the majority appear to be purchasing specifications to support
government agencies in competitive procurement. It is understandable that the business community
perceives MSB primarily as a consumer protection agency and secondarily as a contract testing facility.
MSB is not identified as a substantial technical resource or a partner of industry. This is not uncommon
when a standards bureau's responsibilities are perceived to be primarily those of a regulator.
In addition to MSB, a range of private sector organizations provide MSTQ services. There are
more than 25 industrial, environmental, and medical testing laboratories. Third-party inspection services,
notably SGS, the International Wool Secretariat, and Optimex are providing consultancy and training in
quality in addition to their traditional testing services. A small but growing number of quality consultants
and assessors are offering their services. There have been numerous seminars on quality and ISO 9000,
but recently more substantive training has been offered including courses offered by MEPZA and IVTB



Ann  I
Page 3 of 10
as well as a two-year part-time program in the theory and practice of quality assurance at the University
of Mauritius. MSB has collaborated in developing and presendng these courses. At the present time
there are no private calibration services available to industry.
As Mauritius upgrades its technological capabilities a number of developments have transpired,
(or will occur in the very near future) which provide an opportunity for MSB to contribute more
substantially to the international competitiveness of Mauritian industry. These developments include:
i)   Enactment of the Mauritius Standards Bureau Act of 1993 which expands the
responsibilities of the bureau;
ii) transformation of MSB into a corporate body;
iii) receipt of a significant amount of metrology and test equipment through European
technical assistance projects;
iv) construction of a 4000 square meter building which will efficiently house MSB for the
foreseeable future;
v) global recognition that quality is a critical factor in international competitiveness;
vi) worldwide initiativex requiring certification of products, tests, personnel, laboratories,
and quality aystems by qualified third-parties as prerequisites for doing business;
vii) increasing awareness by Mauritian industry and government of many of the MSTQ
factors affecting its trade; and
viii) a burgeoning demand for MSTQ services to enable Mauritian industry to not only
survive, but to thrive in this environment.
A window of opportunity currendy exists during which Mauritius can position itself to enhance
its competitiveness. To help industry take advantage of this opporunity MSB must redefine its
objectives; develop a long-range vision and pragmatic strategy; and commit to expeditious
implementation.
3. Leng-rangr, Vision
International context
Affected interests may not yet recognize that the whole MSTQ field is moving forward at a
quickening pace throughout the world. For example, the international committee responsible for the ISO
9000 series expects to transform these standards into a Total Quality Management (TQM) system within
the next six years. More attention is being placed on certification of personnel in such areas as welding,
non-destructive testing, and quality assessment. Within two to three years a new series of ISO standards
setting requirements for environmental management systems wiUl be published. These are patterned after
ISO 9000 and rely on the same third-party assesasment and registration certification practices. The EC
Commission has already announced that it wil mandate their use.



Annex I
Page 4 of 10
Domestic Iitiatives
Under these circumstances and because of the growing demand by industry, Mauritius must
achieve as soon as possible the current level of MSTQ best practices and then keep pace with new
demands and more challenging requirements. The longer it waits the harder it will be to keep up with
the front-runners.
Existing MSTQ systems need to be enhanced and new mechanisms for delivering services may
be required. The primary goal is establishment of an effective national MSTQ system which integrates
the capabilities of the private and public sectors in the service of industry. A complementary goal is
positioning the Mauritius public and private MSTQ system so that it is recognized by its trading partners
for competence and credibility.
4. A Mauritian MSTO Strateg
An analysis of the needs and demands of industry, and an appreciation of MSTQ trends indicate
that strategic initiatives should be implemented in a number of areas. Both the public and private sectors
have significant roles. These initiatives should be focused on the following objectives:
i)   Expediting establishment of a national quality system with priority on training and
consulting services for industry.
ii) Improving the management skills of MSB senior staff and institutional upgrading to be
more responsive to the private sector's needs.
iii)   Establishing and upgrading complementary services and supporting facilities including
a national calibration system, laboratory accreditation, and information dissemination.
iv)  Taking appropriate action to enhance the image and reputation of Mauritius among its
trading partners.
In all of these areas the private sector should be afforded the opportunity to participate not just
in the resultant programs, but pro-actively to become more involved in strategic planning, prioritization,
and oversight. The central reason for this shift is to assume that the needs of the private sector are fully
addressed. Another is the significant amount of additional managerial effort required which will tax
existing resources but which can be accomplished effectively if the managerial skills and experience of
the private sector are tapped. A third reason is to establish a strong constituency for MSTQ. This aspect
will be critical to the future viability of MSB and the sustainability of the initiatives fostered by the
pending World Bank project and other technical assistance programs.
It might be argued that rather than establish an indigenous capacity to calibrate instruments and
equipment, certify products, or assess company quality systems Muritius should contract with well
recognized MSTQ service providers from OECD countries. The experiences of other NIEs indicate that
such an approach is not in the best long-term interests of a nation. The major advantage is immediate
acceptance and credence but this is achieved at considerable expense and other disadvantages. One of the
major problems with such an arrangement is the time delay in accomplishing what should be routine
services, but which necessitate shipping instruments back and forth for calibration, sending samples for



Annex 1
Page 5 of 10
testing, or waiting for the arrival of quality assessors. Users of these services do not benefit from
first-hand observation of test procedures or feedback on corrective actions. NIEs report that until
indigenous calibration, testing, or quality services become available only a few companies consider
utilizing them, not only because of the considerable expense, but because of the time and effort necessary
to contract for these services. NIEs must also take into account their national objectives. Foreign MSTQ
service providers seldom have a long-term commitment, and the transfer of technology is often less than
optimal and sometimes very limited. From the standpoint of sustainability such arrangements seldom can
be justified. Contracting out these basic services also puts a nation at a disadvantage in negotiating mutual
recognition agreements with its trading partners. The approach that will be used in Mauritius will be to
strengthen existing institutions and foster the establishment and expansion of Mauritian service providers
in the private sector while continuing to allow qualified foreign services providers to operate. Mauritian
institutions and service providers will be capable of serving the major industries within the nation. Should
specialized facilities or expertise be required to accommodate the needs of a limited sector the Mauritian
service providers can engage appropriate foreign laboratories or experts as subcontractors. There would
be nothing to prevent a firm from contracting directly for these services.
5. Establishment of a National Ouality System
Leading Mauritian enterprises are no longer asking what or why, but how they should implement
quality. They want training for their quality managers, quality consultants who are expert in their
industries, and the means to be registered to relevant quality standards. While the private sector may not
yet be aware of all the details, a national quality system goes beyond just assessment and registration to
ISO 9000. It is essential that a basic quality infrastructure also be in place particularly the following:
-   a national calibration system which conforms to internationally recognized criteria;
-   an ISO 9000 registration scheme with no conflicts of interest or other problems which could raise
questions about the integrity of the Mauritian quality system, and raises the effectiveness of
assessments;
- a comprehensive collection of applicable foreign, regional, and international standards which are
demonstrably up-to-date, as well as information on any pending changes to these standards or
new ones which are about to be released.
In most countries these elements of the quality infrastructure are the responsibility of government
and provision will be made to establish these as part of the World Bank project.
The urgent need for training in quality does not allow Mauritius the luxury of time to develop
a comprehensive curriculum, a dozen or more long-term and short courses, and the necessary text books
and training aids. Mauritius can expedite the process by tapping the capabilities of the dozen or more
world-class quality training providers. After fully defining the needs and through world tender, a quality
training provider will be engaged to
- license use of course content, texts, and training aids;
- train a cadre of senior trainers; and



Annex I
Page 6 of 10
- supervise start-up, provide up-dates, and periodically monitor performance.
MSB will oversee and co-ordinate the training operation as part of the overall national quality
system, and its staff will provide specialized training in such areas as metrology and calibration, but
day-to-day instruction will be met through an existing government or private sector training institution.
The strong demand for quality consultancy services will be accomplished through the pending World
Bank Technology Diffusion Scheme which encourages firms to engage private sector consultants by taking
advantage of matching grants. Foreign ISO 9000 registrars could also be engaged thus providing an
incentive for Mauritius to quickly establish its domestic ISO 9000 registrar.
To assist with this initiative, opportunities will be provided to Mauritian assessors to acquire the
necessary additional training and experience so they can be registered as lead assessors by an organization
such as the Registration Board for Assessors (UK).
6. Managfement and Institutional Upgrdiny
The primary vehicle for transferring managerial skills and experience to MSB senior staff and
members of its Standards Council will be a three to four-year twinning arrangement with a world-class,
full service, standards body which has successfully kept pace with MSTQ developments. Possible
candidates include, but are not limited to, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, Ireland,
and Canada. Exchanges of senior staff, assessment and counseling by the CEO and technical specialists,
continuing informal communications between counterparts, participation in seminars and other fora are
just a few of the mechanisms that can be used to enable MSB to acquire hands-on experience and
appreciation of the numerous factors which must be addressed to manage an effective national standards
bureau. In addition this twinning arrangement will be an efficient way to provide MSB with short-tem
technical experts to improve the proficiency of MSB testing services, train the chairmen of MSB technical
committees to more effectively manage their programs, and to expose private sector testing and quality
services to current best practices.
7. Complementary Services and Supportine Facilities
A major impediment to Mauritian industry to full compliance with international criteria for their
quality systems is the lack of primary metrology capability at MSB in a few areas, most notably
temperature, force, pressure, and wattage, and the need for a national calibration system to enable
companies to access the primary metrology standards through secondary calibration service providers.
In most countries these providers are private sector enterprises.
Customers or regulatory bodies among Mauritius' trading partners are becoming more insistent
on product certification or certified test reports. Customers and regulators may specify that testing be
done at government or independent private laboratories. In either case there is a growing requirement
that the laboratory be accredited to the criteria of ISO/IEC Guide 25. (Incidentally this requires, among
other things, that the laboratory have an ISO 9000 quality system and calibration traceable to primary
metrology standards.)
Some metrology and testing equipment will be necessary to enable MSB to fulfill its
responsibilities but the primary need is for training, establishment of a National Laboratory Accreditation



Annex I
Page 7 of 10
Scheme, and upgrading the National Calibration System. In addition the MSB library needs to be
transformed into an outward looking information center.
8. Enhancing the Image and Reputation of Mauritian MS    Institutions
The investments that Mauritius makes in its MSTQ systems and infrastructure will benefit
significantly all elements of Mauritian industry. But this investment will not realize full dividends until
Mauritius' MSTQ systems and institutions are recognized and accepted by its trading partners. The
primary strategic initiative is to actively involve Mauritius in those international fora which are setting
the policies and practices which directly affect Mauritius' destiny in world trade. Until now Mauritius
has been on the sidelines as certification and accreditation criteria have been established and implementing
mechanisms have been set up. By pro-actively participating in targeted, relevant fora, Mauritius can
- join with countries having similar interests and press for reasonable measures that take into
account the special concerns and needs of emerging industrialized nations;
- learn of new policies and practices sufficiently in advance to take appropriate anticipatory action;
- learn how other nations are addressing the requirements imposed by international and EC MSTQ
organizations; and
- demonstrate to the rest of the world that Mauritius has the talent, resources, and commitment that
enable it to fulfill the MSTQ expectations of its trading partners.
To accomplish these objectives, Mauritius will become a full member of ISO and participate in
two or three of its major policy councils. (Full membership will enable Mauritius to share in the revenue
of all ISO standards sold in Mauritius and benefit from technical assistance and training material provided
to ISO members from developing countries.) Also relevant is the International Laboratory Accreditation
Conference (ILAC) and two EC quality and certification bodies. Funds will be used during this start-up
phase to pay ISO and ILAC dues and necessary travel to these and EC fora. Trips will not be the
exclusive prerogative of MSB staff but whenever possible a private sector member of the Standards
Council will participate.
In addition to the policy fora, Mauritius will become a participating member of two ISO technical
committees. One is transforming ISO 9000 to a system encompassing all elements of Total Quality
Management (TQM) and the other is applying ISO 9000 techniques to environmental management
systems. There are other international technical committees which impact Mauritius' exports but
participants and funding should be from the affected industrial sectors.
Mauritius, as a signatory to the GATT, has obligations in providing an enquiry point for any
other signatory which has questions about Mauritian Standards and Regulations and in giving preference
to the use of international standards.



Anex 1
Page 8 of 10
Accreditation Council
MSB will operate the national quality system certification and registration scheme to ISO 9000.
As the demand for ISO 9000 registration increases, we can expect several internationally recognized
certification and registration bodies to provide such services in Mauritius. These bodies will have been
accredited by a national accreditation body or have obtained credibility through mutual recognition. It
is therefore essential for MSB (and any other local registrar) to establish its credibility, preferably by
becoming accredited. In view of the limited number of registrars needed in Mauritius (there may be one
only), there appears to be no need at this time to have an accreditation council for quality certification
and registration bodies in Mauritius. MSB could be accredited by overseas accreditation bodies such as
RvC (Netherlands) or RAB/ANSI (USA), pending the establishment of an international system for the
accreditation of quality registrars.
The national quality system certification and registration scheme will need the services of qualified
assessors. Mauritian assessors will be registered by the Registration Board for Assessors of the UK or
a similar organization.
The strategy to be followed for the recognition of testing and calibration laboratories is different.
There is a need to establish a national MSTQ accreditation system to accredit testing and calibration
services in Mauritius, and as necessary, quality systems. To ensure its integrity the system should be
independent of MSB, which has its own testing and calibration laboratories. For this purpose an
independent, National MSTQ Accreditation Counci! should be established to provide one-stop
accreditation with first priority for testing and calibration, but with the ability to expand into related areas
(e.g., personnel, welding, and non-destructive testing). This will enable the Mauritian National MSTQ
Accreditation Council to seek mutual recognition agreements with the national accreditation councils of
trading partners of Mauritius.



An=e I
Page 9 of 10
National Quality and Registration System Model
ReeistL!r
Qual i ty
Traiilniin.
Providers
Oiersens
hnod ic s         Accredit HISU          Employ               Audit   Ii,dustry  Advise Consultisin
c.g ItvC                 .> ald  tiler         >  Asscssors       >        and     <           firns
perrdina                    registrars                                 Services
ijnternational
systemI
Certify
Overseas bodies
certifylna
flS SCSSO I 5
e.g. RUA (UK)
HIIT to
facilitate
mutual
recosnltion



Annex 
Page 10 of 10
National MSTQ Acreditation System Model
Systems uhici, certLfy   Accredit          Ratlonal H5TQ                                 HIIT
personnel           <             Accreditation Counl>  to facilLat
e.g                                                                               mutnal
lOT, Welding                                                                           recognition
-              - ~~~Ccr tlzr     
_ e    x 1    CallDratc                                  Vcrif y
;   rali  ation                    I> Public and Private                  >
1   ervics        eqluLp-ent             Testins services    eomplinnce
Overseas
National       Calibrate prlnnry           National
HetrolaC-y   <                               eHasurement
Laboratory    measuremcnt standards        Laboratories



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MAURTUS
TFEICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
Main Technical Assistance and Training Activities
Summary Description of First Year Tasks
1.    The full terms of reference of the tasks described below are contained in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). The Terms of Reference Section of the manual will be
systematically updated as further tasks (second, third and fourth years) are defined.
A.    TECHNOLOGY DIFFUSION SCHEME
2.    The management contractor for the Technology Diffusion Scheme (TDS) will have three
principal objectives.
(i) Efficient Administration of the TDS Scheme. In setting up and managing the scheme
according to the criteria laid down by the TDS Manual of Policies and Operating
Procedures - The Manual - (See the Project Implementation Manual), the contractor's
principal objective will be to ensure to that the TDS is administered according to sound
management, financial and accounting principals.
(ii) Effective Marketing and Promotion of the Scheme. In marketing the scheme, the
contractor's central objective will be to ensure that the scheme's operating criteria are
clearly understood by potential beneficiaries, and that the fund is fully disbursed before
project completion in support of qualifying activities defined in the Manual
(iii) Ensuring Potential Beneficiaries are adequately assisted in Developing Programs for
Technology upgrading. The third major objective for the contractor will be to assist
potential beneficiaries in sourcing suitable service providers, and in assisting
entrepreneurs in programming their technology upgrading initiatives.
Initially, a two-man team is expected to carry out the TDS Management Contract. A technical
consultant with experience of technology-related support services and a consultant with good
knowledge of the local market are required. In the event that the technical consultant is an
expatriate, his/her services are to be provided for a maximum of 18 months. Thereafter, the
local market consultant, after having acquired the necessary skills, will operate alone. This is
the only long-term technical consultancy to be financed under the project.
B. MSTO COMPONEN"
Quality Training:Implementing an Effective Ouality Management System.
3.    The objectives of these quality training assignments are for the Mauritius Standards
Bureau to lead a training initiative to enable: (a) those enterprises which are already motivated



Annx 2
Page 2 of 3
to improve their quality systems, to learn what and how to implement effective internal programs;
(b) quality personnel to acquire skills and training to be competent assessors for their internal
quality operations; and (c) current assessors to acquire the additional training and experience
which would enable them to be certified by a recognized accreditation or registration board.
Ouality Management Training: Curricula Consultancy.
4.    The objective of this consultancy assignment is to assist the Mauritius Standards Bureau
to develop, in collaboration with an appropriate local training institution, internationally
recognized training programs in Quality Technology which focus on the needs of local industry,
and which specifically include training in the area of Quality Management Systems (QMS)
Auditing/Assessing (to the ISO 9000 Series of Standards) and training in the area of Total Quality
Management (TQM).
C.    TRADE FACILITATION COMPONE
Electronic Trade Facilitation System: Implementation and Supervision.
5.    The objectives of this consultancy is to support Government in the implementation of its
new Electronic Trade Facilitation System through technical assistance in: (a) Audit and Quality
Assurance; where a consultant will act as a resource and advisor to the Electronic Trade
Facilitation Steering Committee, ensure completion of a basic user requirements specification for
the proposed system, review technical specifications, and ensure there is a workable
implementation plan. (b) Awareness and Training; where a consultant will prepare and present
a range of awareness, training, and promotional activities such that all electronic trade facilitation
system staff, public and private sector users, and influential bodies-internal and external-
understand exactly what the aims and objectives of electronic trade facilitation system are, how
it will be used and why, what they have to do to make use of it, and likely costs and benefits.
And (c) Marketing and Business plan; to ensure electronic trade facilitation system begins with
realistic expectations, a business plan will be prepared assessing the number of potential users of
the system, the rate at which they will join, acceptable pricing levels and varying pricing
algorithms for the service. The experience levels and potential levels of support for third party
software and for software implementation, support, training, and network maintenance will also
be assessed. With this information applications will be prioritized, types and messages will be
documented, and an implementation program prepared-both mandated (eg. for Customs) and
induced (eg. appropriate pricing). Clear and measurable outcome indicators for the use of
electronic trade facilitation system will also be established by the Steering Committee so that cost-
benefit data can be used for overall program evaluation.
D.  ECONOMC               EGUATORY COONT
Reucturing Industrial Investment Authorization.
6.    The Government of Mauritius has determined to restructure industrial investment
authorization under the Technical Assistance Project to Enhance Competitiveness. The
restructuring program will be completed in three phases as follows: (i) technical assistance to



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
develop recommendations to improve investment authorization (based on an analysis of present
procedures and bottlenecks), which will include an action plan detailing the necessary steps to
implement the recommendations; (ii) Government  consideration and decision on these
recommendations; and, (iii) technical assistance, as required, to implement the recommendations.
Technical assistance for a study will cover phase (i) of this program. The study will recommend
improvements to present systems of industrial investment authorization to facilitate the acquisition
of technology. The study's objective in developing these recommendations will be to minimize
ex-ante approval and to eliminate discretionality and streamline core investment authorization
procedures. The recommendations will be formulated into an action plan to be reviewed by
Government before the project's mid-term review.
Retirement Savings Systems
7.    The goals of this assignment are: (a) Sustainability of Public Service Pensions. The
consultants will prepare or direct the preparation of studies on behalf of the Government
regarding the liability in respect of the retirement savings plans for public servants. This analysis
should result in recommendations for possible changes to the terms and conditions of these
schemes so as to make them financially sustainable in the long term. (b) Portability of Public
Sector Retirement Savings Benefits. The consultants will review the terms of the various public
sector retirement savings plans in respect of the portability of benefits. With a view to enhancing
portability, they will identify the necessary amendments to the pension plans for public servants
and employees of para-statal organizations and also to the terms of the private section pension
scheme that would be necessary to permit workers in public sector employment to be included
in the contributory portion of that scheme. They will also review and make recommendations
relating to the integration of the public service pension benefits with those which could be made
available under the private sector pension scheme. The consultants will also propose transitional
rules for this integration of benefits.
Productivity Indicators and Competitiveness Analysis
8.    The objectives of this technical assistance are to support the Government statistical
agency, CSO, in providing appropriate information on productivity and competitiveness to policy
makers in the private sector and public sector and to assist MHT and other key ministries,
including Ministry of Finance (MoF) and Ministry of Economic and Planning Development
(MEPD) and the private sector in using this data to interpret industrial trends. By using this
information, policy decision makers in the government and private sector will be able to take
management decisions in a timely manner to improve Mauritius' productivity and international
competitiveness.
Strengthening Industrial Monitoring and Policy Formulation Capabilities
9.    The objectives of this technical assistance are :(i) to increase knowledge of MMT staff on
technology policy, which is a new issue to Mauritius; (ii) to communicate information on new
issues in Mauritius such as productivity and quality improvement, design and R&D; (iii) to
improve capabilities on conducting research on these issues by MIIT staff; and (iv) to provide
timely information flows to policy makers in the public and private sectors.



Republic of Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Techndo9gy Diffusion Scheme
Detailed Costs
(US$ VW)
Parameters (in %)
Phiy.       Groass
Quantities         Unit             Base Cost                 Totals Includbig Contingencies    Cont  For.   Tax
Unit  94196 95196 96197 97198 Total Cost 94196  96/6  9617  37198  Tota  94196  9U196  961s7  97198  Toti  Rate  Exch.  Rate
1. Investment Coats
A. Technology Diffsion Scheme
1. Management Contratj
Foreign Expeft                                    yar         1  0.5           -  1.5  140  140.0  70.0           -      210.0  148.8  763        -      -  225.1   5.0  100.0    0.0
Relocaton Exprems for Foeign Expert             kump sun                                       6.3    63             I- 12.5   6.6   6.8          -      -   13Z   5.0  100.0   0.0
Local Expet                                       years       I    1    1  0.5  3.5   40   40.0  40.0  40.0   20.0  140.01  42.5  43.6  44.7   22.9  1S3.7   5.0    0.0   0.0
DbectO pngEpE                                    kjmsum       1    1    1  0.5  3.5   25   25.0  25.0  25.0   12.5. 87.5   26.6   27.3   27.9   14.3 6: V0.1.  5.0    0.0    0.0
SubtDtal Management Contract                                                                   211.3  1413   65.0  32S.5:450k  224.6  1532   72.6  372  466.A
2. Technology Servke Contracb la
Coat Sharing Fudg lb                              valu                                       425.0  850.0  8500  425.0 2,55U0;  430.3  882.2  904.2  463.4 2,N60.1   0.0   90.0   0.0
Prtvt Sedor Contibution                           value                                      425s0  8500  8500  4250 2M5SOU0  4303  U22  904.2  463.4 2880.1   0.0   90.0   0.0
Subbla Techmology Sevce Contracts                                                              850.0 1,700.0 1,700.0  85010 5100.O  860.7 1,764.3 1,80.5  926.8:5,360.3
Totl                                                                                              1,061.3 1,U412 1,765.0  882.5 5W60  1,0I5.2 1,918.3 1,881.1  964.0D  848.6.
ti Assumed b be hdly commtied hi 3 years, wWt dibuemnts lgging approvals by 6 nths.
lb Prcud by priat seclor tough dred cotacting.
I. -
0
o-.1



Republic at Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Strengthening Mauritlu Standards B3ureau
Detaled Cosft
(US$ 8000)
Pity.     Geese
Quantitie          unit               Sae" codt                 Toftk alsckudng  ontiencs    coant. per. Tax
unit  34331   6331   oalcs                43    53    63   37136Om           4136  3113611  36I37  37136  Rob      ffxS,. Rate
L investment Costs
A. Esabllslhmeatofl Naioa  uAlity Syste
1. Two LUad A"sseso Cosma for MUS end Irustry Persnne
Two Foreign EVe.ts                                               2 weelr     2                   2        8   24.0                         4k 25.5         -      -     -65.5.0100i.0  0.0
TrweltoUsMauitkua                                                 2 rlp       1    - -           1        4    8.0                         80k    8.5             -           U    5.0 100.0  0.0
Subherneni                                                      2perdeme  '15    -      - -15          0.15    4.5                          6     4.8            -             J 5.0  0.0  0.0
Subteta Two Lead Assesso Couses for MMS ad Industry Personnl                                                    36.5                        385 38.8               -.15
2. senior Trainin Scheme
TrainlngSenior Trnero  Licens Fees.
"yItne. Stwt-. Csa" a Overight                                   Yalue                                       62.5  125.0  62.5       .  60    66.4  136.2  69.8            725 5.0 1100.0  0.0
Sewieaof FheTraining SWtaffrlngStut-W                             Syes      0.5    1  0.5    - 2         12   30.0  60.0  30.0        -10        31.9  65.4  33.5          I10-.   5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtota Senior Training Schemeo                                                                                 92.5  185,0  92.5       - 30.   96.3  201.6  103.3        -403.3
3- Outreach &Prmdkfm d  uaRV                                        value                                       50,0  50.0  50.0  50.0:::00Id.   53.2  54.5  55.9  57.3  20.   5.0  0.0  0.0
4. Acwedltaton Service In Technrld Areas WVhere
MSB AseneAorsAe Urqued la                                          vakue                                              50.0  50.0  50.0'10                54.5  5668  57.2 ..8t    5.0 100.0  0.0
5. Adaenoed Trainin in Qualty Auditig, TOC & SOC                    value                                              25.0  250   25.0::. mq             27.2  27.9  286   35 5.0 100.0  0.0
6). Study TOMato See lrnplemertai  ci IS09000 TaI TObr              value                                      180.0                       18k191.4                       .*4        5.0 100.0  0.0
7. Commenc inplrnermtaton di ISO 9000 OAelIy System                 vakue                                       60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0 2,4J0k   63.8  65.4  67.0  68.7:. 264.0. 5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtotal Establishmen of National uality System                                                                  419.0  370.0  277.5  18e5 0 1-2d1   445.5  403.2  310.0  211.8 11.34?OA
S. Management and nsftItuIonl Upgrading
1. Draft Long-Term Stratgies  Action Pltans for M,S,T & Q
Foreign e)e"t                                                     martha     I          .        1       24   24.0      -                  40 25.5         -      -26AS  5.0 100.0  0.0
Travel                                                             rIs       1     .         - 1          4    4.0      -40                       4.3      -      -     - 4 5.0 100.0 0.0
Subsistence                                                      perdlhem    30         .      30      0.15    45       -              . 6        4.       --                4 5.00.0  0.0
Subtotal Draft Long-Term Stratgis & Action Plans for M,S,T & Q                                                  32.5                        32.k  34.                       ..1.
2. Two MantrtStudies d Dwemnd or MSTOawnd lnkratlonSer4ces          study      I    - 1    - 2             10  '10.0      .10.0         -  2k 10.6           - 11.2       -21A8  5.0  0.0  0.0
3. Twinning Arrangement
a. Visit & Negofitiatons with Short-Lisled IrstitAlons
by Dirctor and De"t* Dvedr                                       value                                       36.0      -             -34 38.3             -             .11 5.0 100.0  0.0
b. rimplementation kc
Fees to InstituIoAlm Twin                                      ..Knths     6   12  12  10  40           8   460   96.0  96.0  60.0'.320.0  51.0  104.6  107.2  91.6: 164L   5.0 100.0  0.0
Mm" NAdriniatrative and TnrM OqEnee                             moniths    6  12  12  10  40            2   12.0  24-0  24.0  20.0   *k 12.8  26.2  26.8  22.9  86.8  5.0  50.0  0.0
SuVbtai kmplementaton                                                                                         60.0  120.0  1200O  100.0. 400.0I  63.8  130.8  134.0  114.5. 443.1'
Subtotal Twinning Arrangemente                                                                                  96.0  120.0  120.0  100.0  436.0 102.1  130.8  134.0  114.5:,4814:
4. Tralnin for MSB Marketin Manage
at Two Stanards Bureau                                             value                                              12.0      -           20       -13.1        -      *.  3       .    .    .
5. Desktop Prhlng" EoApffmen /d                                     value                                       20.0      -                   j 2`1.3       -             -2A        5.0  0.0  0.0
IL Assistance In Transitio from Developing to Adopting Standard
Foreign Expert                                                    weeks      2   2    -          4        6   12.0  12.0       -       *24 12.8  13.1                   -.68 5.0 100).0  0.0
Travel                                                            tri111I               -        2        4    4.0   4.0              -..*4:  4.3   4.4          -         ..8 5.0 100.0 0.0
Subsisence                                                       per diem    1 5   1 5    - -30        0.15    2.3    2.3             *..k        2.4   2.5      -           448  5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtotal Assletnce In Transiton from Developing to Adopting Standards                                           18.3   1 8.3            -3..19.4  19,9             .       .  362.
Subtota Management and Institltonal Upgrading                                                                    176.8  1 50.3  130.0  1000. 86574.0  187.9  163.7  146.2  114.5  61: V,.:
M 
I'.



Republic of Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Strengthening Mauritius Standards Bureau (cont)
Detailed Costa
(US$ 000)
Parsmetera (in %L.
Phy.      Gross
Quanbtitss          Unit               Basa cost                Totals Including Contingencies    Cent. For. Tsx
Unit  94195 95/9 96197 97M9 Total  Cost   9413   9519   9619?  97M9  Total  NM1  95/ 96M317  3719   Total Rate Exch. Rafte
C. Compkementary Service and Supporring Factilities
1. Getting IS0 9000 RegIstrato  for 10 Laboratories
a. Advice on Necessary Action
Twe ForelgnEsVerts                                               2vweelcs         2   2    - 4            6       -24.0   24.0            48.0      -26.2   26.8         -   S3o   5.0100.0  0.0
Travel                                                            2 trips    -         1         2        4       - 8.0    8 0        -   d.0            8.7    8,9          III750 100.0 00
Subslaerice                                                    2 perdiemns    -1515         -30         0 15           4.5    4 5     -   00             4.9   5.0            0.9   5.000V00
Subtotal Advice on Necessry Acftin                                                                                      36.5  36 5           no7~         39.8   40.8      - 05-
2. Meet ntrbnational Criteria for AccredItation
of MSS Testng and Metrology Laboratores
a. Advice on Necessary Actions
Foreign Exped                                                    weekrs      - 2                 2        6           12.0     -      - .0          - 131                -   151J   50100.00.0
Travel                                                            tripe           I              1        4       -    .  4.0               .0           4.4      -        -~4.4   5.0 100 00.0
Subetoerice                                                      perdlhem    .15       -       15       0.15           2.3                 Z3~           2.5      -           2.05.0  0.00.0
Subtota Adviceen Necessary Actions                                                                                  - 18.3                  16519.9                 -      - 1.
3. MSTQ EquIpmen A Supplies /e
Metrakog                                                            value                                           .250.0              -  ~0         -272.4               -    4     5.0 100.0  0.0
Testing                                                             value                                           -1,250.0     -         120           1,362.1    -      -1321 5.0 1100.0  0.0
Replacemen and Upgradng of
Teett angdCalibrationEqripmeri                                     value                                       107.5  107.5  107.5  107.5  4~0 114.3  117.1  120.1  123.1  47.   5.0 100.0  0.0
eibilographi Daabae on Stardads P                                   value                                        50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  20        5&2   54.5   55.9   57.2  22A 5.0  50.0  0.0
Copying Ste Licenses
and RoyaMies fo Stanwdae                                           value                                         5.0   5.0   50       .   2.       5.3   5.4    5.6    5.7  221 5.0 100.0  CLO
Subtotal MaTO Equipmet & SupplIes                                                                                 162.5 1.662.5  162.5  162.5 2,150.0  172.8 1,811.6  181.5  1186.02,0P.
4. Test Equlpnmntilnsu,nentati Makitenance and RepaIr Center
a- Advice en Setilng.Jp ad operatio
ForeipnElipa                                                     wAeal.           2    - 2    4           6           12.0          12-0  24.0      .13.1         - 13.7   26j   5.0100D.0 0.0
Irsue                                                             tripe           I    - 1   2            4       - 4.0        -    4.0    1             4.4      -    4.6   .0   5.0 100-00.0
Subselstenoe                                                     per diem    -15       -1530            0,15           Z 3     -    2.3    45       -    2.5      -    2.6    Ad: 5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtoaml Advice en Setltinig-Up and Operation                                                                       - 18.3       - 18.3.3 ~685            19.9      - 20.9 ::40.8
b. Equipmnent /g                                                    value                                              150.0     -          5W0       -13.               163.5        5.0100.0  0.0
Subtotal Test Equlpomentinsfumentetien Maintmennce and Repair Center                                                     i 68.3    - 183: 106.5            183.3      - 20.920.
SuttlComnplementry Services and Supportng FacIlities                                                           '162.5 1,885.5  199.0  180.8 Z42.   1282046222.3  206.9 2.861
D. Enhancdng the mag i    eud Reputation
Of MAUrtaNM NaT  Standards
I. FLA Memnbership Dun in 1S0                                        dues/lyr    1    1    1   1   4         14   14.0  14.0   14 4.0 1410     14.9  15.3   15.6   16.0  #t.*f  5.0 100.0  0.0
2. Confernces, Fore and CoucIl Mneeting Ilh
Atiendance at Sbx Polcy
CoemclMeetingefs d   L9A AC/EC                                     2 trips    1   2    2    1   6          3    6.0  12.0   12.0   6.0   5.        6.4  13.1  13.4    6.9  3~::0?1  5.0 100.0  0.0
Attendanoe at IS0 TC 176. ISO TC 207. CASCO
andEC Quahyor Aocredliaton FonJm                                   2 trips    2    4   4    4   14         3   12.0  24 0   24.0  24.0  840   12.8  26.2   26.8 27.5   ~2 500.                   .
Subtotal Conferences, Fore and CounvcI MeetIngs                                                                    18.0  360   36.0  30.0  120.0  19.1  39.2   40.2   34.3 ~132.9
Subtota Enhancin  the knage and Reputation
of Maurtlian MSTQ Standwrds                                                                                         32.0  50.0  500   44.0  176.0~  34.0  54.5   55.8  50.419.
Total                                                                                                                 790.3 2.455.7  656.5  509.8 4,412.   840.2 2.676.1I  733.4  583.6 A833,
%a Exed amoufts to be determtined based on conipe demand.
%b For bxc USO stat and bx private sedor staf                                                                                                                                                               OQ :
(910
to Ma*numj amount of UsS40,000. 
Id Pvnctxe through lucal shopping.
%e Teroperature. force presxv and waltage.                                                                                                                                                                  o
V' hA IIgonsinterwus    Procured ttvough kiernatmonal shopping.                                                                                                                                              -
to Procued Itwoug L1P
hr For one MSB ela and om  prhoute secto representatNe.



Repubikc of Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Stsengthm ng National MSTQ Acreditation Council
Detaied Costa
(USS I00)
powne  SIh%)
Phy.       ous
quatl             unin               BaseCost                Ttoal hkicka*  Cani      _ces    Cant. For. Tax
UnIt 34*3633133361373113 Tot   Coo     3NM   NM    NW    W- 3Mt63   371    Tot   Raft Eac . Rate
L bwombat Cots
A. Lo qMM  Accreialm   Assesr Trq nn.
for Pte Sco  nd 3mmm    Lwatory Sam
1. Conui      S'ng,'
Th   Forn E                                               33          -         1    -     1     6                 1-.0                   -      -  20.1         520,1   5  1001  0o
Trl                                                        3               -   I         1       4             -12.0          -.13.4                             --13.i    S 100     0.0
S _nce                                                   3prd         -         7    -   7    0.15             -    312                              3.5    -: . 35   5.0  OA 0D
Subtoa Coultg Seves                                                                                              .  332       - B1.                -  37.0          3tO
L Assistance lo Nationa L*aorory A:ored a  chme
and N    l Calralln  System
1. D        PPey. Proced:we.
Foep Eu                                                   VAN "            3             3       6      -131 *          *   y-   131                   -      -:   M    5A 110D 0
Ts                                                         b          -   1    -   -   1         4           4D       *      -                 4.     4AA   5.0 1OD   0.
TdJ mlmbe                                                 perdem          21    -   -  21    0.15            3.2   3         -                 3.4     ''IA   5    01   OA
Total                                                                                                             .2    3. -2                       2 337A              I44
m Sw
0



Republic of Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Strengthening Delivery of Public Services Through Trade Facilitation
Detadb Cods
(US$ We)
Pwrnen (in %l
Phy.            Gros
Base Cod                     Totas KkdxnU C  onhg   i               Cont.   For.       Tax
9S4/8   956  36/37  97/93   Total  94J95  365S6   O6M?7  97113  Tota-             Rafe   ExdhL     Rate
L kwesbnewri Codst
A. Electronc Trade Facihtaion System.
1.Foweign Eqerts/                              386.0  611.5  160.5        - 1,158.0  410.4  666.4  179.3         - 1'&O            5.0    100.0       0.0
2.Communldafts                                    2.5   11.0   10.0    4.3   827.       2.7   12.0   11.2    4.9  30.?             5.0     92.1       0.0
3. AudbHy Equment /b                            205.0  216.2    3.8       -   42S.0  217.9  235.6    4.2         -        . ... 5.0    100.0          0.0
4. TrarVng                                       16.9   66.2   49.6   13.1   145.8   18.0   72.1   55.4   15.0 i,160-5             5.0     49.4       0.0
Tota                                                610.4  904.9  223.9   17.4  1.756.6  648.9  986.1  250.1   19.9 .149
a Hank4-nanced poion Is 48% of th total.
b Bank-financed poftn is 6% of the tl, and Is prcxued through khematkW shoppIng.
o m
0
-I



Republic of Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Regulatory and Economic Environment
Detailed Costs
(US$ VW0)
phy.       Gross
banLIflas           unum& clodt                                    Toblz hkcku*ig C-Oalgea           cmri. For.  Tax
linE    94MG 9WN N9? WIN TobI  Coat   NM13   9WIN N 9107  1K  r,:ol   9HIM 95                   amN W ?J90:::6 -ToW: Maim Much. Ral
L       mw,u  Coabt
A.. Resbuctw. hwednw.i Audwthoetzao
FcssgnExpev                                                 mwih         2    .         . -   2       24   48.0       -                    Q     51.0                    -      1     500.0        0
TFVWve                                                       thips       1    -          - 1           4    4.0       -                     0     4.3      -                     3-  5.01000   0.0
Stbtsiarmn                                                 per dam      49    -             49      0.15    7.4                            VA7.   7.8      -               . 18        .0   0.0 a
Subktl Rastrucbawe hwmsinAn AuUiodnoa                                                                        59.4                           "A  5.    63.1   -      -      - 8.
*. Reremimi avings Sysems Review
I. conaultent SeevIca
a. Foreign Technical Assitance
Two Fcrelgn Bedsp                                       2 we"k       9    -          - 9           6  108.0       -      -      -    01    114.8       -             - 114.8   5.01010o  0.0
TiuWI                                                   2 trips      3    -3                       4   24.0                           Z 4.0   25.5     -                   5~ 5.0 100.0   0.0
Subeetaenoe                                           2 pwd   a     63    -             63      0 15   118.9                          Ito  18 20.1     -      -           2.5.0  0.0  0.0
Mle.bneoo.A Eiqmmta an S&WpEa                            nue40-                                                                        8      2: 42.5:  5.0  0.0  0.0
Subkotal Foreign Tectwncal Asalstnca                                                                    190.9               - -   - i9oU   203.0         -      - 
b. Local Technical Asslatmeca
FoLmNLocalExperts                                       4 years      1                    1       12   48.0       -      -            480   51.0       -      -       -    1A    5.0  0.0  0.0
Misclaneous E,Wpewa and Suliplies                         ic                                           20.0       -      .      .    20lit  21.3       -      .      -    21.3   5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtcotal Local TechnIca AssIstanc                                                                       88.0       -      -      -    8.0  72.3         -      -        -n72.
Subtotal Consulwuts services                                                                              258.9       -- 2Wo- 2753 1                                       - 275.
2 Eqeipmet la                                              keM  sumn                                      1100.0      -                  106.0  106.3      -             - 10.3  5.0  0.0  0.0
subtotal P.AUrnuen Savings Systems Review                                                                   358.9                     - 358$  381.6          -             -581
C. Produc&flvt InldItors and Competitveness Analyasf
1. ProducUvtyt Ifndie
a. TraIingV
FomeigEvent                                              weeks       2    -               2      3.5    7.0       -             -      10    7.4       -                    A    5.0 100.0   0.0
Sutesetence                                            perduhem     1 4    -            14      0 15    2.                              1     2.2                           2.250  0.00.0
Subtotal Training                                                                                         9.1       --.91                       9.7      -             -     9.
b. ConsuMUing Services lb
ForeignExpeert                                           weeks       8  1.5             9 95     3 5   28 0    5.3       -33,3   29.8    5.7                  -      - 358   5.0100.0   0.0
TrawI                                                    tips        1    1          - 2           4    4.0    4.0              -      8$     4.3    4.4             -     &G   5.0 10D.0 0.0
Subaistence                                            perdtemn     60   10              To 7   0 15    9.0    1.5       -      -     10.5    9.6    1.6      -             1.2   5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtotal ConsuMIng Sewvicess                                                                             41 0    10.8      -      -    St    43 6   11.7        -      -     553
Subtotal Productivt Indices                                                                                50.1   10.8       -      -      0     53.3   11.7      -       - 60
2. Competitiveness Analysis
a. Training
Foreign Expe                                            weeks        2    -          - 2         3.5    7.0       -             -      7.     7.4      -                    A7   5.0`100.0  0.0
Subsmisence                                            pef chem     14    -              14     0 15    2.1       -21                         2.2      -      -      -     2.2   5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtotal Training                                                                                         9.1       -                     .1    9.7      -              .    97
b. ConsultIng Services kc
Foreign Expert                                          weeks        3  1 5    -        4.5      3.5   105    5~3        -      -     15.   '1I?     5.7      -             69   5.0 100.0  0.0
Tyavel                                                   trips       1    1I              2        4    4.0    4.0                     ta8.   4.3    4.4             -     8.6   50100a.0 0.0
Subsuetence                                            perdihem     21 10            -31        0,15    3-2    1,5       -      -      4.7    3.3    1.~     6-              0  50  0.0  0.0
Subtotl ConsultIng ServIces                                                                              17.7   10 8              -     28.4   18.8   11.7                  30,5
c. Semmar for Managefs                                     days        2    -    -          2      0.5     1 0      -      -       -     1.0    11 A            -             1.1   5 0   0.0  0.0
Subtotal Competitveness AnalyIs                                                                             27 8    10 8            -      85   29.5   11 7       -       - 41.2 
3Deskc Top Publishing Equipmert /d                          vau                                            00        -      -      -     2.      13       -      -21.3  5.0  0.0   0.0  o,
Subtotl ProductIvIty Indicators and CompetitIvenss AnalsIs                                                   97.9   21.5               - 119 4  104.0   23 4                    127.5                      :
0



Republic of Mauritius
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Regulatory and Economic Environment (cont.)
Detailed Costs
Parametes (in %)
Phy.      Goss
uanties            Unit              Bfa Cost                    Totabb nuding Continguis         ConoL For. Tax
uni     94S6 361#6 9117 57noI Total  Cost  94156   6116  96117  371#6   Total :. M6  ll    36137  371111 :-ToW   Rae ExdL. Rte
D. Strengthe ing" industrial Monitori                                                                                                                                         :
Pdkcy Frmuln capability
1. TrainIng  k idutil Technology
Deva _pmavi a Poliy Famn mit.on
Fo-iln Exl                                              weal.        2        -     -    2      3.5   7.        -                        -      - 7.0 7.4           .   74   59 100.0  0.0
Travels                                                 tr ips       2    -    -    -   2         4    8.0      -             -     1.     6.5      -             .     t         IOOA0.    0.0
Subsialhene                                            pardiern     14         .        14    0.15    2.1              .     .      21    2.2                        I..      5.0 100   0.0
Subtal Tran    in indutal Technology
Developmn & Polcy Formulation                                                                          17.1      -      -      -    17.1   18.2      -      -      -    18.2
2. Consulting Services if
ForelgnExper                                            Weals        6    -    -    -   6       3.5  21.0       -             -j  21.   22.3        -      -      -.   2.3   5.0 100.0  0.0
Subsistence                                            prdm         42         .        .  42  0.15    6.3         -      -         OS    6.7          -   -      - i         5.0  0.0  0.0
Subtotal Conaulng Sevicas                                                                               27.3      -      -      -    27    29.0       -      -      -   29.0
Subtotal Sftrenghning inukatrial Monitoring &
Polc Fonvuho Capablty                                                                                    44.4                                47.2      -              -  47.1
Total                                                                                                       560.5  21.5       -          0-2.0 599   23.4 A1A
Grand Total for Prfft                                                                                      3,022.4 5,248.5 2,678.5 1409.7 1   3170.2 6631.3 2pO1. 1 .5
N    i     conpudhle h--r as d _saitwe.
i Cwnled ovd by lie _wn. peon Mh pnNvide On hung.
Ic Crvdedou by 1e pern.peron who  o    l e ,    raking.
W iludig I  ing on iuhdwer d aoilhas. Procuredwoughlocal soppi
b Tr tipv e us in volve becum c ar-nonib   h d hi lie coneAe ncy.
V Cavile oui by lIe sawn, ahupu w*o proie thea"ia
m m
0
I-i
F-h
-4



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Disbursement Categories and Percentages
(in US$ Million)
Loan
Amount a/   Percentage Financed
A. Ministry of Finance
1. Equipment and Supplies                                       0.03     100% of Foreign Exchange
2. Consultants' Services and Training
Trade Facilitation                                            0.65               100%
Regulatory and Economic Reform                                0.13              100%
Subtotal Consultants' Services and Training                     0.78
Subtotal Ministry of Finance                                      0.81
B. Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology
1. Equipment and Supplies                                       1.84     100% of Foreign Exchange
2. Consultants' Services and Training
National Quality System                                       0.71               100%
Cost Sharing Technology Services                              2.68    100% of Eligible Expenditures
TDS Management Contract                                       0.47               100%
Management and Institutional Upgrading,
Complementary Services and Supporting Facilities;
Enhancing Image and Reputation of Mauritian MSTQ Standards;
MSTQ Accreditation Council; and Regulatory and Economic Reform   0.95          100%
Subtotal Consultants' Services and Training                     4.81
Subtotal Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology           6.65
Unallocated                                                       0.24
Total                                                             7.70
a/ Loan amounts financed by IBRD.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Disbursement Profile
(in USS Million)
IBRD Fiscal             Cumulative
Year      Semester    Amount    Amount   Percent*/
FY95       Sep-94        0.16        0.16         2%
FY95       Mar-95        0.84        0.68        11%
FY96       Sep-95        1.84        1.00        24%
FY96       Mar-96        3.51        1.67        46%
FY97       Sep-96        5.39        1.88        70%
FY97       Mar-97        6.43        1.04        83%
FY98       Sep-97        7.02        0.59        91%
FY98       Mar-98        7.44        0.42        97%
FY99       Sep-98        7.66        0.22        99%
FY99       Mar-99        7.70        0.04        100%
:/ Project-specific disbursement profile.
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
(in USS Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                        1995        1996        1997         1998        1999
Annual                                  0.84         2.67        2.92        1.01        0.26
Cumulative                              0.84         3.51        6.43        7.44        7.70



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS:
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Disbursement Profile Comparison
1 -
0.9
10.8
~0.6
0O.5                                                       A"o
0.4 04
0.2                         -
0
1       2        3         4        5        6        7        8        9        10       11       12       13
Semesters from Approval Date
Project-Specific          Mauritius: All Projects -  *  * IBRD: All TA Projects
PX m
oQb
I-h



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
1994           1995            1996            1997             1998
ID   Name                                                                                  Duration    Start     Finish   QQ2|3|Q4 QIIQ23  |Q4Q    Q2|Q3                                      23
I   I Project Effectivenew                                                                      Od   9/1/94    9/1/94
2   2 MiW-Tern Review                                                                           Od  9/26/96   9/26/.6
3                                                                                                                               3    Pl v ject   Com p ition O i Sn7nS Sn7M1 . ! .... . .... . . . ............................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . .     . . . . .   . .     .   . . .   . .
3   3 Project Completion                                                                        Od  3/27/98   3/27/91
4   4 Diftsou of Good Tecunology PractYes                                                    1040d   9/1t94    827/91.
5        4.1 Tchnology DiffUsion Schenue                                                     1040d   9/l/94  8.27/91
6            41.1 Mangent ontrac                                                              182w   9/1194    2/26/98       .
7            4-1.2 Launch weminars                                                              I w  9/29t94   10/6/94
8            4.1.3 Cosd swing funding                                                         182w   3m295    8/2719.
9            4.1.4 lmpadudy                                                                     4w   7/3098   8/279              -- -- - ----
0
Non-critical                       Summary               _
Milestone   *                      Critical     | =



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1994      1995          1996                199"7                        1"99
ID  Nane                                                                                                                                   Duration    Start    Finish   Q |Q2IQ3 lQ4 Q|Q2 IQ3 IQ4 QIQ2(Q3lQ4QIQ2  3Q4                                                                          III
10  5 Strengthening MSTQ Inhfrstrncture to Improve Export Qualy                                                                                1148d   414/94    U/27/98
J------------- 1-------------- - --------- .............               ........     ...----
11            51 Stmrgtheng the Maurtdu Standarda Burea                                                                                        1143d   4/4/94    3/27/98
12                   5.1.1 EAb at ofr Nmtlaa Quliy Systm                                                                                        920d   4/4/94    1/13/97                                                                       . .                                                       - -  1     
13                          5.1.1.1 Training proagwm  on quality docu_ntatin and ieal aditing for                                                  4w       4/4/94         5N/94.
industry personneiv j Effective Quality ManagemeAi  Ig                              )                          .-                        .| --
14                          5.1.1.2 Two kad meson counes for MSB and inusry pesoeml (EfftTive                                                      2w   9/5/94    9/19/94
Quality Managainat. Assiginat 2)
Q                                                                                                              US;t (    Mu agan at A "ip nent 2) .. 4 . . ........ ................ ............... .......... .. . . . . ~~~~~~~~. .   .   . .   .  .. ... ... ... ... .. ... .  . ... ... ... ... ..
15                          5.1.1.3 Quality  _anagenwt taiing cuffica co uhancy                                                                   IOd   6/6/94    61/ S94                     I.I-
. .. . ...    .. .. .. ..        .. .. .. .. . .. . . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. ..    .. .. .. . . ..    . .    .  . . ... ................ ... .. ..... . ...
16                          5.1.1.4 Traiseniortram                                                                                              104w   3/27/95    3/24/97                                                                                                             .
17                          5 1.1.5 Outred  and prownoion of quality                                                                            104w    9/1/94    1n9/96                                 m
A    .....   ...  1- -......  - -  - - -------- -- ---  --- ----- ..........  -  1-   --  ----   ---  -  - - ......-.
18                          5.1.1.6 Tutor MSB  mson to cable a  to qualilfy for regidraion (Effective                                              4w   7/11/94    3/394
Iuln   Mangrnn:Assignet3)
_                                                                                                                                                   Q=lh r   M  n e ana4 :   Assigunent 3) ............ ..... .. . . ..... .... .......................... .......... .... - .-- ---- - -- . | --------- ----- -     - -     -    - -     -     -   .    . .     . .     .    .   . .    . .      .     . .    . .      .    . .    .    . .    . .     . -  - -     - -     - -    - -    .   . .   . .    .    .
19                          St.1.7 Accredtado. h tedea arm when  MSB   mso n are not                                                            640d   5//95           10/13      /l - -      ..
qualfied
20                                  5 1.1.7.1 Services ofcrtified ISO  90                as6es5ors                                                 Sw       5/1.95         6.26.95
23                                  5.1.1725Scrvices ofcatifiedlISO 9000masscsn                                                                    3w   6124/96    3/19/96U
2                                                                                                                                    1   5. 1 .1. 7 .2  Srrv idti fied IS09000 cn Xw 6/24/96 U19f96 .. ......... . .................. ....... . ..... ......... .. ............... ...   .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .. ...... ... ... ...... ... ... . ..... ... ... ...   . . ...
22                                  5.1 .1.7.3 Services o(catified IS0 9000 asaon                                                                  Sw  U      IVU97       10/13/97
4-   ....     ..... -   ---------------- -- - -----   ----------------  - --1  -- -- ----------------  -- . .... -  .......------ 
23                           5. I 1. Advanced traring in quaity audting TQC and SQC                                                             130w    9/1/94    2127/97                                 m                                                        I
24                           5.1.1.9 Study tours to  e inVicnxntation of lSO9000 and TQM                                                           3w   6/3/95    6/22/95                                                  3
tLn
Non-critical                                           Sumry                  r             w
Milestone                                              Critical                                                                                                                                                 co



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
1994            1995            1996             1997             1998
ID   Namne                                                                                    Duration     Start     Finish   QI|Q21Q3IQ4 QI Q2 Q3 Q4 QI Q2 Q3 Q4                    2   3          Q2 Q3   4
25            SI.2 Mangemnt and Institutional Upgrmdb,g                                          1007d   9/1/94    7/13/n8
26                 5.1.2.1 Draft long-ten strategies and action plans for M,S,T A Q                 4w    InrY25    130/95
27                 5.1.2.2 Market studes of demand for MSTQ  nd information servkes               560d   10/3/94   11/25/96
28                      5.1.2.2.1 First narkd study                                                 4w   10/3/94   10131/94
29                      5.1.2.2.2 Sood nrket study                                                  4w   10/2896   11.25/96 .
30                 5.12.3 Twinning arrangement                                                    985d   10/3/94   7/13/98
31                      5.1.2.3.1 Visits nd negoiatioi with ort-listed institutions                12w   1013/94   12/26/94
32                      5.1.2.3.2 Negotiatio; and contat prqparation                               17w   12/26/94   4.24.95
33                      5.1.2.3.3 Inntation                                                       168w   4/24/95    7/13198
34                 5. 1.2.4 Training for MSB marketing nnager at two aindardi bureaus               2w  9M25/95    10/9195                               -
35                 5. 1.2.5 Desktop publishing equiprnst                                            1w   9/1/94      9/8/94I
36        $          11.26 T   d    fronm devfroping to adopting standards           ....  9/.9                      4./1/9
3                                                                                                  7   51 2 6.1   Aof f ors i gne N KIt 2W 9HT4 9/19n4 ...... 4 1 .............................. .............................. ...... ...................... . .... ........ .. .. ... .. .... .... .....
37                      5.1.2.6.1 Assiatance offoreigo expart                                       2w   9/5/914   9/19/94
3S                      5.1.2.6.2 Redwn offreign enat                                               2w   3/8/96    Vn4/16         .
00 0
Xx
(.5m
Non-critical                         Sumnmary                  0w                                                                             0
Milestone                            Critical                                                                                                 0 



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
1994                       1995                        1996                       1997                        1998
ID  Name                                                                                                                                                   Duration    Stat                      Finish  QJQ2|IQ3IQ4                                 Q                Q|Q2Q31 IlQ3                                              1    Q3
39                      51.3 Complemntary Services and Supporting Fadlitis                                                                                      1040d   9/1194    v27n91.
40                              5.1.3.1 Advke on necesary ade  t get ISO 9000 regitratlon for 10                                                                  28d   5/30/96 6/26/97
laboratories
Irbo                                                                                                                                        r    to rE  . .... .. .   , ...................... .......... ............................ ........... ................-- --... ... ....... .. . .... ....... .. ....   . ....... ....... ........ ....... ....... .......
41                                     5.1.3. 1.1 Technical aseidance firom two foreign experwts                                                                     2w   Sf30/96    6/13/96
42                                     5.1.3.1.2 Retun offoreign expeats for follow-up                                                                               2w   6/12/97    6t26t97
43                              5.1.3.2 Advice on neceg aay acinvto nie ktanational criteria for                                            hition                   2w    9t4/95    9/1 S.95.
of MSB testing and metrology taba
of MSB  testing rnd  rn d y   bbr                                                                                                    i    .       .       .....................       .....................     ..               ........  ...  ..................... .... ......
44                              5.13.3 Purrba  /lgy/lestig eqalpment and appes                                                                                    130d  2U29/96    2/29/9
453                                     51.S3.3..Mcrol                                                                                                             26w   2/29/96    3/29/96
.        . . ........  ;....    .....  -..........   .........   ........................... ...    ..    ........................ ......    .............................
46                                      5.1.3.3.2 Tesing                                                                                                           26w   2/29/96    3/29/96
47                              5.1.3.4 Acquismon and niainame ofbibliopaphic databas on dandards                                                                203w   9/1/94    3/27/93
43                              5. 1.3.5 Copying site liom     and royaties for dandas                                                                           20Sw    9/1/94                 3/27/93
49                              5. 13.6 Teat equipmnst/hutndo maintasce and repair center                                                                         410d  2/29/96   9/2/97                                                              ---                                              .-
_                                                                                                                                                                      51. 3 .61   Ade k esq ~ ~~~ ~_4opn 410d 2n9S. nM7 , , ... ............................. ............................ ....... ............................ ..... ...... ...... . ..... ...... ..... ...... .. . ... ...... ...... .....
so                                     5.1.3.6.1 AdvIce - aetting-up and operadlo.                                                                                diOd   2/29/96    9/25/9
5                                                                                                                                  1    5. 1.3. 6.1. 1Tef nfor e.e t   2 w   V29/96 3/14/96 ............................. ............................. ... ......................... ...... .................. ................. .................. .................
SI                                             5.1.3.6. 1.1Technicala--anctae fironforeign expert                                                                     2w   2/29/96    3/14/96I
52                                             5.1.3.6.1.2 Follow-up visit                                                                                            2w    9/1 1/97    9/25/97I
52  5.1.3.6.1.2Folbwupvisit                                                                                      2w       9/11/97           9125/97               !---------    ...........................    .              .       .        ............................  .................-.............................................................
53                                     5.1.3.6.2 Purchae equipment                                                                                                 39w   6/13/96    3/13/97
r0 |
'4
US
Nor-critical                                                 Summary
Milestone   *                                                Critical                      =



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
1994            1995             1996            1997       1     199S
ID   Name                                                                                     Duration    Start      Finish   QiIQ2IQ3JQ4 Q1 Q2Q3 Q4Q1 Q23                       I Q2Q3Q4QIiQ2 IQ31 | Q4
54            51.4 Enhancing the Intage ad Reputtion or Mauritian MSTQ Institutions              1040d   911/94    3/27/91_
55                 5.1.4.1 Full menmbership in ISO                                                186w   2       /2/95    827,98;
56                 5.1.4.2 Aftendance by MSB and privde sector represntatives at policy council   116w   9/1194    3/2619_
neetings of ISO and ILAC or EC
57                 5.1.4.3 Participationby MSBavd private secor represetaives inISO TC 176,       186w   2/2195    812798
ISO TC 207, CASCO and EC quality or accreditation forum
58       5.2 Strengthening Natioral MSTQ Accredkation Coundl                                      265d  3/31/5    9/5S6.
59            5.2.1 Latest date bywhkh Director of Natonal MSTQ Accreditaon Councfi                  Oa  8  1 3/    8/31/9        .
should he In place
60            5.2.2 Asistance to Nationa Laboratory Aiditation Schene and National Calibration      3w   12/4/95   12t25/95
System in developing policy, procechure, fee wcheduks and regulations                                                         | -     -- -           -
61            5.2.3 Labrtory accreditation auow traiig for private setew and MSB laboratory         1 w   829196    9/5196
1t_t
tDtX 
0
Non-critical                         Summary ar
Milestone                            Critical               0_



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
1994            1995             1996            1997             1998
ID   Name                                                                                     Duration    Start      Finish   O~Q2  Q3 jQ4 QI Q2JQ3           QITQ2TQ3 Q4 QI Q2JQ3                I2 3Q
62  6 lImproved Delivery of Publik Ser-vices through Trade FacWtatlon                             910d  9/19t94    3/16/98
63       6.1 Electronic Trade Facilitation SyslemnPreparation                                       gw   9/19/94   11/14/94
64       61 Audit and Quality Aasurance                                                            60M   9/19/94   12/12194
65            6.2.1 User requireents spectfication                                                  3w   9/19/94   10/10194
66            6.2.2 Technical specification                                                         2w   10110/94   10/24194
67            6.2.3 Implementation plan                                                             2w   I 0/24/94 I1l4
68            6.2.4 Legal plan for implementing electronic services                                 2w   I ifl94    1/19           
69            6.2.5 Aocptanoe and support tests                                                     2w  11121/94   12/5/94         
70            6.2.6 Audit report on standards, procedural and teleconmmunications linkages               1594       2124
71       6.3 Marketing mAn  Busainess Plan                                                        310d  9/19/94   11/27/95
72            6.3.1 Business and marketing plan                                                    52w   9119/94    9/1185
73            6.3.2 Promotional materials                                                         30w   9/19/94    4/17/95
74            6.3.3 Establishing Electonic Data Interchange Association                             0    91"5        1275
75       6.4 Post Implemnentation Review                                                          i.5w   8/7/95    8/16/95 
76       6.5 Plan for Further Expanasion                                                          1.5w   8/16/95    8/28/5
77       6.6 TrainIng and Awarenesa Services                                                      9104   9/19/94    3/16/98
78            6.6.1 Manaerial seminars                                                            182w   9/19/94    3/16/98
79            6.6.2 Short courses                                                                 182w   9/19/94    3/16/98
80            6.6.3 Management workshops                                                          182w   9/19/94    3/16/98
81            6.6.4 Techtnical workshops                                                          182w   9/19/94    3/16/9
OQ D
Non-critical                         Sumwmary    ~Wx
Milestone                            Critical                                                                                                  o  t
cot



g~- os 00 00 ; c
i
c E
X,~~~~~~~r .,-
.;~~~C
.  0        i            C
t ' t         _ ~ C 4
.,
8 Jo L aea
S xauuy                                                      1



REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Implementation Schedule
1994                   1995                   1996                   1997 I j                1998
ID   Name                                                                                                                          Duration    Start               Finish   QI|Q2|Q3|Q4 QI   2   3 Q4 QI   2 Q3                                                               IQ2Q3
91           72 Revew of Retirement Savings Systens                                                                                      175d  10/3/94    6/5/95
92                  7.2.1 Technical assistance in gathering data for evaluating retirement savings systems                                 3w      10/3/94       1024/94
obligations
93                  7.2.2 Local saff cany out required studies                                                                            13w    10t24/94         1/23/95
94                  7.2.3 Develop assumnpions for determining present value of future retirement savings                                   3w      1/23/95       2/13/95
systems obligations and consider possible alternatives to funding
95                  7.2.4 Local staff carry out further work                                                                              13w     2/13/95        5/15/95
%                   7.2.5 Follow-up technical assistance in modelling. calculations and scenario-testing                                   3w     5/15/95         6/5/95                                     3
_                                                                                                                                                                                 _   _  . .   _   ... . ... . ... . ....... .... ,,,,, ... ....... .........................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . .
97           7-3 Productivity Indkators and Competitivenesa Analyis                                                                     357d    10/31/94    3/13/96 
_                                                                                                                    ... .   j  .... ... ... .......... ........ ... ... . . . .................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .   . . . . . . . . . . .
98                  7.3.1 Training on productivity indices                                                                                 2w    10/31/94    11/14/94                                                                                                                    -
99                  7.3.2 Consulting an productivity indices                                                                               Sw    11/14/94         119/95
100                 7.3.3 Training on competitive analysis                                                                                  2w      1/9/95        1/23/95
101                 7.3.4 Corsulting on conVedtivenea  analysia                                                                             3w     1/23/95        2/13195            t
_                                                                                                                                         !---  -----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................  ---------------  ........    ..................
102                 7.3.5 Purchas  desktop publishing equipment                                                                             Iw    2/13/95         V20/95
103                 7.3.6 Seiina, on productivity measrnut for oorporate   r                       rmagehs                                  2d    2/20/95         2/22/95
104                 7.3.7 Follow-up technical asistance to CSO  and MIIT daff                                                               3w    2/21/96         3/13/96
105           7.4 StrengthKneng Mouitorng and PoIcy Formultion                                                                           125d  10/31/94   4/24/5 
106                 7.4.1 Train     in industria tecnology developmt and policy fomnulation                                                 2w    10/31/94    11/14/94
107                 7.4.2 Survey on IndustrIl  technoloy developnent                                                                     115d   11/14/94          4/24/95
.                                                                                                          ... .... .    '  ... ... ....................... .............................. .................... ............. . ...... . . . . . . . -...
lOS                        7.4.21 Technical assistnc  in designing quaestiom Lmanr otedmology developmeri                                   4w    11/14/94    12/12/94I
1                                                                                                                         05  7 421T eice indh irt e   ogydeveloprner 4w 1/1494 12/lV94 4 ... ......................... ....... ................................................. . ..................
109                        7.4.2.2 Tedical assisance in analysis of urvey  nd policy reco hmndations                                        2w    4/10/95         4/24/95            ,
P>
CDC>
m X
x
OD
Non-critical                                        Su rnrnary                  F
Milestone                                           Critical*0|



Annex-6
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITiVENESS PROJECT
Monitorable Indicators
PART I
Indicators of Physical Project Implemnentation
1994
A.    Technology Diffusion Scheme
-    Management contract begins                             September
-    Launch seminars                                        November
-    First grant approval                                   December
B.    Strengthenine MSTO Infrastructure
-    MSB initiates action to implement the GATT Standards
Code;                                                 July
-    MSB and local quality training institution establish joint
oversight committee and define responsibilities in a joint
memorandum of understanding regarding administration,
revenue-sharing, etc.;                                August
-    Minimum of four MSB staff be registered as lead assessors
by RAB (UK);                                          November
-    Negotiate TOR and letter of agreement with twinning
institution;                                          December
-    Complete negotiations with licensor of quality curriculum;    December
-    Initial staffing and revenue-development plan for MSB
completed.                                            December
C.    Improving Delivery of Public Services through Trade
Facilitation
-    Establish office and install hard/software for Electronic
Trade Facilitation System;                            October
-    Complete business and marketing plan for ETFS;        November
-    Management and technical training session.            December



Annex, 6
Page 2 of 6
D.    Economic and Regulatory Reform
Retirement Savings Systems
-    Provide a work plan with instructions for detailed tasks to    October
be carried out by local staff in modelling and evaluating
Government obligations under retirement savings systems.
Ivestment Authorization
-    Start study;                                           September
-    Communicate Findings and Action Plan to Government.   December
1995
A.    Technology Diffusion Scheme
-    First grant disbursement.                              March
B.    Strenfthenine MST  Infrastructure
-    Inaugurate quality training program;                   March
-    Appointment of Director of National Laboratory
Accreditation Scheme;                                 August
-    Define metrology and test equipment requirements;      September
-    Complete the upgrading of the MSB information center;  September
-    Initiate MSTQ outreach programs to EPZ and non-EPZ
enterprises;                                          November
-    MSB completes formal ISO 9000 assessment of minimum
of eight local enterprises.                           December
C.    Improving Delivery of Public Services through Trade
Facilitation
-    Deliver copy of bill of entry via ETFS;               March
-    Electronic submission of manifest;                    June
-    Payment of duty through electronic funds transfer.     October
D.    Economic and Regulatory Reform
Productivity Indices and Competitiveness Analysis
-    Seminar for management;                                February
-    Statistics ready for submission to Government printing
office;                                               April
-    New productivity indices produced, and existing
productivity indices expanded;                        April
-    International competitiveness analysis undertaken by
examining reports issued by Central Statistics Office and
MUT.                                                  April



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Strengthening Monitoring and Policy Formulation Capability
-    Survey conducted and report disseminated;              April
-    New policies formulated in the field of
productivity and quality improvement, design and R&D.  April
Retirement Savings Systems
-    Provide a report detailing assumptions of be applied in
determining present value of future plan obligations;  February
-    Consultants leave specific recommendations and action
plan for changes to be made to retirement savings systems    June
and related legislation.
Investment Authorization
-    Government communicates response to IBRD on
Recommendations and Action Plan.                      June
A.    Technology Diffusion Scheme
-    Preliminary Mid-term report from MIIT due;             June
B.    Strengthening MSTO Infrastructure
-    Release metrology and test equipment bid packages;     March
-    Establish and make operational necessary policies and
complete all procedures, fee schedules, etc. for the
National Laboratory Accreditation Scheme and Calibration
System;                                               March
-    MSB Standards Council working with senior staff of
twinning institution completes a 5-year strategic plan and
long-range vision;                                    March
All MSB senior staff (Director, Deputy Director, and
Divisional Standards Officers) complete two-month
exchange at twinning institute;                       March
-    MSB Marketing Director completes 5-year marketing plan;   March
-    Have participated in three ISO policy council meetings;  June
-    Assess MSB labs to ISO 9000 criteria for registration;  July
-    Ten graduates of quality training program registered as
lead assessors;                                       August
-    Have participated in one plenary meeting each of ISO TC
176 and 207 and joined at least one subcommittee in each;   September
-    Finish installation and acceptance of equipment.      October



Annex-6
Page 4 of 6
C.    Improvine Delivery of Public Services through Trade
Facilitation
-    Submission of import/export permits via ETFS;         January
-    Submission of CO/GSP/PTA via network;                 April
D.    Economic and Regulatory Reform
Retirement Savings Systems
-    Assessment of Government initiatives to implement action
plan                                                  September
1227
B.    Strengthening MSTO Infrastructure
-    Initiate MSTQ outreach to Government agencies;        January
-    Instrumentation and Maintenance Center fully operational;    March
-    Complete formal lab accreditation assessment at MSB;  July
-    Minimum of ten Mauritian laboratories registered to ISO
9000, and arranging for formal laboratory accreditation;  December
i998
A.    Technology Diffusion Scheme
-    Grant Fund 80% committed                              January
-    Grant Fund 80% disbursed                              June
PART It
Indicators of Attainment of Project Objectives
199C
A.    Technology Diffusion Scheme
-    Mid-Term Review. For Programs that have been
completed impact on exports and total sales analyzed to
see if target of US$2 additional sale per US$1 of grant
support achieved, along with analysis of attainment of
individual program objectives.                       August



Page 5 of 6
B.    MSB as an Institution
-    Reapportion ratio of technical to support staff from 3:4 (as
of December 1993) to 1:1;                              August
-    With a target of less than 50 percent Government subsidy,
increase self-earned revenue from 15 percent (as of
December 1993) to 20 percent.                          August
C.    Investment Authorization
-    Analysis of turnaround times on investment authorization
from Prime Minister's Office, MUT, and Bank of
Mauritius at mid-term review to assess if they meet one
month turnaround target.                               August
D.    Overall Project
-    Assessment of trend in EPZ productivity and
competitiveness indices plus share of exports in major
export markets (USA and Europe) compared to 1993 base.   August
A.    Technology Diffusion Scheme
-    For Programs that have been completed impact on exports
and total sales analyzed to see if target of US$2 additional
sale per US$1 of grant support achieved, along with
attainment of individual program objectives.           August
B.    MSB as an institution
-    Reapportion ratio of technical to support staff from 1:1 to
4:3                                                    August
-    Increase self-earned revenue to 30 percent, with a major
emphasis on revenue-earning activities other than product
certification or membership subscription contribution.  August
C.    Improvlng Delivery of Public Services Through Trade
ditatihn
-    Trade and Customs Clearance to be completed within 15
minutes.                                               August



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
D.    Investment Authorization
-    Analysis of turnaround times in investment authorization
from Prime Minister's Office, MIT, and Bank of
Mauritius to assess adherence to one-month target.     August
E.    Overall Project
-    Assessment of trend in EPZ productivity and
competitiveness indices plus share of exports in major
export markets (Europe and USA) compared to 1993 base.   December



Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
Expected
Approximate                                                    Skill       Staff
Dates                       Activity                    Requirements  Weeks
September   Project Launch Mission: (a) Conduct project    Task            8
1994     launch workshop; (b) prepare launch seminars    Manager,
of TDS; (c) review progress in implementation   MSTQ
of quality training provider; (d) review work  Specialist,
program for advanced quality training;       Disbursement
(e) review contracts for market studies of   Officer, and
demand for MSTQ services; (f) issue letter of    Informatics
invitation for drafting long-term strategies and    Specialist
action plans for M,S,T & Q; (g) assess
developments in ETFS, including business and
marketing plan, and training program; (h)
prepare Phase 1 of restructuring investment
authorization; (i) send letters of invitation for
TA and training in productivity indicators,
competitiveness analysis, and industrial
technology development and policy
formulation; 0) review progress in studies by
local staff in modelling and preparing
evaluations of obligations in civil service
pension plan.
December   Supervision Mission: (a) Oversee              Task              3
1994     implementation of TDS; (b) prepare TOR for    Manager
ISO 9000 assessors in areas where MSB
assessors are not qualified; (c) review short-
listed twinning institutions and prepare for
negotiations; (d) review progress in audit and
quality assurance for ETFS; (e) discuss
recommendations of investment authorization
with Government in Phase 2; (f) prepare
seminar on productivity measurement for
corporate management.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
March 1995  Supervision Mission: (a) Review arrangements  Task           69
for study tour to see implementation of ISO  Manager,
9000 and TQM; (b) prepare TOR for Director   Industrial
of National MSTQ Accreditation Scheme;      Economist,
(c) review progress in marketing and business    and
plan for ETFS; (d) review results of TA and  Informatics
training in productivity analysis and       Specialist
competitiveness analysis, and preparation of
new indices and statistics; (e) oversee
preparations in disseminating survey on
industrial technology development; (f) review
progress of local staff in determining present
value of future pension plan obligations.
June 1995   Supervision Mission: (a) Evaluate performance  Task          6
of TDS manager in context of contract renewal;  Manager and
(b) review short-list for Director of National  Pension
MSTQ Accreditation Scheme; (c) prepare to   System
implement Phase 3 of investment authorization;   Specialist
(d) review results of survey on industrial
technology development; (e) review
recommendations of changes to retirement
savings system and other related legislation.
September   Annual ImRlementation Review: (a) Review    Task             12
1995     performance of TDS Management Contractor;    Manager,
(b) review progress in contracting expert  Management
assistance for National Laboratory          Consultant,
Accreditation Scheme and National Calibration   MSTQ
System; (c) review progress in transition from    Specialist,
developing to adopting standards; (d) assess  and
effectiveness of outreach and promotion of  Informatics
quality; (e) prepare for establishment of EDI  Specialist
associations in ETFS.
December   Supervision Mission: (a) Prepare bidding     Task             3
1995     documents for metrology testing              Manager
equipment/supplies; (b) prepare TOR for advice
on ISO 9000 registration for 10 laboratories;
(c) review preparations for implementation of
test equipment/instrumentation maintenance and
repair center.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
April/May   Supervision Mission: (a) Issue tender for    Task              6
1996      metrology testing equipment/supplies;        Manager and
(b) review bidding documents for test        MSTQ
equipment/instrumentation maintenance and    Specialist
repair center; (d) review policies, procedures,
fee schedules, etc. for National Laboratory
Accreditation Scheme and National Calibration
System; (e) prepare for laboratory accreditation
assessor training; (f) review strategic plan and
long-range vision of MSB Standards Council;
and (g) review MSB's 5-year marketing plan.
September   Mid-term Review: (a) Discuss Mid-term report  Task             12
1996      of TDS with MIMT and review performance of    Manager,
TDS Management contractor; (b) assess        Management
developments in quality training program; (c)    Specialist,
review progress in accreditation in technical  MSTQ
areas where MSB assessors are not qualified;  Specialist,
(d) review implementation of twinning        and
arrangement; (e) assess progress in training and  Informatics
awareness service in ETFS; (f) evaluate      Specialist
completed results of Regulatory Reform
component.
1997      Two supervision missions and Annual          Task             15
Implementation Review.                       Manager,
MSTQ
Specialist,
and
Management
Consultant
1998      Two supervision missions and Annual          Task             15
Implementation Review.                       Manager,
MSTQ
Specialist,
and
Management
Consultant



AnnexR 8
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF MAURrIIUS
TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETiTIVENESS PROJECT
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects
I. Background
1.           The TDS component proposed herein is the latest in a growing series of initiatives - not
only in World Bank-funded projects, but also some which are sponsored by other donors or governments
- containing a component with a fuid which subsidizes part of the cost of expert advice to the private
sector. In such approaches, private entrepreneurs are encouraged to take the initiative in utilizing
msnagement and technology expertise to help them become more efficient and competitive, and thus
invest and grow. At first, these funds in less developed countries primarily targeted export-oriented
firms, as part of export development, and replaced the previous model of creating public sector promotion
agencies which, except for rare exceptions, have proven to be ineffective.' More specialized funds
aimed at encouraging technological acquisition have also been adopted by the governments of more
advanced economies, including a number of industrialized countries.
2.            All of these programs - be they in Asia, South America, Africa or Europe, including
those reviewed below, or others sponsored by different donors or governments - recognize the importance
of the entrepreneurs' initiative as a key to success. Rather than offering a predetermined range of
expertise, they leave it to the entrepreneurs to define their needs. Moreover, all of these schemes rely
on the private sector to deliver the services, and insist that the recipients pay a significant portion of the
costs. A number of Bank-financed funds are reviewed below. The TDS has been designed drawing on
the lessons of their success and identified shortcomings, but it should be noted that the TDS is in many
ways a pioneer scheme as it targets technology upgrading in five specific areas: productivity, quality,
design, response times, and technology introduction and adaptation.
H. Selected World Bank Exuerlence
Case 1 - South Asia
Project 1
3.            One of the earliest schemes sponsored by the Bank was a 1985 industrial and export
project which contained two consultancy funds: the Export Marketing Fund and the Productivity Fund,
each of US$10 million. The Export Marketing Fund intended to support engineering products with a high
export potential. Such activities as market research, product adaptation, travel, training and travel to
India by potential buyers would be eligible for a subsidy of up to 50 percent of total costs. The
Productivity Fund targeted firms with export prospects and would finance up to 50 percent of the cost
The failure of public ector agencic and the juacazions and conceptual framework for a private soctor approach, so
a to an,m ownerhip by the tzgeted beneficiaries, are discused in a repozt published by the Econoniic Developmezt
Ihntitut in 1991, by Hogan. Kecaing and Singer, and entitled Xhe Role of Suppori Sernices in E#wnding Man4dhurd
E*" in Dewl*png Cowulas.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
of consultancies in productivity and quality improvement. Individual firms, groups of firms and
engineering associations could apply, and a single project could receive up to US$200,000 in subsidy.
4.           Both funds were managed by banks which maintained a roster of consultants and kept the
permanent staff managing the funds to a minimum. Each fund was supervised by a steering committee
composed of representatives from the Government and the private sector. Perhaps the biggest innovation
was that the approval procedures were kept as simple as possible with much of the authority left to the
management teams. The respective steering committees retained the right to approve proposals involving
more than US$50,000 in the case of the Export Marketing Fund, and more than US$100,000 with the
Productivity Fund.
S.           The project was completed in 1992, two and a half years later than foreseen. During the
start-up phase, the project ran into considerable delays, caused primarily by difficulties in designing
appropriate procedures, finding qualified staff, and government restrictions on obtaining foreign currency
to fund foreign consultants and travel abroad. Once the Government eased these restrictions in mid-1987,
the rate of grant commitment accelerated. In the course of the project both funds relaxed their eligibility
criteria somewhat, which further increased the interest in the project.
6.           By project completion the two funds had financed 359 grants to 292 firms, totalling
US$16 million, which represented a disbursement rate of 80 percent. The project was nonetheless
considered a success. The recipients of the Export Marketing Fund and the Productivity Fund reported
on average an annual export growth of 68 percent and 48 percent, respectively. Both percentages far
exceeded the national average. Other positive effects that were noted among the recipient firms included
an increase in capacity utilization rates, a reduction in rejection rates, and in general, a sharper focus on
the need to improve efficiency and become more responsive to the demands of foreign customers. The
Project Completion Report concluded that this change in thinking could well prove to be of critical
importance to the long-term competitiveness of the recipient firms.
project 2
7.           The experience with the above project was incorporated in the design of the 1989 ongoing
export development project approved in 1989. This project includes four consultancy funds totalling
US$20 million. A wide range of activities is eligible for support of up to 50 percent, provided they form
part of an approved export development plan. An export development plan is expected to cover three
phases: market exploration, product adaptation and sales promotion. Activities eligible for support
include: desk and field market research, product redesign, overseas travel, product inspection services,
training, consultancies and travel to the country by potential buyers. Not more than one export expansion
plan per firm can be financed, and the cumulative grant support cannot exceed US$500,000.
8.           Both banks originally administering the scheme continued to manage one fund, and the
other two funds are managed by two commercial banks. Again, the approval procedures are kept to a
minimum, and each bank is expected to set up a separate internal unit, staffed by a small number of
export development specialists to manage the program.
9.           At the time of this writing, it is not yet clear how well the new project is performing.
Experience has shown that it is difficult to design objective criteria for success for this type of assistance.
Each fund is expected to generate incremental exports of at least ten times the total value of the grant
support. Experience with the first project would indicate that the recipient firms will safely exceed this
target, but these indicators are clearly affected by other factors such as government policies, company



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
management, and general economic conditions, all of which may contribute to improved performance as
well. Nevertheless, the beneficiaries' performance is expected to exceed that of its local competitors.
Case 2 - East Asia
Project I
10.          An export development project, started in 1986, provided on a trial basis US$7.9 million
for an export support fund. This fund was intended to promote non-oil exports by subsidizing four types
of activities: all aspects of export marketing and production management; firm specific training; technical
assistance to organizations servicing the export community; and small equipment purchases. Firms with
export potential and profit-making export organizations could qualify for a subsidy of up to 75 percent
and non-profit organizations for a subsidy of up to 100 percent. Total support for a single proposal could
go as high as US$300,000.
11.          The fund was managed by the Export Support Board (ESB), an autonomous body whose
chairman and a majority of its members would be recruited from the private sector. The ESB was
assisted by a small secretariat, five project officers and two senior technical advisors. The entire staff
was recruited from the private sector and paid private sector-level salaries. The secretariat was to
m-aintain a list of eligible service suppliers and establish a range of acceptable fees. The intention was
that after three years the private sector would be encouraged to take over the management of the fund
on a self-financing basis.
12.          At project completion in 1991, ESB had signed 308 contracts, assisting 186 companies
and 20 export support organizations. This project also experienced considerable delays which were
caused by an application approval process that proved much slower than expected. At project completion,
only 68 percent of the funds originally committed had been disbursed. With simplified approval
procedures and more clearly defined responsibilities, it was reckoned that each project officer could have
concluded an average of four contracts per month compared to their actual monthly rate of 2.5 contracts.
13.          Otherwise, this project was considered to be a success. A sample of recipient firms
reported that the value of their exports had increased 14.3 times the total cost of the assistance.
Consultancies on how to increase productivity, improve product quality and install better accounting
systems were found to be particularly useful. Nevertheless, a majority of the firms interviewed objected
to the idea of having to pay full price for the services, and at project completion it was unclear whether
the scheme could be continued on a self-sustaining basis.
Project 2
14.          Experience with the above was continued in 1989 with a small and medium industrial
enterprise project. This project is essentially a credit program but contains as one of its components a
US$13.6 million consultancy fund. The project targets small and medium-scale manufacturing and agro-
processing enterprises, and the fund supports such activities as feasibility analyses, business plans, loan
applications, market research, production analyses and management audits. The project funds up to 60
percent of the costs with a maximum of US$10,000 per assignment.
15.          The fund is managed by a newly created Technical Assistance Unit (TAU), which is
lodged in a banking development institute which is generally considered to be a strong, autonomous and



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
neutral institution. This unit maintains a roster of approved service suppliers which includes government
institutes, universities, non-governmental organizations and private firms.
16.          As was the case with the other projects, this fund ran into considerable delays at the
outset, and operations did not effectively commence until almost one year after effectiveness. TAU has
been criticized for its low approval rate, sometimes taking as much as 9 months to process an application.
But procedures have been improved, and at the current approval rate of 20 applications per month, it is
expected that the target of 520 interventions will be met by project completion in 1993.
17.          Perhaps not surprisingly, since the consultancy fund is an integral part of a credit project,
most of the consultancies have involved feasibility studies. But following mixed feed-back from the
recipients on the usefulness and value of feasibility studies, TAU has started to emphasiie technical
assistance on other subjects such as marketing, accounting and production management. There are clear
indications that the fund is meeting a pent-up demand since TAU continues to receive requests even
though the credit line has been exhausted. It is expected that a follow-up project would include a
technical assistance component that would be patterned after the current one.
Case 3 - Latin America
18.          In 1990, US$4.8 million technical assistance fund was included as part of a private
enterprise development project. This fund is intended to provide assistance to groups of entrepreneurs
or individual firms and private sector institutions. Grants would finance consulting services, equipment
purchase, study trips, preparation of studies and training programs. Each beneficiary receives a non-
reimbursable contribution of up to 80 percent of the costs of the activity.
19.          Over the three years of the project, the fund plans to assist 450 firms and prepare at least
30 investment profiles. In addition, the fund would organize 80 technical assistance seminars reaching
1600 entrepreneurs; develop publications, training materials and market studies; organize study trips;
provide assistance to private sector institutions that intend to restructure themselves; and provide
management training, in particular to women entrepreneurs.
20.           The Central Bank finances US$1.4 million out of the total budget of US$4.8 million from
the fees it earns on a US$14 million IDA credit line. The balance is funded by a US$2 million loan from
DDA, contributions from beneficiaries totalling US$0.5 million, and the US$0.9 million proceeds from
a surcharge to the users of the credit line.
21.          As was the case with the consultancy funds reviewed above, this fund has been designed
to be demand driven, and to avoid as much as possible the establishment of new bureaucratic structures.
The fund is therefore administered by an existing unit within the central bank. Two long-term
international consultants have been contracted to assess proposals, verify expenditures and administer the
find's financial resources.
22.          Indications are, however, that the institutional location of the fund within the Central Bank
has not been conducive to an efficient operation of the scheme. Preliminary conclusions have also
pointed out the need for good accounting and auditing systems to combat the potential for fraud which
this type of assistance could entail. Although the impact of the assistance has not yet been assessed, the
demand for it is clearly exceeding the available funds, so much so that means are currently being



Anne" 
Page 5 of 6
explored for transferring some of the funds of the credit line, which is experiencing a disappointing
demand, to the technical assistance fund.
Case 4 - Recent African Experience
Prject 1
23.          In 1991 the concept of the consultancy fund was introduced in East Africa as part of an
export development project. This project includes on a pilot basis for two years a US$3.6 million
technical assistance fund, which is patterned after the aforementioned consultancy funds in Asia.
24.          Prior to this project, the Ministry of Commerce ran a program to assist exporters which
included trade fairs, publicity campaigns, information services and training. The program was generally
considered to be ineffective because of budgetary constraints, its bureaucratic orientation and lack of
accountability to the private sector. Moreover, the range of skills that are required to design, produce
and market export quality goods was not available within such a single source, and the private sector was
considered as more effective in providing these services.
25.           Hence, the grant scheme finances the provision of consultancy services from competing
private sector sources. Services that would qualify include market research and exploration, product and
packaging design, product inspection and quality control systems, cost reduction methods, travel, training,
pre-investment studies, and establishing distribution and selling operations in export markets. The fund
subsidizes up to 50 percent of the costs of an agreed-upon, enterprise-level export development program.
It was expected that grants would average US$10,000 and that the fund would support 140 interventions
during the two-year period.
26.          The fund is administered by a two-person staff, and is lodged at a commercial bank. The
Government is expected to contribute US$0.2 million in local operating costs; beneficiaries would
participate for US$1.4 million; and the remainder of US$2 million would be lent to the Government by
BDA.
27.          Although the fund was expected to support 140 interventions during a two-year period,
by August 1992, only four grants had been executed. The fund did experience some difficulties in
establishing appropriate procedures but the delay was primarily caused by the failure of the Government
to implement agreed-upon policy changes to facilitate exports.
Project 2
28.          In late 1992, a private sector assistance project in a West African country proposed a
US$8.9 million consultancy fund. This fund would support private enterprises including service firms
and would finance up to 75 percent of the costs of training and consulting assigmments. Firms would be
eligible for a maximum of two interventions and a cumulative subsidy of US$60,000.
29.          The fund will be administered by a newly created, non-profit professional association of
private business people. The fund would be governed by a board composed of representatives from the
local banks and private sector organizations.



Annex-8
Page 6 of 6
Proiot 3
In 1993, a country in Central Africa set up a Private Sector Support Fund. The PSSF is a
demand-driven market-oriented tool which encourages private entrepreneurs to hire management
consultants with the expertise needed to solve their accounting, marketing, production and other
problems. The PSSF's objective is to strengthen managerial, technical and operating expertise of the
private sector, make it more competitive and encourage it to find investment opportunities, so as to
support sustainable private sector-led economic growth. A secondary objective is to create a competitive
market for quality local consulting services and thereby open new opportunities for the private sector.
Private promoters would select their own qualified consultants and would pay for part of the cost of the
service the rest of which, up to a given ceiling and on a declining basis, would be financed by the Fund.
The fund will share in the cost of securing these services, thus reducing the risks caused by the initial
uncertainty associated with investments by firms in human capital. The PSSF is to be located in a bank
and would have private management.



IBRD 24629
Canonnie~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rr Pointo
MAURITIUS                                                                                                                               JrID_AN
ARTERIAL ROADS                                              Tr, let
* *,   . +   MOTORWAY
OTHER MAIN ROADS
BUILT-UP AREAS
RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
0           OTHER TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                             ton Voon
KILOMUT0R 0  2    0                                                                    YLOUIS
J I                    I                                                            \                                                                \      As
It I(~    i=                                                                                                \                                      I MR
CoE 0         1 2  -\  'M
such \oda pt                                                                           PL Pel
F.y \                                      93
)/                                 5                              /         > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chrol.nd
Srauilloc                                 
KILOMETRS 0       2      4      6       a     10                                                                  1TAtNZANAt                   sryH
Th,. mop h., b-o  pr-p.,ed by Th. World Bonk, eof t ,chit l f.,                                                                      (P. horW  C..* 9-
th. co-sni.-t of rode  ond is f.r th. inte-Il us of Th. World ccea
B-nk Group The dm,,mo-no, uos ed ond the boundorie sh-w   on this                                                                    MADAGRCAl
,nap do not-zply on th. pdoftO Th. World B-1, G-op, ony udg,eniF&                                                                                                            k
on h 191dhrof ony t.,,,try rr ony *ndorr-fn or accepton of                                                                                                   MARTU   It
suth ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR bonor1 993 AtTIS



