Doc~mut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
/yJ7C?_             j /14 s n
Report No. P-6246-MAS
MEMORANIDUM AND RECOM$EIDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IH¶NTIONA  BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$7.7 MILION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MAMRITIUS
FlOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
NAY 2, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6246 MAS
Type: MOP
Tis document bas a restrieted distribufion and maY be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBFIC OF MAURITIUS
ITECHICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENHANCE COMPET IENV PROJECT
IOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Mauritius.
Beneficiaries:       Private Sector Entrepreneurs; Ministries of Finance and Industry & Industrial
Technology; Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB).
Amount:              US$7.7 million.
mrm:                 Repayable in 15 years, including five-year grace, at the standard variable
Interest rate.
Relenlding Terms:    Government passes on US$3.4 million of the Loan to the Mauritius Standards
3ureau and US$3.2 million to the Technology Diffusion Scheme on a grant
basis.
Financing Plan:
_________________       ~(Million  US$)               _ _ _ _
iBDR                       0.52              .  7.18            7.70      58.0
Goverinment                 1.25                1.64            2.89      21.8
Private Sector             0.27                 2.41            2.68      20.2
TofAL                      2.04                 11.23          13.27      100.0
Rate of Retua:          Not Applicable.
Staff AqV&isl Report:   Report No. 12693-MAS.
2X:                     IBRD No. 24629.
Thic document has a resWicted distibution and may be used by teipient only in thoma   oth*r
official dutes Its contents may not otherise be disclosed withou World Bank  zhorra*lon.



MEWMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INERNATIONAL BANK OF RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THEEXECTI VE DIURETORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBUC OF MAURTUS
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSSTANCE TO EMHANCE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Mauritius for US$7.7 million, repayable in 15 years, including five-year grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The project is also being supported with co-financing by the Govement
of Mauritius and private sector operators in Mauritius.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Introduction
2.    Mauritius is one of the developing wor!d's success stories. The country has transformed itself
within two decades from a sugar-dependent economy with a per capita income of USS 400 in 1973 to a
middle-income country with a per capita income of over US$ 3,000 in 1993. Encouraged by this success,
the authorities aspire to make their country an Indian Ocean 'tiger", following in the steps of the Far
Eastern newly industrializing economies (NEs) with strong and equitable growth that is financially and
environmentally sustainable.
3.    To achieve that goal, Muritius has to overcome some constraints that have emerged as a result
of recent domestic structural change and trends in the international economy. On the home front, the
constaints include labor shortage and growing wage pressure; insufficient technological capacity to
compensate for disappearing labor-cost advantage; and social stress from rapid modernization. Externally,
they include uncertainty about market prospects in the post-Uruguay Round era, and stiffer competition in
the world textile market from new low-cost producers. Mauritius has sought Bank assistance for the
design of an appropriate strategy to overcome these constraints. In response, the Bank Is helping Mauritius
fine-tune its economic policies and devise the appropriate mix of investments in human and physical assets
required for tr3nsition to the NIE status.
B. Recent Economic and Social Performance
4.    Soclo-Political Oveaview. Mauritius is an island nation in the Indian Ocean, with a total area of
1,865 sq. km., lying about 800 km east of Madagascar and some 1,800 km off the Kenyan coast. Its
populatior. of 1.1 million is a mosaic of diverse ethnic groups: Hindus (52 percent), Creoles (27 percent),
sub-continent Muslims (17 percent), and Chinese and Franco-Mauritians (4 percent). Tle population is
growing at 0.8 percent p.a. The rate came down from 2 percent in the 1970s, through the combined
effects of a successful family planning program and changing social behavior owing to rapid economic
growth. After four years of ethnic unrest following independence in 1968, Mauritius went on to evolve
into one of the most vibrant multi-party democracies of the developing world.
5.    Mauitus is a country of great ethnic diversity. The various races have interacted harmoniously.
Their sometimes conflicting interests are reconciled through a highly representative political system and
tbrough careful consideration of the views of various groups during the formulation of public policy. The
present government is headed by Sir Aneerood Jugnauth who came to power in 1982, and has had great
success forging and leading successive coalition governments.



-2 -
6.    The resulting political stability and the entrepreneurial spirit of its people enabled Mauritius to take
advantage of favorable external conditions to build a dynamic, export-oriented economy. Social indicators
also improved markedly since independence: life expectancy went from 64 years to 70; infant mortality
declined from 60 per thousand to 20; adult literacy improved from 70 percent to almost 85 percent; and
access to safe water rose from 60 to nearly 100 percent.
7.    Economic Developments. In addition to the stable socio-political environment and reduced
demographic pressures, Mauritius owes its progress to the government's ability to design and successfully
implement economic policies adapted to changing internal and external circumstances. During its first
decade of Independence, Mauritius achieved rapid growth (7 percent annually) based principally on sugar
exports to a buoyant world market. The end of the sugar boom and the second oil-price shock in 1979
reversed the terms of trade and triggered balance-of-payments difficulties. The government initially
attempted to maintain growth by increased public spending and borrowing, thus exacerbating the domestic
and external imbalances. Subsequently, macroeconomic stability and growth were restored, with the
successful implementation of three consecutive IMF-supported stand-by programs and two Bank-supported
structural adjustment programs over the 1980-87 period. These programs were complemented by
aggressive export promotion under an export processing zone (EPZ) scheme.
8.    By the mid-1980s, Mauritius had restored a stable macroeconomic framework and had put firmly
inplace aprivate-sectorbased, outward-looking, and employment-intensivegrowthstrategy. Togetherwith
the country's political stability, abundant and literate labor, and preferential access to the European Union
(EU) and United States (US) markets, this attracted local and foreign (primarily Asian) investment into a
textile industry which expanded output and exports rapidly. Sugar output also continued to rise, fueled by
above-market prices guaranteed Mauritian producers by the Sugar Protocol - an annex of the Lom6
Convention under which African Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) sugar producers are guaranteed preferential
prices for their exports to the EU. Finally, tourism expanded in response to investments and promotional
efforts capitalizing on the island's pleasant weather and unspoiled environment. As a result, the economy
resumed growth at more than 7 percent annually over 1984-88, and real per-capita income rose by about
50 percent.
9.    The renewed strong growth of the mid-to-late 1980s led to virtual fiul employment, bringing to an
end the era of high growth based on abundant and low-priced labor. During 1989-91, Mauritius
experienced lower but still strong growth (5.5 percent) and higher inflation (10.2 percent), compared to
the preceding three years when annual growth and inflation averaged 8 percent and 5 percent, respectively.
Growth remained robust during 1992-93 (average of 6 percent), although inflation continued above normal
levels (average of 8 percent). After large wage increases in 1988/89, the government tightened fiscal
policy to curb aggregate demand. Thus, the fiscal deficit has averaged about 2 percent of GDP annually
during 1990-93. The gap was covered by project-related external financing and limited recourse to bank
financing. As a result of the restraint in aggregate demand, the balance of payments improved after 1990,
with the current account deficit averaging about 2 percent of GDP during 1991-93. A milestone was
passed in 1991 when net export earnings from the EPZ topped those from sugar for the first time.
10.   The private sector has been a major factor in Mauritius' success, having contributed to policy
formulation as well taking the lead in investment and production. On the policy front, a Joint Economic
Committee made up of representatives of all the key sectors has maintained an active dialoguie with public
officials on a wide range of policy issues. In real activity, the private sector accounts for some 70-75
percent of investment, 80 percent of employment and the bulk of the growth and exports. The authorities'
strategy envisages a further increase in the role of the private sector in policy making (through membership



-3 -
in the newly-established National Economic Development Council) and real activity (through the private
provision of public services).
11.   Mauritius has legislated and practiced gender equality. Among other things, this has created a
considerably literate female population (77 percent literacy rate, compared with the sub-Saharan average
of 38 percent) able to participate actively in the expansion of the economy.  At end-1992, women
represented 71 percent of the employment in the EPZ. Efforts are under way to further strengthen the role
of women in the economy, including specific focus on the condition of women in the portfolio of the
Ministry of Family, Welfare and Women's Rights.
12. Poverty Alleviatlon and Social Equity. Mauritius' rapid and labor-based growth has reduced both
poverty and inequality. In 1975, 14 percent of Mauritian households earned incomes amounting to only
one-thWrd of the average household income. By 1992, that proportion had fallen to 11 percent. During
the same period, the share of the least well-off 40 percent of the households in total income increased from
16 percent to 19 percent, while the share of the top 20 percent declined from 48 percent to 42 percent.
Effective government social policies, including direct income transfers to the poor, have complemented the
poverty-auating effects of economic growth and employment expansion.
13.   A3 would be expected, Mauritius' social indicators surpass those of sub-Saharan Africa, and are
somewhat better thar. those for the average lower-middle-income group. The primary school enrollment
ratio Is 106, compared with 70 for sub-Saharan Africa and 100 for the loWer-middle-income group.
Mauritius' infant mortality rate is 20 per thousand as aeainst 177 per thousand for sub-Saharan Africa and
40 per thousand for lower-middle-income countries. Finally, 75-90 percent of Mauriian children are
immunized against the deadly childhood diseases; this compares with 35-40 percent for sub-Saharan Africa
and 70-74 percent for lower-middle-income courtries. Even with these relatively good and improving
standards, Maritius' authorities plan to maintain a clear focus on poverty alleviation in their future policies
(para. 22).
C. External Environment
14.   Owing to its geographical location, Mauritius suffers periodically from tropical cyclones. The
latest of these occred in February 1994, causing two deaths and an estimated US$ 150 million equivalent
of damage to infrastructure and loss of output. The country is also vulnerable to external shocks owing
to the heavy concenation of its exports. in a few products (sugar and textiles accounted for 86 percent of
exports in 1992) and their high dependence on preferential access to the EU (80 percet of total exports)
and US markets. Possible post Uruguay-Round changes in the protocols under which Mauritius exports
sugar (the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention in the case of the EU) and textiles (Multi-Fibre
Arragement - MPA IV) to the two markets create some uncertainty about a large share of domestic
activity and exports. Mauritius' tourism'sector, accounting for 14 percent of export earnings, also depends
heavily on western European markets, which have accounted for more than 40 percent of arrivals over the
past decade. Reforms in the EU's agricultural support policies and in conditions of trade under the MWA
may necessitate adjustments on the part of all exporters of sugar and textiles, including Mauritius. In
addition, the emergence of new low-wage textile producers (such as Vietnam and Bangladesh) put pressure
on Mmarius' competitive position in the intenational markets. Mauritius would be able to weather
exten  shocks more easily If it diversified its production and exports and broke into new markets, and
also generally became more flexible.
15. The authorities have begun taking steps towards that goal. In agriculture, the government is
encouraging diversification by eliminating previous policy bias against non-sugar agriculural products.



- 4 -
They now pay world-market prices for sugar to local producers who exceed their individual quotas, and
have liRe adminis ve restrictions on the export of foodstuffs. Similarly, steps are being taken to
encourage the development of non-textile industry. During 1989-90, measures were taken to lower
protection for maufactured goods considered capable of developing their export potential (electrical goods,
opticals and leather products), and a new institution (Export Processing Zone Development Authority) was
created to support firms seeking new product lines and markets. Additional efforts have begun to develop
Mauritius into an Indian Ocean hub for regional fmancial and shipping services. Offshore banking was
launched in 1989 and a Freeport Authority has been set up and charged with the development of entrepot
services. Moreover, the ptoject proposed in this report is expected to make a significant contribution to
adapting the Muitan economy to a more difficult environment and strengthen its competitiveness.
D. Mauritius' Development Objectives and Policies
16.   Maurltius owes Its success, in a large measure, to superior economic management. Based on past
performance and the early results of the diversification efforts, the authorities are confident in their ability
to formulate and implement policies to overcome the constraints identified in paras. 3 and 14 above. On
that basis, the authorities envision their country at the turn of the cenury as an Indian Ocean 'tiger", able
to achieve continued fast and financially and environmentally sustainable growth, with the benefits shared
equitably by the population. As reflected In the medium-term National Development Plan for 1992-94,
the objective is to attain a real GNP per capita growth rate of about 5 percent annually through the year
2000, making Marithu a high-middle income country within 7-8 years. The government's strategy for
reaching this goal Is to: O) create an enabling environment for private sector-led, exp-n-orlented growth,
to be achieved as the economy moves to a new plateau of performance, based on the production of
increasingly sophisticated goods and services in which competitive advantage rests on productivity, quality
and quick response rather than low labor cost; (ii) continue the fight against poverty and pursue generally
equitable social policies; and Ciii) preserve the environment. The vision and strategy are supported by a
clear view of sources of growth being targeted and the policy and other action agenda to unleash the
potential.
17.   Sources of Future Growth. Over the past five years, the economy has grown at near 6 percent
annually, with the Industrial sector growing at about 7 percent p.a., and other sectors at 5 percent p.a.
Under appropriate condions, there is scope for continued strong growth. In agriculture, there is the
poten   for further growth through higher productivity in sugar and through expanding non-sugar
agriculture (fooderops, fuits, vegetables and flowers). In industry, further growth is possible through
contiued shiRft nlo higher-value clothing, and through expansion into new product lines such as optical
goods, footwear, jewelry, electronics etc. Tourism could also expand further, helped by recent efforts to
develop new markets (Par East, Australasia) and expand duty-free shopping opportuities. Though starting
from a small base, the recent development of offshore banking, the emerging business-sector services
(especially inrmatics), and the projected development of shipping and bulk-breaking services (repackaging
goods Imported In bulk for tsshipment to continental Afica) are also potential sources of fiture growth.
18.   As a member of the ndian Ocean Commission (IOC) and the PreferentW Trade Area (PTA),
Mauits is committed to regional trade and investment, and has generally encouraged the development
of new actvities and markets with a regional dimension, where possible. Since the onset of labor shortage
in 1989, Mauritian ttile producers have opened plants in Madagascar that currendy employ an estimat
3,000 people. Th authorities also look to regional cooperation to achieve economies of scale in areas such
as education, research, trade reprentation, and prevention of marine pollution. In 1992, Mmuritius hostd
the fit meetng of members of the PTA/IOC to begin the preparation of a new initiave to promote intra-
regional trade and investment in east and southern Africa (the Cross-Border Ilnitiative [CBI] being supported



-  -
by the Bank, IMP and the Commission of the European Communities). The Common Action Program
adopted under the CBI offers a framework for further tfr Mauritius progress In this area.
19.   Poicy Agenda. In order to ensure the attainment of the development objectives cited In para. 16
above, the Mauritian authorities plan to pursue a broad policy agenda geared to the following: (i) continued
sound overall economic management, including adapation of the regulatory and incentive systems to
facilitate greater factor mobility; (ii) diversification of production and exports through increased
productivity (made possible by the use of modem technology and human capital development), and
development of new activities; Oii) effective and equitable social policies; and (v) protection of the
environment.
20.   Overall Economic Manaement. Mauritius' authorities recognize the, changes are required In labor
market policies and institutions, as well as in the investment incentive framework in order to Improve
resource allocation. Where the labor market is concerned, it has become evident that regulations and
practices established in the days of high unemployment and greater socio-economic inequality have
contributed to the creation of pockets of redundant labor in the civil service and the sugar sector while
industry, In particular, faces shortages. In addition, the continuation of across-the-board wage setting under
fill employment conditions has hurt some sectors and contributed to double-digit inflation and real
exckange rate appreciation. In the case of investment incentives, the system created by various schemes
has become complex and its continued high differentiation between export and domestic activities delays
the emergence of linkges between the EPZ and non-EPZ sectors. In 1993, a National Pay and
Productivity Council was established and charged with planning the reform of labor market policies and
wage setting. In the same year, an Industrial Expansion Act was passed to initiate the ratlonalization of
the incentive structure by reclassifying the schemes into three categories. Further reform will seek to
reduce differentiation within the categories.
21.   Diversification of Production and Expows. Mauritius' entrepreneus and policy makers alike
recognize that the appropriate response to the labor supply shortage and the stiffening intenational
competition is to raise productivity in existing activities, produce more high-value goods, and develop new
markets. They also are aware that this can only be achieved through upgrading the level of tedmology and
skldls which - given cosant changes in know-how - requires developing the capacity to move to, and
keep up with, international best practice in these areas. This calls for a sttategy geareA at, IE ia: (i)
continued robust levels of foreign direct investment; (ii) institutional arangemets fo. ineal diffusion
of technology; and (iii) reinforced education and training especially n technical and scientific fields.
22.   Social Policies. Although years of accelerated growth have reduced poverty in Mauritius, the
authorities contne to give high priority to a more equitable distribution of the fruits of that growth and
to the alleviation of social problems associated with rapid industrial growth. The latter include rising social
stress and labor disaffection widely blamed on a scarcity of affordable housing, labor-saving appliances and
child care. There is also increased preoccupation with the looming problems of an aging population. In
order to effectively assist the residual poor, the government is revamping its assistance programs with a
view to better targeting transfers to deserving households. Towards alleviating the stress associated with
rapid industrialization, the government has initiated action to provide housing for lower-income households
and encourage more private sector-financed housing for others. It has also reduced duties on household
appliances and is encouraging private investment in child care. These initial steps will be incorporated into
a broader action plan on social issues, to be conceived as an integral part of the policy package for the next
phase of the county's developmet.



-6 -
23.   Protection of the Environment. Mauritius' tourism industry is largely based on the country's
reputation as an unspoiled year-round holiday destination. Seeing the increasing risk of degradation as a
result of rapidly expanding industrial activity and tourism sector, the government launched efforts to
develop a framewo,rk for the preservation of the environment. In 1988, it adopted a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), prepared with Bank support. Next, a multi-year environmental
investment program based on the NEAP was presented to donors in 1989 for financial support. In 1990
the Bank extended a loan for an Environmental Monitoring and Development Project covering the early
phase of the investment program. Given this foundation, the authorities' medium-term objectives are to
strengthen the istitutional capacity to manage environmental protection through guiding new activities and
monitoring existing ones in line with the NiEAP principles.
E. Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
24.   Bank's Assistance Strategy. The objective of the Bank's assistance strategy is to help Mauritius
achieve its long-term vision of development described in para. 16 above. It is based on the strategic
priorities identified jointly with the Mauritian authorities as the key to moving the economy to the desired
new level of performance charactetized by increasing productivity and diversification of production and
exports, within a stable macroeconomic and social framework, and with preservation of the environment.
Accordingly, Bank support will focus on four areas: (i) helping Mauritius fine-tune its economic policies
to improve factor mobility and preserve macroeconomic stability; (ii) supporting actions laying the basis
for further diversification of production and exports; (iii) assisting efforts aimed at continued poverty
alleviation and social equity; (iv) helping implement the program for environmental protection. The
proposed assistance program will use Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and seleive lending to support
the domestic policy and investment required achieve these goals. Bank assistance will also help improve
the quality of Mauritius' pject portfolio and strengthen aid coordination.
25.   In the area of overall economic management, the Bank will help the government to improve its
generally good policies even firther, specificslly to: (i) replace the present system of indexing wages to
anticipated inflation, with a system linked to productivity; (ii) tackle the factor market rigidities, including
reforming the pension system with a view to increasing intersectoral mobility of labor and savings; (iii)
limit the scope of public sector activities by re-examining the role of the state and the public sector in
general, and identifying opportunities for an increased role of the private sector in the delivery of public
goods and services. The main vehicle fcr the delivery of assistance in this area will be ESW. A CEM
(including four background papers on Labor Market, Employment and Wages, Business Regulatory and
Incentive Systems, Pension System Reform, and Social Issues) is under preparation (FY95) in collaboration
with a team of Mauritian counterparts to propose a medium-term agenda on a broad range of issues. In
addition, a Health Sector Review (FY95) and studies under the Education Sector Projecst (approved in
FY93) will propose ways to increase the cost effectiveness and the efficiency of the delivery of health and
education services.
26.   The Bank's strategy in the area of diversification of production and exports is to help Maurtius
upgrade its technological capability, including information technology, and develop infrastructure for
maritime services. In view of this, the Bank has assisted government in preparing a Technology Stratngy
for Competitiveness (FY94) drawing on the experience of NIEs, and studies are under way on investmens
and policies for the development of competitive maritime services. The project recommended in this
report will help implement parts of the technology strategy and refine others. A follow-on Services Sector
Modernization Project (FY97) would finance the implementation of additional elements of the straey,
mainly related to the use information technology to raise efficiency in public and business services. In
addition, the FY96 Higher Edut-ation Project will finance actions to upgrade human skills by reinforcing



-7 -
sdenic ad technologicd  ducation. A port project (FY95) will fiace institutional changes required
to render the port in Port Louis, Mauritius' capital and largest city, more efficient.
27.   In support of continued govertv alleviation and social equity, the CEM and a background paper
on social issues will help the government plan specific actions as an effective complement to continued
rapid growth. Areas being covered include houslng policy to relieve shortages, enhanced access to
education as a way to ensudng greater future equity, and targeting of social assistance. In addition, the
project recommended in this report wfll finance analytical work for a program to deal with the issues of
an aging population, and the Health Sector Review (FY95) will propose policies to improve health services
for the poor. These latter will be implemented under the proposed Health Sector Project (FY97).
28.   In the area of -rronmental ption, the Bank will increase staff support for the implementation
of the NEAP under an Environment Monitoring and Development Project launched in 1991, and by helping
finance In an environmently sound manner the expansion of berthing capacity through the port project
referred to in para. 26. The government and the Bank are considering future cooperation In the area of
eco-tourism.
29.   Eownomic and Sector Work. The Bank's ESW program will focus on providing advice on overall
eoonomic management, factor mobility, productivity increase and diversification of production, and socW
cohesion. The main vehicle for dialogue with the government will be CEMs, on a two-year cycle (one
each In PY95 and FY97). The FY95 CEM will focus on the challenge of sustned growth in a stable
macroeconomic and social environment, and will be accompanied by four background papers dealing with
reform in the labor market, the business regulatory and incentive systems, and the pension system (taking
Into account the aging population), and an analysis of social conditions and poverty. Ihe focus of the
FY97 CEM will be decided on the basis of future developments. Two sector studies are also being carried
out during FY94-95, within the same framework of enhanced efficiency with stability. A Technology
Strategy for Competitiveness meport (FY94) proposes a conceptual approach to upgrade the county's
technological capacity, closely liinked to the human resources development strategy which the Bank is
already supporting; and a Health Sector Review (FY95) will address the quality, coverage, and cost
effectiveness of health services.
30.   Lending. Five projects are proposed for the FY94-98 program, for US$ 20 per capita p.a.,
including in FY94 the project proposed in this report. A Port Project (FY95) would finance the expansion
of port facilities in support of the diversification process (bulk-breaking and regional shipping services);
the Bank's presence would also help provide adequate environmental safeguards. A Services Sector
Modernization Project (FY97) would finance further actions identified in the Technology Strategy for
Competitiveness report to lay the basis for a more developed services sector and the efficient delivery of
public services to the population. A Higher Education Project (FY96), building on the achievemens of
the Education Sector Project (FY93), would assist the development of human capital, with emphasis on
technical and sientific disciplines. A Health Sector Project (FY97) would help Improve the quality of
health services and increase the cost effecdveness of their delivery. The lending program will be reduced
in the event of diminished receptivity to Bank advice and/or significant deterioration in the performance
of the project portfolio.



Policy Goals and Instruments of Country ssistance Strategy. FY94-98
Policy ~oals            Instruments                             -Timetable
A. Continued Sound      -CEMs and Background Papers              PY95; FY97
Overall Economic         -Technology Strategy for Competitiveness  FY94
Managemenlt             -Health Sector Review                    FY95
B. Diversification of    -TA  to Enhance Competitiveness (Project
Production and Exports    proposed in this report)               FY94
(through upgrading      -Higher Education Project                PY96
techology and si)        -Port Project                           FY95
-Services Sector Modernization Project  PY97
C. Continued Alleviation   -CEM and Background Paper on Social Issues  FY95
of Poverty and Social    -Health Sector Review                   PY95
wity                    -Health Sector Project                   PY97
D. Protection of the     -Implementation of NEAP with support of  FY94-98
Ezviromnent              the FY 91 Environmental Monitoring and
Development Project
-Port Ptoject                           FY95
31.   Portfogo Jmpleton. Mauritius' project Implementation has generally matched the hlga
qualiy of Its economic management. However, the initiation dwing FY90-91 of a new generadon of
projects, whose Implementation requires new institutions and closer than usual collaboration between the
public and the private sectors, has led to some delays. These problems are being successfully addressed.
32.   Untl FY92, Muritius' portfolio averaged a *one" rating, making it one of the Bank's strongest.
i the FY92 ARPP, this rating fell to 1.3 and then to 1.5 in FY93 owing to delays in the start-upof fthe
Environmet Monitorig and Development (EMDP), Sugar Energy Development (SEDP) and the
Agricultura Management and Services (AMSP) projects. The EMDP was delayed by lengthy negotiations
for the acquisition of ad for its landfill component; the SEDP was held up by similar negotiations with
a private irvestor on the terms of its sale of the electricity to be produced to the national electricity
comany; ad the ASMP suffered delays because of slow progress on the caton and staffing of Its
Agricultrl Policy Unit and Directorate for Agricultural R,esearch and Extension. These delays were
reflected in a drop in the disbursement factor from 19.2 percent in FY91 to 9 percent in FY92.
33.   Since then, the Bank has adopted a two-pronged strat  to help it meet the demands from more
complex projects. Supevion missions have begun revisiting difficult project components, including
enouragg fresh tripardti consultations on altatives to contested approaches. In addition, startig in
FY94, A     resources for supervision have been raised from under 10 SW per project to 14 SW. These
efforts  e bearing fruit. More specifically, they have helped resolve issues holding up the effectiveness



-9-
of the prjecs and the initaton of their Implementation. As a result, the disburentfactor roso to 19.1
percen In FY93, and b forecat to attain 25 percent in FY94. This would enable Maritlus to regain ts
traditional position as one of the Bank Group's strongest peormers In the area of getting results In the
field.
34.   IFC and MIGA Actvides. The current IFC portfolio In Muritfus consist of investmes in 10
projects in tourim, m  ring, and financial services, for a total of US$ 36.5 millon, of which 20
percent b in equity. With Is market-oriented economy, highly profitable Investment opportnities for
export-oriented activides and tourism, Mauritius provides a good environmt for an even more acvo IFC
role. In 1992, the IPC helped hunch and took shares in a country fund, Mauitius Fund Ltd., of USS19
milLIon which will fSnance foreign private portfolio nvesutnt in Mauritian companies. Apart from
broadening Maurius' eteral capital market contacts, these Investments could also be gn addidonal avoe
for tapping modern technical know-how. The IFC is also examining Investment opportuities in tourism,
informadon technology, and agrlbusines, and is considering requests for assistanc for the establishment
of a buiding society, and, possibly, a venture capital company. Mauritius signed the MIGA Convention
In 1988, radfied it In 1990, and paid in fill its subscription.
35.   The Mauritian project portfolio owes it high quality, to a large extent, to active local participation
in project design and lmpleuetatlon It is part of our strategy to emphasize fiurer this area of the Bank-
Maritius partnership in the future to increase the chances of success of the new generadon of projecs wift
muliple beneficiaries. As a begihning, the project recoended in this report Is based on a straegy
elaborated in concert with the Government and the business community and debated widely withn the
country.
36.   MacroeaonomIc Propects. The likely macroeconomic scenario assumes effctve Implementation
of the policy agenda oudined above. Specifically, It assumes that deregulation reforms will increase factor
mobility, and that a stable macroeconomic framework is mantned. Sector-specific asumptions are as
follows: in agriculture, factor market reforms would raise sugar-sector efficiency wihin the opdmal output
level, and deregulation of the sugar Industry and adequate pricing policies would free cultivable land and
encourage non-sugar agriculture - resulting in an amual sector growth rate of about 3 percent; in industry,
the shi Into higher value-added clothing and non-textile goods would continue, enabling the sector to
sustain its recent anmnal growth rate of 7 percent; In the tertiary sector, the development of Pacific Rim
tourist markets and sevcs would raise the sector's growth rate marginally from 5.5 percent in 1993 to
S.8 percent in 1995-97. Overal GDP growth would thus average about 6 percent p.a. (or 5.2 percent per
capita) through 1998.
37.   The investment/GDP ratio is to remain high, at 29 percent, during 1994-98, wth private investment
in the lead. Public sector wage restrAint and the removal of consumer subsidies should lead to a stronger
public finance posidon, reduced aggregate demand pressure, and lower Iflation (projected to fall to and
remain at 5 percent afte rising to 9 percent in 1993/94 following the general wage Increase). Even
allowing for increased current expenditure on education in line with the projected greater effort on huma
resource development, the current budget should remain healthy and contribute to an increase in domestic
savings from 25 percent in 1992 to an average of 26 percent during 1994-98.
38.   The net exten  capital requirements of the likely scenario (current account deficit plus increase
in reserves) amount to US$ 703 million over 1994-98. Ihis could be covered by expected net disbursement
on project-related loans and grants of US$ 414 million, and net direct foreigp investment of US$ 289
millon (i line with past trends).



-10-
Maritius - Selected Idicators of
Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                              FY91         FY92          FY93         FY94
Porfoldo Perfonnance
No. of Projects under Implementation     5            7             8             7
Average implementation pariod (years)    3            3             3             3
Average rats
Development objectdves          1.0          1.3            1.4          1.4
Overall status                  1.0          1.3            1.5          1.5
Percent of projects rated 3 or 4
Development objectives          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Overall status                  0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Canceled during FY                     0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Disbursement ratio (%)1               19.2          8.6           19.1         25.0
Disbursement lag (%)2                 30.4         27.8          40.8          52.7
Memorandum item: %
completed projects
rated unsatisfactory3                                                           0.0
Portfolio Management
Supervision resources(US$'000)4        329          275           212           294
Average supervision (US$'000)           66           39            26            42
Supervision resources by location (in %)  100       100           100           100
Percent headquarters            100          100           100           100
Percent resident mission        0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Supervision resources by radng category
(TJS$ '000/project)
Projects rated I or 2            66           39            26            42
Projects rated 3 or 4           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Memorandum item: date of last/next CPPR n.a         n.a            n.a          na
tto of disbumenduring the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year invstment project only.
2 Por all projects compsing the Bain's country portfolio, the percentage diffence between actual
cumlative disbursements and the mulative disbursement estimates as given in the Original SAR/PR
Forecast or, if the loan amounts have been modified, in the 'Revised Forecast.' The cuntry portfolio
disbursement lag is effectively th weighted average of disbursment lags for projects compising the
Bank's country portfolio, were the weights used are the respective proect shar in the total cumuatve
disbursment estimae.
3 Forcurmnt FY only: from th OED database.
4Four proect completion reports done in FY91 contibuted to the unusualy hiigh use of pevision
resources.



- 11 -
Mauritius - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
(percent, except where indicated)
1991      1992       1993    1993-97   1998-2002
(estimate)  (average)  (average)
GDP growth rate              4.2        6.3       5.7       5.7        5.8
Debt Service (US$mn)         136        159       144       138        101
Debt Service/Exports         9.4        8.3       7.1       6.0        3.0
IlvestmentlGDP              27.9       28.9      29.1      28.8       31.5
Domestic Savings/GDP        24.0       25.1      25.2      25.0       28.0
National Savings/GDP        26.6       26.7      26.7      26.4       30.0
Government Investment/GDP    4.2        5.0       5.2       5.3        5.2
Private Investment/GDP+     23.7       23.9      23.9      23.5       26.3
Govt Revenue/GDP'           24.1       23.8      22.9      22.0       22.0
Govt Expenditure/GDP        26.0       26.7      24.9      24.1       23.2
Def.(-) or Surpl.(+)/GDP     -1.9      -2.9      -2.0      -2.1       -1.2
Exports GNFS growth rate     4.3        4.4       5.2       4.8        5.8
Imrorts GNFS growth rate    -1.6        3.1        9.0      4.2        4.5
+ Includes parIstat investmens, which do not appear in govement investment.
* Excluding official grants.
Source: Mauritius-Central Statistical Office; Bank Staff Estimates.
39.   Creditworthiness and Bank Exposure. Mauritius is expected to remain creditworthy for Bank
lending during the foreseeable future. Its total external debt outstanding, including, short-term and private
non-guaranteed, was about US$ 1 billion (equivalent to 31.7 percent of GDP) at end-1993. Of this, about
62 percent was held by officia creditors, with multilaterl organizaions accounting for about 26 percent
and bilatr sources accountg for the remainder. Private creditors (including short term) accounted for
38 percent. Debt to the IMP was settled in full in 1992. In 1993, the average terms for debt outstanding
were 16.9 years of maturity, 5.1 years of grace, 6.4 percent interest, and a grant element of 22.1 percent.
40.   At end-1993, the Bank Group (IBRD and IMA) held about 16 percent of Maritius' debt
outstanding and disbursed, down from 24 percent five years earlier. The Bank's exposure in Mauritius
relatve to its exposure in al member countries stood at 0.2 percent at end-1993. During 1993, debt
service to the Bank Group stood at about 22 percent of the country's total debt service. Under the likely
macoeconomic scenario, total debt service as a proportion of exports of goods and services is projected
to decline from 8 percent In 1990-92 to 2 percent in 2002 overall, aLa to the Bank from 2 percent in 1990-
92 to 0.5 percent in 2002. The Bank's exposure in Mauritius has declined due to the relatively stable
balance of payments position and to the country's access to other external resources, including concessional
financing. Ihis trend is expected to continue.
41.   Cooperation with Other Institutions. Apart from the Bank and the IB, the main donors in
Mauritius have been France, the European Union, and the U.K. More recently, some aid has also come
from Arab aid agencies, Japan, and China. As the country's export earnings grew and foreigl reserves



-12-
increased, donon have become more selective in offering sistance. In 1989, official grants declined by
more ta 60 percent, and total net disbursements from long-term loans declined by 42 percent. Since
then, external aid has stabilized at a lower level and has been directed mainly at supporting infrastructure
development.
42.   The BE  played a crucial role in the mid-1980s when it provided financial support to the
adjustment program with three successive stand-by arrangements. Following the successful completion of
the adjustment, the role of the IMF shifted to policy advice in the context of Article IV consultations. The
last Article IV Staff Report (1993) presented, as an overriding priority, the implementation of measures
to facilitate the transition of the economy from a growth path based on the absorption of excess labor to
one based on Increasing labor productivity.
43.   The challenges facing Mauritius require expertise In some fields that may not be available through
standard aid chanels. Inmovative partnerships will have to be forged with foreign universities and
international professional associations and research organizations (in the case of technology) and with
private sector institutions (for capital markets and offshore financial services). The implementation of the
project recommended In this report will require effective collaboration with these non-traditional partners.
F. AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
44.   Emxecudve Directors may wish to focus on the following points:
(a) To help Mritius manage its transition to the next phase of its development, the Bank's
assistance strateg supports the authorities' development priorities of: (i) continued sound economic
mngement; (Ii) diversification of production and exports through increased productivity based on the use
of modern technology and Improved human capital; (iii) continuation of generally equitable social policies;
and (iv) protection of the environment.
*b) The lending program for FY94-98 consists of five projects and averages US$ 20 per capita p.a.
The lending program would be reduced in the event of a lack of receptivity to Bank advice and/or a
significant deterioration In the performance of the portfolio.
(c) Ri*s. Ibere are some political risks ssodated wih the government's willingness to deregulate
the labor market and reforming the wage setting process. The former is required to enable the sugar
plantations to release some redundant labor, especially as they mechanize some operations in order to raise
productivity. The latter would help to reduce overstaffing in the public sector in the medium term and -
in productive sectors - link wage increases to increases in productivity/profitability (pars. 20). As
described in para. 5, in Muritius, important changes in social policy are introduced only after broad
consultation with various groups, thus helping to mitigate this risL
(d) Criteria to evalate progress. The criteria for assessing progress as the basis of continued
Bank astnc at the level proposed will be cotiued satisfictory economic management and effective
implementation of the project portfolio.
G. OPERATIONAL LiNK W1TH THE COUNTRY ASSISIANCE STRATEGY
45.   This Country Asstne Strategy is the first on Mauitius to be discussed by the Executive
Directors. The proposed operation is fully consistent with this Country Assistance Strategy. It would help
Mutus finance activities to achieve diversificadon of production and exports through enhancing the
hin atonl competitiveness of enterprises. Specifically, the project would finace a scheme to promote
the acquisition and diffusion of good technology practices in the private sector; a program to strengthen



- 13 -
the Insdtutions responsible for assisdng entrepreneurs In Improving product quality; a trade fcilitation
system; and expert advice on refoming the pension system and the investment authorizaion process.
PART II. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
46.   Project Bacground.To help enhance competitiveness In the face of stiffer competition In world
markets and attain the five percent GDP growth per capita anually, this project addresses two major
challenges: 0) strengtening technological capacity to ensure that productivity gains exceed real wage
increases, and (1) enhancing flexibility in factor markets to enable labor and savings to flow to their most
efficient uses.
47.   Countries which faced similar challenges but continued to grow rapidly (e.g., Korea, Sinore,
Hong Kong and Taiwan) have devoted attention and resources to promote the efficient and effective use
of technology while they were stil where Mauritius is now. Although the specifics may differ,
fimdamental to all is a competitive enviroment Wvhere, to survive, firms need to improve production
quality and be price-competitive. Such an environment provides the basis for demand for Improved
technology. Yet technology in such countries has also been a central, active conern of government.
Specifically, governments have played a role In encouraging the acquisition and diffusion of technology,
and in providing the basic infrstructure, taining and regulatory framework necessary to improve
productivity and capacities for quick response, enhance product quality, and adapt technology to the local
enviromnent. Experience indicates that striking the right balance between the private sector delivery of
technology-related services and the public provision of the necessary infrastructure has been key to the
success of techology upgrading in these countries.
48.   By industriaized country standards Mauritian firms generally exhibit poor capabilities In
mnanagement methods, production scheduling and quality control. In response to inteadonal maket
ressures and tight domestic labor markets, Mauritian enterprises have sought to enhance their capacity to
compete through the upgrading and mechanniation of a number of production processes. However, the
acquisition of machinery on its own is not proving sufficient for higher productivity: access to know-how
on how best to utilize capital and labor for improved quality and service has become crtical to drmining
competitiveness. While some private sector delivery of technology-related services has started, an active
and competitive market has not yet developed, as high initial leaming costs constitute a significant check
on the demand for, and consequently the delivery of, these services. In addition, the lack of public sector
infrastructure, specificaly in the area of metrology, standards, testing and laboratory accreditation is
inhibiting progress towards enhancing export quality. The absence of support structures required for
enterprises to improve total quality management (rQM) and meet international quality management
standards (ISO 9000) is becoming of particular importance in the general contex of maintaining and
capturing new export markets. In an effort to be responsive, Goverment, in partnership with the private
sector and with support from the Bank, has embarked upon designing a Techwlogy Srategy jor
Compettiess (SQC). The central objective of the TSC is to Improve Mauridus's capacity to compete on
quality and quick response, as well as on price in existing activities, while developing new exports that
meet higher quality and response standards set by the world market.
49.   The strategy emphasizes that for technology support initiatives to succeed in improing
competitiveness: (i) certain regulatory and economic reforms, consistent with the general thrut fr further
libetalization and transparency in Mauritius' 1992 - 1994 National Development Plan, need to be
supported; and (ii) the delivery of public services to the private sector needs to be improved. Reg toy
and economic reform in the areas of trade, labor and fiscal policy are the subject of ongoing discuions
with Government in the context of preparing the Country Economic Memoandum. Cetain key regulaory
and economic reforms requiring technical assistance in their Implementationhave, however, been Identified



- 14 -
under this project. A factor inhibiting the acquisition of foreign technology is the unnecessarily
cumbersome and in many cases discretionary investment authorization procedures which require urgent
reform. Also critical to enhancing Mauritius's competitiveness is the development of a retirement savings
and social security system that allows for increased labor mobility and a stronger financial sector. The
present system is quite sophistcated, running the gamut from a basic social security benefit for all cidzens
to a tax-sheltered arrangement for private savings plans. However, present civil service pension liabilities
are unfunded (being budget-based). Moreover, transfers of benefits to the private sector are not possible,
which, among other reasons, inhibits outward labor mobility from the public sector. Furthermore, if public
sector arrangements remain unchanged, they are expected to become an unsustainable burden on public
finances due, In part, to the ageing population. Reform of the public sector retirement savings plan needs
to be pursued to improve factor mobility and to mobilize long-term savings for productive investment.
50.   With regard to the delivery of public services to the private sector, in certain areas the lack of
application of modern business practices in the public sector results in delays and Inefficiencies which
inhibit the private sector's capacity to respond to international markets. One such key area is general trade
filitation. At present, trade documentation clearance takes between two and four days, involving: an
average of seven agencies in the public and private sectors, principally customs; multiple forms contning
duplicate information; substantial delays in the examiination of merchandise; and time lags between
processing of trade documents and payments of duties. To streamline import and export documentation
the establishment of a new system of electronic trade facilitation is being pursued.
51.   Proect Oblect. The overall objective of the project is to help enhance export competitiveness,
and thereby prospects for sustainable rapid growth, by facilitating private sector access to know-how for
Improved productivity, quality, design and response times, as well as diversification of export production.
The strategy is to develop demand-responsive systems to strengthen the skills and technology infrastructure
and services and to encourage private sector provision of these services. To ensure that these initiatives
lead to tangible and early results, the project would also improve the delivery of certain critical public
sector services to the private sector and support the implementation of regulatory and economic reforms
conducive to the development of a competitive and technology-friendly environment. Productivity increases
and diversificadon of production into new export markets and products would be amongst the monitorable
indicators against which the success of the proposed project would be judged.
52.     l ect DesriSon. The project has four major components. The first component Is assistance
to promote the diSffuon of good technology practices in support of diversification and the upgrading
of production. Technology services to improve productivity, quality, design and quick response are new
to Mitius, and enterprises face a steep learning curve in targeting the appropriate expertise and training
needed to upgrade their production capabilities. To offset learning costs in tl.e initial acquisition of
technology services and to promote technology diffusion through the strong demonstration effects that such
acquisition will have, the project will support over a fixed time period the creation of a Technology
Diffusion Scheme (IDS). The TDS will fund in the form of grants, and on a 50/50 cost sharing basis with
the private sector sponsors, programs involving acquisition of expertise to improve: (i) labor or capital
productivity; (ii) product quality, consistency and reliability; (iii) design in the broad sense, including
aspects such as grading and counter sampling; (iv) response times to client orders and order amendments;
and (v) the introduction of new technologies or techniques in order to diversify or extd a firm's range
of products and services. The scheme will be available to both the industrial and service sectors, with
individual enterprises, private sector groupings and sector organizations being eligible to sponsor programs
under the scheme. To avoid recurrent subsidy of technology services, repeat programs from the same
sponsor will not be eligible for funding under the scheme. Both foreign and domestically-sourced
technology services will qualify under the scheme. The TDS will be administered under a private sector
contract, with provisions to ensure the efficient management of the scheme. The private operator will have
three principal functions: administering disbursement under the scheme, marketing the scheme, and



- 15-
advising potential beneficiaries on possible sources of technology support services. A "Manual of Policies
and Operating Procedures' detailing qualifying criteria and management procedures was diawn up at
appraisal and agreed during negotiations.
53.   The attractiveness of the cost sharing scheme is that it is demand-responsive and promotes private
sector delivery of technology services, while avoiding the creation of heavy public institutional structures.
Current demand for productivity services centers largely on textile and garment manufacturers, both large
and small, in the process of upgzading their production and management structures, but is also beginning
to include new export industries, where local entrepreneurs are seeking foreign expertise to diversify their
productive capacities. The demand for quality services focuses on enhancing total quality management
standards in both services and industry so that they conform to the ISO 9000 standard. In sum, the
proposed scheme would improve access to foreign expertise and best international practice; encourage the
development of new local capabilities to provide such services; and support ongoing initiatives by local
consultants and sector organizations, such as EPZDA (Export Processing Zone Development Authority),
MSB (Mauritius Standards Bureau), SMIDO (Small and Medium Scale Industrial Development
Organization) and private sector groupings such as MCCI (Mauritius Chamber of Commerce and Industry),
and MEPZA (Mauritius Export Processing Zone Association).
54.   The second component Is to strengthen the MSTQ (metrology, standards, testing, quality)
Infrastructure to Improve export quality. In the face of growing international competition, Mauritian
enterprises are coming under increasing pressure to upgrade the quality of their products and/or
demonstrate attainment of quality standards to maintain or capture export markets. This requires the
development of infrastructure and services in metrology and calibration services, standards
development/adoption and implementation, testing and product certification and quality services (designated
MSTQ). Both the private and public sectors have a role to play in the delivery of MSTQ services, and
during appraisal a draft strategy for the development of a National MSTQ system was jointly drawn up
with representatives of the private sector and public officials. The strategy, which was finalized and agreed
to at negotiations, ensures a competitive environment in the provision of MSTQ services, while defining
the metrology, training and accreditation roles of the public sector.
55.   Whereas the TDS will encourage private sector delivery of MSTQ services under this component,
the project will strengthen the Mauritius Standards Bureau (MSB) and support the development of a
National MSTQ Accreditation Council. Private sector representation on the governing councils of these
organizations will ensure that they develop to meet the needs of the productive sectors. Support to the MSB
includes technical assistance and training: (i) to strengthen MSB's role in the establishment of a national
quality system to improve quality management systems in the productive sectors and the means by which
these industries and services can be registered as conforming to relevant international quality standards.
This involves developing capacities in TQM, Statistical Quality Control, and ISO 9000 certification and
accreditation; and quality documentation and auditing; (ii) for management and institutional upgrading,
largely through the preparation and implementation of a twinning arrang-ment with a similar institution
in an industrialized country or NIE; (iii) to strengthen complementary services and supporting facilities
in the areas of metrology, testing and information dissemination; and (iv) to enhance the image and
reputation of Mauritian MSTQ institutions through the training and participation of the MSB Council at
key ISO and International Laboratory Accreditation Conference policy organs. The project will further
support the development of independent laboratory accreditation through the training and the provision of
materials in the establishment of the National MSTQ Accreditation Council.
56.   The third component Improves delivery of public sector services by facilitating trade
procedures to enhance private secior competitiveness. G,overnment has taken initiatives to improve the
trade sector by expediting trade documentation through the establishment of a new electronic trade



16 -
facilitation system. Using trade data bases and electronic data interchange, the electronic trade facilitation
system is intended to expedite export/import approvals from days to minutes, and contribute to improving
the competitiveness of Mauritian exporters. The project will provide technical assistance to help lay the
ground for the new system in the areas of: (a) audit and quality assurance; (b) awareness and training of
all users of the new electronic trade facilitation system; and (c) developing a market and business plan with
clear outcome indicators.
57.   The fourth component provides support In the Implementation of key regulatory and econonic
reforms agreed with the Government in the context of recent sector work. In this regard, the project
would provide technical assistance to: (i) rationalize the investment authorization process, including an
action plan specifying necessary changes to the legal and regulatory framework; and (Hi) review the public
retirement savings system. The objective of restructuring investment authorizations would be to facilitate
the acquisition of technology through minimizing ex-ante approval, eliminating discretionary criteria, and
streamlining core investment authorization procedures, such as residence and work permits. Regarding
the retirement savings system, the project would provide technical assistance for the preparation of an
action plan that would allow for the development of a financially sustainable retirement savings system,
which would improve factor mobility and mobilize long-term savings for productive investment. In the
context of th s component, the project would also provide technical assistance in the development of
competitiveness and productivity indicators to improve access to information that would facilitate both
private sector and public sector investment and policy decisions and strengthen capacities to monitor
industrial development.
58.   Project Flnancintg  IBRD will finance technical assistance, training, equipment and supplies as
follows: Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure (US$3.5 million); Trade Vacilitation (US$0.7 million); and
Regulatory and Economic Reform (US$0.3 million). IBRD will also fund US$3.2 million of foreign and
local costs associated with the Technology Diffusion Scheme. The private sector entrepreneurs will
contribute US$2.7 million to the TDS. GOM will finance expertise, training, equipment, supplies, and
communications in the following components: Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure (US$1.4 million); Trade
Facilitation (US$1.2 million); and Regulatory and Economic Reforms (US$0.3 million).
59.   Project Implementation. The Ministry of Industry & Industrial Technology (MIlT) will have
overall responsibility for the implementation of the TDS and MSTQ components, while the Ministry of
Finance (MoF) will be responsible for the implementation of the trade facilitation component. With regard
to the economic and regulatory reform component, MIIT will be responsible for the investment
authorization, productivity indices and industrial monitoring sub-components, while MoP will oversee
technical assistance related to the review of the retirement savings systems. The TDS will be operated
under private management contract issued by MI1T, ensuring the contractor's independence in the day-to-
day running of the scheme, and providing for reporting procedures to a TDS Supervision Committee which
besides Government will have strong private sector representation to ensure that the scheme is being
implemented in line with TDS objectives. Implementation of the MSTQ for the export quality component
will largely be carried out by MSB, which as a corporate body reports to MNT. MIlT will directly
implement the creation of the National MSTQ Accreditation Council, which, for reasons of conflict of
interest, cannot be executed by NMSB. Under the trade facilitation component, the Ministry of Finance,
which chairs the steering committee for the new electronic trade facilitation system, will rely on strong
cooperation with the new system's project director, the chairpersons of a technical committee and four task
groups for the implementation of the system. The private sector, which is represented in these committees
and task groups, will be key to setting the pace and priorities in the implementation of the new system.
60.   Project Sustainability. The project aims at stimulating a competitive market in technology support
services, and providing infrastructure and a regulatory and economic framework conducive to improving



- 17 -
competitiveness. In promoting cost sharing for technology services over the life of the project (not as a
permanent feature of the Mauritian market), learning costs in the initial acquisition of technology will be
offset, thereby leading to strong demonstration effects and the development of an active market of private
operators for the delivery of technology services. This market will be self-sustaining thereafter. In
improving trade documentation procedures and quality related (MSTQ) infrastructure, the project will help
ensure the efficient delivery of public sector services, while enhancing the long-term competitiveness of
the private sector. Through support for the study and implementation of referms in investment
authorization and the retirement savings system, the project lays the ground for increasing efficiency in the
allocation of resources, which will help improve the country's competitiveness.
61.   Lons from Expriwene. Since the mid-1980s, the Bank has devoted increased attention to how
technology can be financed, as well as to policies, institutions and programs which foster more rapid
technological development. Beyond policy advice, the Bank has financed a series of projects in Korea,
India, Turkey, Mexico and Hungary. There is also a project under preparation in China and work
underway in Indonesia, Pakistan, and Colombia. Based on these experiences of Bank lending for Industrial
Technology Development (ID), project support has been guided by the following lessons learned: (i) get
the incentive environment right, since the incentive framework is a critical determinant of demand for ITD;
(ii) develop a technology culture and infrastructure with the emphasis on acquisition, diffusion and
adaptation of technology rather than on the development of high-tech research and development (R&D)
capacities; (iii) emphasize the role of the private sector in the provision of technology-related services;
(iv) while predominantly driven by demand, the most successful institutions also receive significant
Government support, for which reason trust in the integrity and efficiency of the public sector is a key
element of success; and (v) the technology infrastructure developed should be intimately linked to the needs
of existing production and adapt to its evolving requirements.
62.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed project fits well in the Bank's overall country
assistance strategy which envisages a blend of policy advice and carefully targeted lending operations to
help manage Mauritius's transition to the next stage of development. The Government of Mauritius has
requested Bank technical assistance in designing and implementing a strategy to improve competitiveness
and upgrade production capacities. The Bank undertook substantial sector work jointly with the Mauritians,
and the desig of this project is based on its findings. Much of the proposed project draws on successful
experiences in other Bank countries, as well as on the successes and failures in specific lending operations
in technology development. Apart from strengthening technology support systems, improving general and
technical education is equally important to developing a strong skills and technology culture. The
Mauritian work force has an average schooling of 6.9 years, which is a major constraint in the move
towards technology-based development. The proposed project, therefore, while focusing on facilitating the
acquisition of technology and know-how in the work place, is designed to complement ongoing efforts to:
(a) broaden technical and vocational training (Industrial and Vocational Training Project, Loan 9501-MAS),
and (b) improve the pool of skills arising from secondary education (Education Sector Development
Project, Loan 5927-MAS). Such complementarity ensures the synergy between immediate technology
acquisition and the development of a broader base of skilled human capital. The Government, which is
highly selective when it comes to borrowing IBRD funds, has identified the activities to be financed under
the proposed project as top priority, and values greatly the cooperation with the Bank in carrying out the
sector work that underpins it, and in implementing the project itself.
63.   Agrd Actions. The project is being implemented in the context of the Technology Strategy for
Competitiveness formulated with Government and the private sector over the last year. During appraisal -
through a series of discussions with the private sector, the Chairman of the MSB Council, senior
management of MSB, and MWIT - an MSTQ strategy, defining the relative roles the private and public
sectors are expected to play in the delivery of infrastructure and services, was drafted. This strategy was



- 18-
finalized at negotiations, and has since been adopted by the MSB Council. GovenLment has agreed that the
TDS be carried out In accordance with a "Manual of Policies and Operating Procedures", which was
drawn up at appraisal and finalized at negotiations. The letter of invitation for an independent TDS
Management Contractor was sent out immediately after negotiations. Government further agreed to carry
out and monitor the progress of the project in accordance with the Monitorable Indicators for Physical
Project Implementation and Attainment of Project Objectives and to hold a mid-term review of the project
no later than September 30, 1996. Terms of reference for key first-year technical assistance activities
drafted and discussed at appraisal were fialized following further discussion at negotiations. Conditions
of loan effectiveness include: (i) the appointment of the TDS Management Contractor and the establishment
of the TDS Supervision Committee; and (ii) selection of the quality training provider and the appointment
of the local training organization to execute the national quality system training program. For the National
Quality System subcomponent of the MSTQ component a disbursement condition is: completion of (a)
training programs on quality documentation and internal auditing; (b) tender process for the lead assessor
courses for MSB personnel; (c) tutoring MSB assessors to enable them to qualify for registration; and (d)
TOR for the quality training program.
64.   Environmental Aspects and Project Objectives Categories (POCs-. The project has been
assigned environmental category C as there are no related environmental issues. The project will
contribute to the following objective categories: (a) private sector development; (b) institutional
development, through the strengthening of key public organzations which provide technology and trade
services to the private sector; and (c) improved economic management, through the provision of assistance
on investment authorization and retirement savings system reform.
65.   Beefit. The implementation of a technical assistance project to enhance competitiveness in
Mauritius would improve the prospects for sustainable growth in the country. Full employment and
increasing competition in international markets require technological advancement if the economy is to
continue expanding. Indeed, unless Mauritius succeeds in building a technologically dynamic productive
sector, it risks losing its comparative advantage even in the traditional sectors. Successful implementation
of the project would lead to productivity gains to make possible non-inflationary wage increases and
improvements in Mauritius's standard of living. Finally, investment in new industries would be enhanced
through the reform of investment authorization and the retirement savings systems, with a view to
increasing labor mobility and mobilizing long-term savings.
66.   Riskh. Risks of the project center on its novelty. Intensive skilled human resource deployment
is necessary to ensure success in the development of institutional capacities and to the efficient execution
of all the components. The project has been structured to minimize these risks by decentralizing
implementation to highly motivated agencies. Tbe risk of lack of Government ownership is low.
Government has a consistent record of initiatives to develop a private sector friendly environment and has
actively participated in and pursued the development of this project.
67.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
May 2, 1994
Attachments



-19-
sZc.eA
PROJECT COST SUtMMARY
(in USS '000)
%     % Total
Forgp    Base
Local  Foreign    Total Exchange  Costs
A. Technology Diffusion Scheme
Management Contract                                                   227      223       450       49        4
Technology Service Contracts                                          510    4.590    5,100        90       41
Subtotal Technology Diffusion Scheme                                    737    4,813    5,550        87       45
B. Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure to Inprove Export Quallt
1. Strengthening Mauritlus Standards Burcau
Establishment of National Quality System                            565       687     1,252      55        10
Management and Institutional Uprading                               101       456      557       82         5
Complementary Semvces and Supporting Facilities                     116    2,312    2,428        95        20
Enhancing Image and Reputation ofMaurntian MSTQ Standards             0       176      176       100        1
Subtotal Strengthening Mauritius Standards Bureau                     782    3,631    4,413        82       36
2. Strengthening National MSTQ Accreditation Councll                    6       52        58       89        0
Subtotal Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure to Improve Export Quallty    788    3,683    4,471        82       36
C. Improved Delvery of Public Services through Trade FaciltatIon         76    1,681     1,757       96       14
D. Regulatory and Economic Environment
Restructure Investment Authorization                                    7       52        59       88        0
Retirement Savings Systems Review                                     227      132       359       37        3
Productivity and Competitiveness Analysis                              40       79       119       66         1
Industrial Monitoring and Policy Formulation                            8       36        44       81        1
Subtotal Regulatory and Economic Environment                           282       299      581        51        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                     1,883   10,476   12,359        85      100
Physical Contingencies                                                 69      294       363       81        3
Price Contingencies                                                    85      464       549       85        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                      2,037   11.234   13,271       85       107
ESTIMATED IBRD DISBURSEMENTS
(in USS Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                                                     i199     I199      1227      1998     1999
Annual                                                                0.84     2.67      2.92     1.01     0.26
Cumulative                                                            0.84     3.51      6.43     7.44     7.70



-20-
SCHED1 B
Page I of 2
Sumnary ot Proposed  rmw nt Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Mbethod
A. Goods
Equipet and Supplies                      1.63        0.48 b/      1.01          3.12
(1.63)      (0.32)1/                   (1.95)
B. CXou
Techniea Asssnc                                       3.56 4/      0.65  /       4.21
(2.99) /                  (2.99)
Cot Sb    Technoloy Setvices                          2.68 f/      2.68 fI      5.36
(2.68) f/                 (2.68)
Trining                                               0. 16 4/     0.26g/        0.42
(0.08) /                  (0.08)
C. MDefae
hincenutal Dues/Othe                                               0.16 W        0.16
'.....~~~~~~~~."..,.'.,."..~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ .....
ore Figures i parenthesis are t  respective amounr financed by rERD. Procurement of goods wil be in
accodan  with Wodd Bank Guidelines on Proueme  (May 1992).
IV     N.B.F.: Not a-finaneod
Jncludes US$150,000 in linited Intenaional bidding for highly speciad equipment for which there ar
only a limited number of Intemational suppliers and for which ICB would not be appropriat; and
US$ 326,000 in  oppin for merous small cotacts for materals and supplies below US$50,000.
I/    dIcludes US$150,000 in limited Intationa bidding and US$173,000 in shopping.
d/     Services dsould be selected in accordance with World Bank, Guidelines for Use of Consultants by Wodd
Bak Borrower and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
,2/    Related to PLectr    Trade Facilitation System.
fl     Pridvactor opetors wold obtain tchnical assn  according to commercd  procedur, generally
by direct cont  g where quiy would rema  of paamount impornc.
gI     Related to Estabmn of Natioa Quality System.
h/    lIludesUS$62,000 for iement dues for ful mberip inISO; US$31,000 for communicatiocos
for td faciitatbon; and US$64,000 for 1misaneous expess and supplies for retrement savin
systems rview.



-21 -
Page 2 of 2
MAURlTIUS
Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project
Disbursement Categories and Percentages
(in USS Million)
Loan
Amount al   Percentage Financed
A. Ministry of Finance
1. Equipment and Supplies                                    0.03    100% of Foreign Exchange
2. Consltants' Services and Trainig
Trade Facilitation                                         0.65              100%
Regulatoty and Economic Reform                             0.13              100%
Subtotal Consultants' Serices and Training                   0.78
Subtotal Ministry of Finance                                   0.81
B. Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology
1. Equipment and Supplies                                    1.84    100% of Forep Exchange
2. Consultants' Serices and Training
National Quality System                                    0.71              100%X
Cost Sharing Technology Services                           2.68   100% of Eligible Expenditures
TDS Management Contract                                     0.47             100%
Management and Institutional Upgradi4g,
Complementary Senices and Supporting Facilities;
Enhancing Image and Reputation of Mauritian MSTQ Standards;
MSTQ Accreditation Council; and Regulaoiy and Economic Reform   0.95        100%
Subtotal Consultants' Serices and Tnin                       4.81
Subtotal Ministry of Industry and Industrial Technology        6.65
Unallocated                                                    0.24
Total                                                          7.70
at Loan amounts financed by IBRD.



-22 -
SCHEDULE C
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:       Eighteen months
(O)  Prepared by:                 Government in collaboration with private sector with IBRD
assistance
(c)  Appraisal mission departure:  December 1993
(d)  Negotiations:                March 1994
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1994
TIe proposed project was apptaised in December 1993 by a World Bank mission condsting of: Simon Gray (AF3IB,
Task Manager), Emmau  Akpa (AF3CO, Seior Coury Ecomist), Govindan Nair (AF3IE, Finani
Ec_omist), Mayud Koo (PSD, Industrial Eoomist), Stephn  aull (AP3IM, FPnnial Analyst), Robert
Sc       II, Saior hotion Tehnology Specialist), Andrew Singer ( M eConsultant) and Robert
Tot (MSTQ Consltat). Advice was received from Mr. Carl Dablmanm (PSD), Lead Adviser, James C. Hana
(A3TF), Per Ptevew  and fiom Ms. Elizhb   Adu (LEGAP) and Mr. Paul Vandenheede (LOAAF), Counsel and
Disbutsement Officer, rspecively. Secetal    ort was provided by Mrs. Frangoise Sattn, Speciized Staff
Asssta  (AF3I). Mes   Francisco Agm-casa (AF3DR) and Michael N. Samris (AP3IE) are the Depatment
Detr and the mangng Divisio Chief, respectively.



- 23-
Ann  Al
page 1 of 2
Mauritius - Bank Group Fact Sheet, FY91-97
IBRD/IDA Leading Program FY91-97
Past                Current            Planned'
Category             FY91      FY92   FY93        FY94      FY95  FY96   FY97
Sector (%)2
Agricultre          70.8
Industry & Finance                                100.0                     5C.0
Energy                        73.5
Power
Public Sector Mgt
frastructure                                              100.0
Urban Development
Human Resources               26.5   100.0                         100.0    50.0
Environment           29.2
Minig & other Exctractive
Multisector
TOTAL             100.0   100.0   100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Lending Instrument (%) 0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0       0 0.  0          0.0
Adjustm  Loans3
Specific Investment
Loans & Others       100.0   100.0   100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
TOTAL             100.0   100.0   100.0      100.0     100.0   100.0   100.0
Disbursement (1JS$m)
Adjustment Loansm      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0
Specific Investment
Loans & Others        7.65    4.88   13.90       8.70
Repayments (US$m)    17.73   19.80   22.46       10.76
iterest (US$m)        14.08   12.90   12.00       5.65
1 Ranges that re&Dect the most likely scenario.
2 Por ftue lending, rounded to neare 0 or 5%.
3 Stnucual adjustment loans, sector adjustmet loans, and debt and debt servioe reduction hons.



- 24 -
Annex Al
page 2 of 2
Mauritius - IFC and MIGA Program, FY91-93
FY91         FY92         FY93
IFC approvals (US$m)
Sector (%)
Agribusiness
Capital Markets                                              5.0
Chemicals/Fertilizers
nastructure
Manufacturing                      3.8          10.0
Oiliing
Tourism                            6.2
Trsport                            0.1
TOTAL                     10.1         10.0         5.0
investment Instrument (%)
Loans                              98.0         100.0        0.0
Equity                              2.0           0.0      100.0
Quasi-Equity4                       0.0           0.0        0.0
TOTAL                     100.0        100.0      100.0
MIGA Guarantees (US$m)                 0.0          0.0          0.0
MIGA Commitments (US$m)                0.0          0.0          0.0
4 Jiwodes qVuas q  WMy of bo loan ant equity inu .



-  25 -                                         Annex  A2
Maurit: Pf Po"  IpCEto                                        Page 1 of 2
lndkww                        069U2"                                              AP*        &mm  &
'OVERl
Up       ty am                           ba .                  .                      ..         .           -
H*owA                                  %pf          .                    .. 
Lo pwmpOmlh                             looa1aw.                                                   
dm mz                     .otpc.                                          ..                    .. 
O?4Ppog                                   uss                310        710       2.410        350        1.610      3.820
SHORT TEM WCOME DIWATORS
Umkmeldu,bsnwaws                         oaot                                                      
Uaati _fm                                                      ..         ..    _     .       .      .       -
Cou    pn inex                          1987-100              14         29         149          _           X.
Food                                                          - .                  145          .
SJAL DICATORS
NbioaWallbeaubalosda1movis           %oGOD?                  .. 
amem um"a
Mmy                                  %Iodmdspop.             101        107         106         70         100t
Mal                                        *                105         tOo        102         76         106
Fak                                                          97        106         104         60          98
Motdaity
1hmoaste                              houll"ebkt             65         45          19        104          40         33
Und.e5r    t                                                  ..         ..         25        177          53         40
-.,,,;w.
maw"                                  %s      p               ..         ..         75         40          70
DTr                                        S                  ..         ..        90          35          74
_ui 6t_M5Az (dW3)                                              -          a          24
TOW                                      YOs                 61         64          70         51          67         69
1'MIO l                                  radIo              1.06       10         10          1.6        1.08        1.11
Tow fdUIymt.                         bkdmpww_n               4.8         3.1        2.0         6.4        3.5         2.6
tald  m       rt                     100,000  .b                                     99..
Ppulatpoo  g         rate ratuit f                  oaiofty rate                    Prma   emrolment
(prol)(OtMbiltl)                                                            (pCUt
6+                                      250                                       120+
5                                       200                                       0
4                                                                                  so
150
3                                                                                 60
1o0
2                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40
1                                                                                 20
0                                         0                                         Ol -...Ei, 
mid6Ot    WM670        on                 widEb    mi670.       Mrs                WM*4   ad 70a 
*mm*md



- 26 -                                           Annex A2
Muitu Itoe And E tuwPage 2 of 2
UN& of           3$-N        IS-Z      ,dw        Sa                       huh.d
,rndk-4Wf                 miderm              80-~e5                tber#      A*ic.     L5w~           o
HUMAN RESOURCES75
Fopalton (mre..199)                      thmaunds7                                  1.087    488o93      773,803    632,03
AVe dependey ratio                        rato               0396        0.74       0.52        0397        0.71       0.63
Urban                                    %Cfpp               37.0        43.4       41.0        28.7        5339       72.9
Popultingmwdhmte                         ema%24                           1.5        1.1         3.0         1.7        1.1
Urban                                      *4.5                          t1         2.3         5.0         3.1         2.0
Labor fore.(1I44                        dhresmxb              227        280         449     203.947     302.448    243,141
Aguicltur                             %atlaborfcm              37         31           .           .. 
Jndusby                                     *2S                           25 
Female                                                         20         21          27         -37         32          30
Female per 100 male
Urban                                    membwr-.                                      .          ..
NATURAL RESOURCES
Ame                                    thou..qkm                2          2           2      23.06       23.990      38,94
Densiy                                 PO=. pe q km         406.0       475.0      572.         20.0        31.0        16.0
4&j'tIf  w                        %c lowd ust           54.         61.1       61.1        51.0        41.8        43.9
Chan',wNW*ulurl mAl                      amanal %             1.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         000.1
AgrivAuwl lan under iingatic                                 11.9        13.3        14.9        5.5        126          8.3
Freat and woodland                      ghm     km              1           I          1       6,61        5396%       7.705
Duihreaatuion (net)                                           0.0         0.0         0.0          .
INCOME
Houwehold macome
Shav oftop 20% oIbcusbol               %alfincrna              .         $55.
Shar ofbottion 40% othousdaalds.                                          14          .           .. 
Share ofbotUom 20%ofbauadWAod              a                   .5. 
Food                                     %cfGDP                 ...                  17.0          .
Staple                                                         -.                    4.7          .
Meatk fsh milk, e., eggo ua6m
Cera4mpoet                           da aeLmeltotwn           119         149        210       7,8318     44,418      35.976
Foodaidmi eeals                                                           22           9       277         4,047        366
Foadprodwticpercapita                  197%41"103             129         so          96          94101                 108
Fatilazu'coamini~~~~~acs        kela              243.0      228.0       307.0        14.5       94.2       120.0
Slim  f apouhus mnDP                %otOD-p              13.6       19.2         9.2        29.2         ..89
Havana                                   %OfOD?                 -                    13.7          -
Aveaisbouadholdsizs                 puaoeprbausdad              5                                                
Uiban                                                          S                                              .
FlaInv  --ne.t int                  % 0;ODp                           6.6        4.5.                     . 
Fed aid powr                             %GtOD?                                       2.2
Ene onumonperenpil                  kgcfoilqWv.            160        348         394         100      1I"4         1.701
Households wilbaldomiy
Urban                                %atofhusibck                           
Rura                                                           -                                  -           -
TNM"lt sodODP                                         -          .. "7.6
Find byawant anopost ep4meat                          ~2.6         1.7
Totalrad lengh                              m.-                                     181-
INVESFMENT IN HUMAN CArAL
IHeath.
Aoaeuto hafthcam                         %atpop.
Populatimper nes                                            2,030         du08
PopulaicaperhaWOWtabed                                          ..       300         300       I'm2         509
Aues to sode wate                       %c -(0p                         60.0       100.0        36.7 
Uibw                                                '~~~~~~~100.0  100.0     74.3-
Rural                                                                   22.0       100.0       24.2     
Oral raby4vdyratca1map(under)            %*(cuem.                           -          7          35 
Edmceath
Ore.anouflu ramedo      I
Secondasy                            %ofschoot.apppc           26         39          52          18          56     
Flunals                                    *                  18         33          53          1.4
Pupi'uamcernfati:P&MY                 ppilsperteada            34         26          2 1         39          25
Pupl4midherratir. uamanduy                                     23         31          21                       -
Pupllsuading pads 4                     %ctcdaaet               -         96          9969                     .
Rapeatrmts* pdmuay                    % dtoi a" eae ....
Iltasay                              %c(r  (gSplS+)            39           ..17                  51
Femal                               %of (aoIi- 
N.wawquerbealatl                       parthmeLpop            123          93          6S.-
SOWro Worl BW   Vmnutlum  ES.MA  Depatmeat ApeS 1993



- 27 -
An=e A3
Page 1 of 3
Mauritius - Key Economic Indicators
Aatua                 Emaxed              Precse
Indicator        1989   1990   1991       1992         1993      1994       1995   1996
National accounts (%
GDP at current market
prices)
Gross domestic product  100.0  100.0  100.0    100.0          100.0     100.0     100.0  100.0
Agioulure              9.6   10.2    9.6       9.4           8.5       5.3       8.1    7.7
Industry              28.2   26.9   27.3    27.7            27.7      27.6      29.4   29.8
services              45.9   46.1   47.1      47.4          48.3      52.6      47.9   48.0
Indirect Taxes        16.3   16.8   16.0    15.5            15.5      14.5      14.6  14..S
Total consumption        75.7   77.0   76.0    74.9           74.8       74.6      74.4   74.2
Gross domestic fi        30.7   30.4   27.9    28.9           29.1       30.1      28.6   29.0
investment
Government investment  3.9    4.3    4.2       5.1           5.2       5.3       5.4    5.4
Private invetment     26.8   26.1   23.7    23.8            23.9      24.9      23.2   23.6
(includes increases in
stocks)
Expors (GNFS)b           66.2   67.4   65.2    62.7           61.0       62.0      66.2   68.0
finporb (GNPS)P          73.8   74.8   69.1      65.6         65.2       66.7      69.1   71.2
Gross domestic svings    24.3   23.0   24.0    25.1           25.2       25.4      25.6   25.8
Gross national uvingse   26.8   26.2   26.6    26.7           26.7       26.5      26.7   26.9
Memnorandu items
Gross domestic product  2116   2559   2616       2965         3238       3428      3634   3838
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product   2150   2320   2440      2740         3089       3320      3482   364
capita (USS Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987
pric)
Gross domestic product  4.6    7.2    4.1      6.3          5.6        6.1       5.8    5.6
at market prices
Gros domestic income   8.7    4.8    4.1       6.2           6.7       6.4       5.9    5.3
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, eialaod
from 1987 pnces)
Grss domestic product  3.8    6.4    3.3       5.5          4.4        5.3       5.0    4.9
at market prices
Total consumption      5.8    4.4    2.7       8.1           3.2       6.5       5.5    S.3
Private consumption    6.4    4.2    2.7       6.9           3.2       6.7       5.6    5.3



- 28 -
Annex A3
Page 2 of 3
Mauritdus - Key Economdc Indicators
(Connued)
Ataual                Etimated             Projeaed
Indictor          1989   1990   1991   1992           1993       1994      1995   1996
Balae of Payments
(US$M)
Expors (GNFSp)           1401   1724   1780   1931            2034      2128       2405   2609
Moferandise f.o.b.     994   1206   1214   1292            1375       1471      1601   1750
Impors (GNFS)b           1561   1915   1887   2011            2136      2291       2513   2733
Mechndise f.o.b.      1194   1465   1413   1466            1484       1541      1707   1869
Resoure balance          -160   -191   -107    -80            -102       -163      -107   -124
Netouret tmrasfer          77      84      73      1S           25        42         42     42
('inoludin official curret
usnsfersT
Cutrn account balanee     -87    -92       -5     38           -64       -122       -64    -80
(after officil capital granh)
NetpnvaWeforeigndirec      36      41      19      15           48        51         54     58
investment
Long,term loas(net)        47      98      84      5            23        19         28      33
Offcial                  12      54     48    -15             -4        -17       -18    -19
Private                  35      44     36      20            27        36         46     52
O5her capid (net, including  150    184    91    -12            45       132         57     58
erors and omnsuons)
Change in reservet       -146   -232   -189    -46             -60        -80       -75    -69
Memcrandm ites
Resource balance (% of    -9.9  -11.2   -4.8   -4.9           -3.3       -4.7      -3.0   -3.2
GDP at curret mirke
prices)
Red annual growth raes
(1987 pricesj
Merchandie exports    16.3   14.6    5.1    6.1             6.0        3.7       5.6    6.0
(f.o.b.)
PrMaiy              16.6    3.0    3.2    5.5           -0.5       -0.7       3.5    3.1
Manufacutur         16.1   21.4    6.1    6.4            9.5        5.9       6.6    7.2
Merhandis import      16.4   12.4    0.6    2.4             5.7        4.2       7.7    6.4
(C.Lf.)
Public rinance
(% of GDP at current
market prices)*
Current rvenues          24.4   24.4   24.1   23.8            22.9      22.0       22.0   22.0
Current expendturs       22.1   21.9   21.2   21.1            19.7       18.5      17.9   17.0
Currnat account surplus (+)  2.3    2.S    2.8    2.7          3.2        3.5       4.1    5.0
or deficit (-
Capital expenditures      6.2    5.0    4.8    5.6             5.2        5.3       5.3    5.4
Portign financing        -1.5   -0.5   -0.7   -0.7            -0.5        0.4       0.3    0.1
Domestic financing        5.5    3.1    2.7    3.6             2.5        1.4       0.9    0.3



- 29 -
Annex A3
Page 3 of 3
Mauritius - Key Economkc Indicators
(Cotnued)
Aaual                 Etilmated            Projeded
Indicator         1989   1990   1991   1992           1993       1994      1995   1996
Monetary Indicators
M2WODP (at ourrnt nuudxk  0.6    0.6    0.7    0.7             0.7       0.7        0.7    0.7
prim)
Growth raw of M2(%)      14.7   20.5   22.6   16.8            17.0       17.5      15.5   12.0
PRivae sectoro ei       171.2  128.7   66.0  136.8           149.2      123.8     100.0  100.0
rowth/Ao  crdit growth
Price indices (1987=100)
Mcchaadiws exportpnc    107.7  110.0  111.1  112.5           113.2      117.9     122.4  126.2
Meohundisnimpoztpric.    105.9  111.S   112.9  114.5         114.3      118.7     122.8  127.2
idex
Merchadie terms of trade    101.8   98.6   98.5   98.3        99.0      99.4       99.6   99.2
index
Redl excha  rate         95.4  103.2  101.7  104.3           100.5      100.0     100.0  100.0
Ral internd a            13.1   16.3   68.4   83.9            24.2      24.2       24.2   24.0
consumer pno index(%     12.6   13.5    7.0    4.6             8.0       11.0      10.0    8.0
- wath r
GDP deflator (% growth   10.9   10.2    7.9    4.7             7.5      10.5        9.9    7.6
rte)
Note: - indicas da not available
a. GDP components esima  at faictor cost
b.  OGNFSD  dnotes 'pods and non-facto senvices'.
c. Ilcludos net unrquited tnfer excuding official capital gras.
d. Includes use of IMP rsources
e. Budgetay Ctl Govenmnt for 1989, and Consolidated Ctl Govaement for 1990-1994.
f.  LCU' denote 'local currency units. An inces  in USSILCU denotes apprciaion.
Source: Mxuritius: Central Statistical Office; Bank Staff Estimat



- 30 -
Amnex A4
Mauritius - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                 Estimated             Projected
Indicator           1989    1990    1991    1992           1993       1994       1995    1996
Total debt outstanding and     835     946     991     959           980         994       1022    1054
disbursed (TDO) (USImp
Net diabursements (US$m)'       10      55      45       -8           27          19         29      34
Total debt service (DS)        143     153     169     147            146        143        146     160
(US$mr
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                   57.7    53.1    56.9    50.1           48.2       47.0       42.5    40.4
TDO/GDP                    40.0    37.6    37.0    31.3           30.1       28.9       30.4    27.6
TDS/XGSb                    9.9     8.6     9.4      7.6           7.8        6.7        6.1     6.1
Conceasional/rDO           31.9    37.7    39.3    37.1           39.5       41.1       42.4    43.6
JBRD exposure indicator. (O
IBRD DS/public DS          33.7    38.9    32.0    40.2           44.4       47.1       46.4    47.7
Preferred creditor DS/public    47.7    53.2    47.0    65.9     65.3        67.1       65.2    70.7
DS
IBRD DS,XGSb                2.0     1.7     1.8      1.7           1.6        1.6        1.4     1.2
IBRD postfolio ahame        0.2     0.2     0.1     0.1            0.1        0.1        0.1     0.1
IWC (USSm)                      0      3.6    10.1    15.0              -          -          -       -
Ioans                        0      2.6     9.9    10.0
Equity sad Quuai-equi4       0      1.0     0.2     5.0
MIGA
MlGAguamantes (USSm)          0       0       0       0
a. Includae public and publicly guaanteed debt, private nonguaranteed debt, use of IMF credits, and net short-term capital
b. *XGS dnaotc export of goods and services, including workrs' remittances.
c. Includas equity and quasi-equit types of both loan and equity instruments.
Source: Mauritius: Centrd SUtscal Office; Bank Staff Estimate



- 31 -
Annex AS
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritius
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(as of January 30, 1994)
Amount in USS million       Last ARPP
(los anelatim)          Supsvison Ratinp
Loan or    Fusal Borrower    Purpose      RD     IDA    Undisbuned  Development  Oval
Cit No.  Year                                             reatve is   Objectves   Statu
appraisal
projecto
mn peret)
3132-0    1990  Gov.    Transport    30.00                37.5%        1          1
3277-0    1991  Gov.    E              12.37     -        40.6%        2          1
3333-0    1991  Gov.    Agriculture   10.00      -        100.0%       2          2
3401-0    1992  Gov.    Education       5.40     -         87.5%       1          2
3458-0    1992  Gov.    Energy         15.00     -        100.0%       2          2
3578-0    1993  Gov.    Education     20.00      -         0.0%        1          1
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)         US$ 311.42 million
Of which has bem repaid          US$ 126.13 million
Total now held by IBRD and IMA         US$ 205.3 million
Amount sold                            USS 4.95 million
Of which repaid                  US$ 4.95 million
Total undisbursed                      USS 67.47 million



-32-
Annex AS
Page 2 of 3
MAURMTIUS - Statement of IFC Investments
(as of December 31, 1993)
Amount in US$ million
Fiscal      Obligator            Business        Loan         Equity        Total
Year
1981        Rogers              Tourism            1.8          0.0          1.8
1987        Socota Mills        Textile            5.0          1.0          6.0
1990        Saxon Properties    Tourism            2.6          1.0          3.6
1991        CSL                Iron & Steel        0.5          0.2          0.7
1991        Haulage (AEF)       Transport          0.1          0.0          0.1
1991        Dinarobin           Tourism            6.0          0.0          6.0
1991        Big Game            Tourism            . 2          0.0          0.2
1991        Textile Industries  Textile            3.1          0.0          3.1
1992        MCB-AL              Capital Market     10.0         0.0         10.0
1993        Mauritius Fund      Capital Market     0.0          5.0          5.0
Total gross commitments                      US$ 36.5 million
Total commitments now held by IFC            US$28.1 million
Total undisbursed (including participant's portion)    US$ 12 million



-33-
Annex A5
Page 3 of 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT STATUS
Mauritius's implemeion performance in its investment operations has traditionally matched the
high quality of Its economic mangement. However, there has been some deterioration in performance over
the last two years. Ihe focus of new operations has become directed towards more difficult institutional
goals, often requirng for their achievement the cooperation of various interest groups. For example, the
preparation of the lndustrial and Vocational Training Project was 810w as it required close cooperation
between the Government and the private sector. The under-implementation of the Environmen
Monitoring Project (EMDP) was primarily due to protracted negotiations over land earmarked for use of
ldfilll, and delays In finalizig the framework for environmental safeguards, the National Physical
Development Plan (NPDP). These problems have been resolved and the project has since regained
momentum. The Agricultural Magement and Services Project (AMSP) has also suffered delays because
of slow progress on the creation and staffing of the Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit and the Directorate
for Research and Extension. The Sugar Energy Development Project (SEDP), which has a financial plan
dependen on exteral and private financing sources, has finally been declared effectve after an eighteen-
month delay. Te key implemeIon problem of the Mauritian portfolio is therefore delays in start up.
A special effort has been made to Intensify supervision. This policy has already produced positive results
In the cases of EMDP and SEDP, and will contnue to be pursued In the immediate future.



lRD 24629
MAURITIUS
-,ARTEI ROADS                                     .       a       /
*..~e ~  MOTORWAY
OTHER MAIN ROAM                     ( X               S         \os              &i
BUILT-UP ARAS
0       OTHER TOWNS AND VIUOM
INDIAN                                          0      o 
OCEAN                                            ad. /
Ml~~~~~~~~~~lw
lp               ~~~~INDIAN
OCEAN
01    T>                                                     ZW   \\SAW .
lOUMElI O   2   4    6    6   10
I IS- I I  
MAOS   1  2   3   4 
STe ca.sne of           41 \l The 
,aodie 'astel :hWrd   Ws
an g!Ahi ea lls ofay  asyc  aiorsna4sw   or = .f"A                                                                AJWI
r  - b o      --r o      !                                                |  o   o  s        '    *                  t
mmWR 1993



