Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3736 MAS
                              Loan Agreement
         (Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated July 1, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3736 MAS
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 1, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
      (b)   "MIIT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Industrial
Technology;
      (c)   "MSB" means the Mauritius Standards Bureau established pursuant
to the Mauritius Standards Bureau Act, No. 12 of 1993;
      (d)   "Standards Council" means the council established under the
Mauritius Standards Bureau Act, No. 12 of 1993 to administer MSB;
      (e)   "MSTQ" means metrology, standards, testing, quality;
      (f)   "MSTQ Strategy" means the strategy adopted by the Standards
Council on April 14, 1994, that defines the relative roles of the public and
private sectors in the delivery of MSTQ infra- structure and services and
provides an enabling regulatory framework for the delivery of these
services;
      (g)   "ISO 9000" means the series of international quality management
standards issued by the International Organization for Standardization;
      (h)   "Electronic Trade Facilitation System or ETFS" means the network
to process trade documentation to be implemented under the Project;
      (i)   "CSO" means the Borrower's Central Statistical Office;
      (j)   "TDS" means the Technology Diffusion Scheme referred to in Part
A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (k)   "Manual of Policies and Procedures" means the Manual of Policies
and Operating Procedures governing the operation of the TDS;
      (l)   "TDS Management Contractor" means the consultants appointed by
the Borrower to manage the TDS;
      (m)   "Eligible Firm" means a firm in any productive sector with at
least 51% of its equity privately owned;
      (n)   "Monitorable Indicators" means the monitorable indicators for
measuring project implementation agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
and
      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
seven million seven hundred thousand dollars ($7,700,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the
Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Page  3
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B, D.1 and D.3
the Project, open and maintain in dollars, a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
            amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
            at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
            Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
            specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
            pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
            the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
            Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
Page  4
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
            calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, D.1 and D.3 of the Project through
MIIT and Parts C and D.2 of the Project through MOF, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and technology practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and, except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Parts A, B, D.1 and
D.3 of the Project: (a) open and maintain until completion of the Project,
an account in the name of MIIT; (b) deposit into said account, on a
quarterly basis, such funds as are required by MIIT for the implementation
of said Parts of the Project; and (c) ensure that at all times there are
adequate funds in said account to meet expenditures incurred for said Parts
of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing prin- ciples
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
Page  5
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that the MSTQ Strategy has been amended in such a manner as to
adversely affect the implementation of the Project; and
      (b)   the Manual of Policies and Operating Procedures has been amended
or waived so as to materially and adversely affect the implementation of the
TDS Scheme.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that any event
specified in Section 5.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has established the TDS Supervision Committee
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has appointed the TDS Management Contractor
referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the Borrower has selected the quality training provider and
appointed an appropriate local training organization to undertake the
National Quality System training program referred in paragraph 11 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Page  6
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Government House
            Port Louis
            Mauritius
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                    4249 EXTERN IW
                  Port Louis
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
                        By /s/ A. P. Neewoor
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated          % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Parts A, B, D.1 and
D.3 of the Project
(1)       Consultants'
Page  7
          services and
          training:
          (a) for Part A
              of the Project:
              (i)  TDS Manage-         470,000      100%
                   ment Contract
             (ii)  Matching          2,680,000      100% of eligible
                   Grants                           expenditures
          (b) for Part B.1             710,000      100%
              of the Project
          (c) for Parts B.2-5,         950,000      100%
              D.1 and D.3 of
              the Project
(2)       Equipment and              1,840,000      100% of foreign
          supplies                                  expenditures
Parts C and D.2 of
the Project
(3)     Consultants'                   780,000       100%
    services and
    training
(4)     Equipment and                  30,000        100% of foreign
    supplies                                         expenditures
(5)     Unallocated                   240,000
                                    _________
        TOTAL                       7,700,000
                                    =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means with respect to Category
(1) (a) (ii) expenditures of up to 50% for the cost of technology services.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
    (b)   payments for expenditures under Category (1) (b) until the
Borrower has completed: (i) the training program on quality documentation
and internal auditing; (ii) the tender process for lead assessor courses for
MSB personnel; (iii) the training of MSB assessors to enable them to qualify
for registration; and (iv) the terms of reference for the quality training
curriculum.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
goods and services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to help enhance export competitiveness
and thereby prospects for sustainable rapid growth by facilitating private
Page  8
sector access to know-how for improved productivity, quality, design and
response times, as well as diversification of export production.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Diffusion of Good Technology Practices
    Promotion of the diffusion of good technology practices through a
Technology Diffusion Scheme, which shall provide 50/50 matching grants
towards the cost of programs to improve the private sector's access to
productivity, quality and design services, and to information on new
technologies.
Part B:   Strengthening MSTQ Infrastructure
1.  Establishment of a National Quality System through, inter alia, (a) the
development and implementation of a general and comprehensive quality
training program for senior trainers, (b) the provision of training programs
on quality documentation and internal auditing for industry personnel and
of lead assessor courses for MSB and industry personnel, (c) provision of
specialized training to MSB staff in ISO 9000 assessment and certification,
and (d) the launching and execution of a general quality outreach and
promotion campaign.
2.  Management and institutional upgrading through, inter alia, a twinning
arrangement with a standards body to assist MSB to: (a) plan strategically,
(b) market its services effectively, and (c) manage the transition from
developing national standards to adopting international standards.
3.  Strengthening MSB's testing, metrology and information services through,
(a) the provision of training and acquisition of equipment for testing; (b)
provision of training and acquisition of equipment for metrology with a
view, inter alia, to establishing an effective National Calibration System;
(c) development of a small test equipment/instrumentation and repair center;
and (d) acquisition and maintenance of a bibliographic database on
standards.
4.  Enhancement of the image and reputation of Mauritian MSTQ Institutions,
through advice to the Standards Council.
5.  Development of independent laboratory accreditation under the MSTQ
National Accreditation Council through: (a) advise for the development of
such council; and (b) training of assessors for laboratory accreditation.
Part C:   Trade Facilitation
Implementation of the Electronic Trade Facilitation System
    Assisting the National Computer Board, and/or any other agency
designated by MOF, in playing a catalytic role to facilitate adoption of the
Electronic Trade Facilitation System.
Part D:   Economic and Regulatory Reforms
1.  Carrying out a review and restructuring of industrial investment
authorization processes, through the clearer definition of investment
authorization criteria and streamlining of core investment authorization
procedures.
2.  Carrying out a review of the actuarial basis and funding requirements
for retirement savings systems.
3.  Development of productivity and competitiveness indicators and improving
the monitoring of industrial development, through assistance to MIIT and CSO
and strengthening MIIT's industrial monitoring and policy formulation
capacity.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
Page  9
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                    (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
    beginning February 1, 2000
    through February 1, 2009             385,000
and on August 1, 2009                    385,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                   Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                   by:
Not more than three years                0.18
    before maturity
More than three years but                0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                  0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not               0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
Page  10
More than 15 years before                1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other international recognized standards forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mauritius may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$173,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.  Items or groups of items for specialized equipment required for the test
equipment/instrumentation maintenance and repair center under Part B.3 of
the Project, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $150,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  11
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  (a)   MIIT shall have overall responsibility for the implementation of
Parts A and B of the Project, as well as Parts D.1 and 3.
    (b)   MOF shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts C and D.2
of the Project.
    (c)   Both MIIT and MOF shall nominate qualified and experienced Project
Coordinators, in consultation with the Bank.
2.  The Borrower and the Bank shall jointly organize, no later than three
months after the Effectiveness Date, a Project Launch Workshop to
familiarize key officials of all agencies participating in the Project, on
important aspects of the Project, including procurement and disbursement
procedures.
3.  The Borrower shall by March 31 in each year carry out with the Bank, a
Project implementation review. Such reviews shall monitor overall Project
execution with regard to the Monitorable Indicators, update the Project,
timetable and identify implementation issues and develop appropriate solutions.
4.  (a)   The Borrower shall not later than September 30, 1996, carry out
jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the Project. Such review shall,
inter alia, focus on (i) overall project performance against key monitorable
performance indicators, (ii) an assessment of Project sustainability, (iii)
an evaluation of the performance of consultants under the Project, (iv) a
review of the organizational changes recommended for investment
authorization, (v) an evaluation of progress on actions with regard to the
retirement savings systems, (vi) an evaluation of the progress of the TDS
and the strengthening of the MSTQ infrastructure, and (vii) an evalua- tion
of progress made on the Electronic Trade Facilitation System.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, three months prior to such review, prepare and
furnish to the Bank the reports needed to undertake said review.
    (c)   Promptly after the completion of the mid-term review referred to
above, the Borrower shall take all necessary actions to implement the
recommendations emanating from such review.
Page  12
5.  The Borrower shall carry out and monitor the effective implementation
of the Project in accordance with the Monitorable Indicators.
Part A of the Project: TDS
6.  (a)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the
Project, a TDS Supervision Committee which shall, inter alia, approve grant
applications above $50,000 equivalent, and facilitate the various approvals,
including work and residence permits required for firms to utilize external
expertise.
    (b)   The TDS Supervision Committee shall comprise repre- sentatives
from the Prime Minister's Office, MOF, MIIT, JEC, Mauritius Chamber of
Commerce and Industry and Mauritius Export Processing Zone Association. The
TDS Supervision Committee shall be chaired by the representative from MIIT.
7.  (a)   The Borrower shall, (i) for purposes of the imple- mentation of
the TDS, open and maintain, until completion of the Project, an account, and
(ii) deposit into such account such funds as are required for the
implementation of the TDS.
    (b)   The Borrower shall appoint and maintain until completion of the
TDS, the TDS Management Contractor to undertake the day-to-day
administration of the TDS, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
8.  The TDS shall fund programs involving training or acquisition of
expertise in the following areas: (i) improve productivity, (ii) enhance
product quality, (iii) strengthening design capacities, (iv) improve
response times to clients orders, and (v) introduce new technologies and
techniques.
9.  The Borrower shall ensure that the TDS is carried out in accordance with
the Manual of Policies and Operating Procedures, approved by the Bank, which
shall, inter alia provide that:
    (a)   assistance shall be in the form of 50/50 cost sharing grants to
Eligible Firms;
    (b)   except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
maximum grant support to an Eligible Firm shall be limited to $100,000;
    (c)   the following activities shall be eligible:
          (i)   labor or capital productivity, or the productive use of raw
                materials, so as to reduce the cost per unit of output;
         (ii)   product quality, uniformity, and reliability;
        (iii)   product design, including aspects such as grading, counter-
                sampling, packaging design, and modifications to buyers'
                designs;
         (iv)   improved response times to client orders and order
                amendments; and
          (v)   the introduction and adaption of new technologies, in order
                to diversify or extend a firm's range of saleable
                products/services;
    (d)   eligible expenditures shall include service fees, plus travel and
incidental expenses, incurred wholly and exclusively on a eligible activity.
10.       TDS Grants shall be made on terms whereby the TDS Management
Contractor shall obtain, by written contract with the Eligible Firm, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including
to the extent appropriate, the right to:
    (a)   require the Eligible Firm to carry out the services with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
Page  13
    (b)   require that: (i) the services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan be secured at a reasonable cost, account being taken of the time
of delivery, efficiency, their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them; and (ii) such services shall be used exclusively in carrying
out the purposes of the Grant;
    (c)   require that the first five contracts be furnished to the Bank
prior to their award, and the remaining contracts to the Bank after their
award.
    (d)   require for each eligible activity that the Eligible Firm define
a "deliverable" to enable verification of the activities;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Borrower and the Bank shall
reasonably request relating to the services financed by the Grant; and
    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Firm to use the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Eligible Firm to perform its
obligations under its agreement with the TDS Management Contractor.
Part B.1 of the Project
11.       MSB shall oversee and coordinate the National Quality System
training program. MSB staff shall provide specialized training in such areas
as metrology and calibration. In order to assist MSB, the Borrower shall,
in consultation with the Bank, appoint a quality training provider and an
appropriate local training organization to carry out the program.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B, D.1 and
D.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means amounts equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
Page  14
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Parts A, B, D.1 and D.3 of the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
