Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22592-MAS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.81 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY PROJECT
NOVEMBER 9,2001
Financial Sector
Country Department 8
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2001)
Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (MUR)
MU 1 = US$0.03
US$1 = MU 30.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARPA                 Australian Prudential Authority
BIS                 Basel International Committee for Banking Supervision
BOM                 Bank of Mauritius
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
FATF                Financial Sector Action Task Force
FSAP                Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSC                 Financial Sector Commission
FSIS                 Financial Sector Infrastructure Project
GNP                  Gross National Product
IAIS                International Association of Insurance Supervisors
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
IOSCO               International Organization of Securities Commissions
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
MACS                Mauritius Automated Clearance and Settlement System
MEDFSCA             Ministry of Economic Development, Financial Services and Corporate Affairs
MOBAA               Mauritius Offshore Business Activities Authority
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NBFI                Non-Bank Financial Institutions
OECD                Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development
OFC                 Offshore Financial Center
SADC                Southem African Development Committee
SBD                 Standard Bidding Documents
UN                  United Nations
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   Hafez M.H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:   Gerard Byayn
Task Team Leader:   Ahmet Soylemezoglu



MAURITIUS
FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                             3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                     5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          8
3. Benefits and target population                                                         9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                          9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                             10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                   17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                      17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              18
2. Financial                                                                             18
3. Technical                                                                             19
4. Institutional                                                                         19
5. Environmental                                                                         19
6. Social                                                                                20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        21



2. Critical risks                                                                    22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    22
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           23
2. Other                                                                             23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         23
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          41
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           54
Annex 11: Financial Sector                                                              55
MAP(S)
IBRD 24629



MAURITIUS
Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTFS
Date: November 9, 2001                             Team Leader: Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu
Country Manager/Director: Gerard A. Byam           Sector Manager/Director: Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Project ID: P073594                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[Xl Loan     [ ] Credit   l ] Grant     ( Guarantee      l Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$1.81 million
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 4.5
Commitment fee: .85% for the first four years, .75%  Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        0.46           0.00           0.46
IBRD                                                            0.31           1.50           1.81
Total:                                                          0.77           1.50           2.27
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, FINANCIAL SERVICES
The Honourable Khushhal Chand KIHUSHIRAM
Address: Emmanuel Anquetil Building, 9th floor
Port-Louis, Mauritius
Fax-No : (230) 311 3095; E-Mail : skhushiram@intnet.mu
Tel: (230) 201 3595           Fax: (230) 311 3095            Email: khushiram@intnet.mu
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003        2004
Annual    0.50        0.70       0.61
Cumulative    0.50        1.20       1.81
Project implementation period: 36 months
Expected effectiveness date: 04/04/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2004
OCS PAD FDA  lrq MA.,t 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Government of Mauritius has committed to establish a modem and well regulated financial
services industry with the objective of becoming a regional financial center. The Government has made its
deternination to develop the Mauritian financial system on the back of a world class regulatory system and
high technology financial infrastructure. Furthermore, the Government has recognized the limited future
for offshore financial centers and tax havens. It has expressed its intent to remove the regulatory
distinction between onshore and offshore entities. Towards this end, it has made commitments to the
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) in respect of money laundering and
reduced secrecy. The Economic Crimes and Anti-Money Laundering Law was enacted in 2000.
The project will support the establishment of the Financial Sector Commission (FSC) as an
effective regulatory institution for the non-bank financial sector, with the eventual intention that it will
become a single integrated regulatory agency covering all prudential and market conduct regulation, which
will reside within the Bank of Mauritius (BOM).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project's success depends on whether the FSC becomes successful in five key areas within two
years. These are: (a) having put in place sound prudential and market conduct regulatory standards and
policies; (b) having the FSC staff acquire necessary skills to conduct their job; (c) having the market
participants absorb and comply with the new requirements of the new regulatory regime; (d) having the
FSC enjoy credibility, both in Mauritius and in the international community; and (e) having the
Government proceed with its plans to bring banking supervision under the FSC, which assumes all
financial system regulation and supervision (see Annex 11 for a brief description of the financial sector in
Mauritius).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 1642 MAS Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/22/97
The project should be viewed from two distinct vantage points in terns of its strategic context.
The first point is the developmental goals of Mauritius and the Bank's overall assistance strategy related to
these goals. The second point is the concern of the international community with the regulation of the
financial sector, especially in small island economies. This project serves both of these purposes. It assists
Mauritius to attain its developmental goals while ensuring that the global concerns are being met.
As explained in the next section, Mauritius has been making significant efforts to develop itself as
a major financial and trading center. These efforts are also supported by the Bank's current Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The current CAS identified the expansion of international services, including
financial, as a means to diversify sources of growth and employment, and included the positioning of
Mauritius as a regional and international service center among the strategic goals of the Government.
Furthermore, the CAS specifically mentions (Para. 36) the importance of having "the right legal and
regulatory framework" to enhance the competitiveness of the financial sector. It also underscores the need
to protect the island's reputation. The Bank's next CAS, which will be completed end of March 2002, will
stress the development of industries that can produce high value goods and services (the new CAS's other
main points will be social inclusion and environment). It will also stress the fact that well-functioning and
internationally reputable financial services are necessary to attain this objective. Furthermore, the new
- 2 -



CAS will make the point that crises in the financial sector create wide-spread poverty in the most
vulnerable groups in middle-income countries. The project is therefore going to support these objectives by
laying the foundation of an efficient and intemationally respected regulatory framework for the financial
services industry that will reduce the risk of crises in the sector.
The interest of the international community in regulating financial systems stems from concerns
regarding: (a) maintaining safe and sound global financial markets by controlling contagion of financial
failures across countries; (b) preventing financial abuses; (c) enhancing competition in financial services by
removing regulatory arbitrage; and (d) enhancing consumer confidence by proper market conduct
regulations. In line with these objectives, various international bodies have been working on global norms
and standards for financial system regulation and supervision. Among these bodies, the most notable are
Basel International Committee for Banking Supervision (BIS), OECD, G-7, Financial Sector Action Task
Force (FATF), International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), and International
Association of Insurance Supervisors (LAIS). The Bank and the Fund have been consulted regularly by
these organizations and are providing advice with respect to the emerging regulatory architecture of the
global financial systems. Both the Bank and the Fund have also been asked by the G7 to pay special
attention to Offshore Financial Centers (OFC). In response to these developments, a special class of
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) was created for OFCs. Furthermore, a joint Bank and Fund
position with respect to financial abuse is under discussion. This would also define areas in which the
Bank and the Fund can provide assistance. Technical assistance to enhance regulatory and supervisory
capacity is likely to be at the core of this envisaged assistance mechanism.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government places a high priority on the continuing development of Mauritius as an attractive
business and financial center and, in particular, a financial hub and stepping stone for businesses wanting
to provide services to all the Southern African Development Committee (SADC) countries from both
Mauritius and the envisaged special trade zone in Mozambique. In support of this objective, the
Government is placing enhanced emphasis on the need to increase the efficiency and integrity of the
financial system to enhance domestic and foreign user confidence. In addition, there is a clear acceptance
by the financial community that integration of the Mauritian financial system into the world economy
requires that both banking and non-banking financial institutions adapt to international norms for
conducting financial transactions.
In order to attain its strategic goals in the financial sector, Mauritius has been modernizing its
financial sector infrastructure. The supported Financial Sector Infrastructure Project (FSIS -
Ln.701 1-MAS) has assisted the BOM to establish the Mauritius Automated Clearance and Settlement
System (MACS). With the establishment of MACS, which is a state-of-the-art real-time gross settlement
system, Mauritius has become the only country in the SADC region other than South Africa to have such a
payment system. In addition to a modern payment system, the Mauritius Stock Exchange is in the process
of acquiring an automated order-based trading system. The securities trading will also be connected to
MACS. The Government has also set up the "Contributions Network" with the support of the Bank. This
network provides a single point of contact for all large and the majority of smaller employers to make
payments to various governmental departments. The contributions covered by the Contributions Network
Project include corporate tax, income tax, value-added tax, national pension fund contribution, the
industrial and vocational training board levy and the company registration tax. Moreover, all standard
information supplied/submitted will be maintained on a database at the single collection point.
- 3 -



In addition to significant investments made to improve physical financial sector infrastructure, the
Government has also made commitments to the intemational community to comply with the established
international norms and took actions in this direction. Specifically:
* the Government made an advance commitment to OECD to eliminate harmful tax practice;
*   it is coordinating closely with the FATF. Mauritius is therefore included in the "cooperating
jurisdiction" list of the FATF;
*   Mauritius also observes the relevant UJN conventions regarding money laundering. It has
already enacted the Economic Crimes and Anti-money Laundering Act to comply with these
conventions; and
*   the Government also made a deternination that the current structure of the financial sector
regulation is out of date and should be reformed in line with the current trends in financial
sector regulation and supervision.
To reform the regulatory structure, the Govermment appointed a Steering Committee to study the
global trends and experience and make specific recommendations as to the new regulatory structure. This
committee, which consisted of public and private sector representatives, has completed its work. It has
made a specific recommendation to integrate the current fragmented regulatory structure under a newly
established FSC. The committee's recommendations have been adopted by the Government. In order to go
forward with the reform agenda, the Govemment has launched an extensive legal agenda. The comerstone
of this agenda is the new enacted Financial Services Development Bill. This bill is an extensive piece of
legislation which repeals certain acts and regulations (such as offshore related legislation) and amends
various financial sector related legislation (Stock Exchange Act, Insurance Act, Protected Cell Companies
Act, Securities Clearance and Settlement Act (Central Depository System), Unit Trust Act, and
Non-citizens Act). The repeals and amendments will clear the way to set up an integrated financial system
regulation and supervision, as well as address various commitments that the Government has made to the
OECD. Simultaneous to the setting of the legal agenda, the Government asked the World Bank for project
assistance for the actual establishment of the FSC.
The Government has also consulted with the IMF throughout the entire process. The fund provided
comments to the report of the Special Commission as well as the draft of the new financial services bill.
Both the Bank and the Fund have coordinated their comments regarding the emerging regulatory structure
for the financial sector in Mauritius.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Financial system regulation and supervision are the key sector issues addressed by this project.
The Govemnment has made a strategic choice to set up a FSC which will eventually become the integrated
regulator in Mauritius. This choice, as discussed in detail in Section D below, reflects a desire on the part
of the Govemment to follow the recent global trends in financial system regulation and supervision.
This project will assist the Government in setting up the Mauritius FSC. In order for FSC to
become an efficient and effective regulator, it will need to acquire and/or develop: (a) human resources; (b)
relevant information technology (IT) needs; and (c) operational policies and procedures and manuals. The
project will provide resources for all of these critical areas and act as the main vehicle to launch the FSC.
- 4 -



The project documentation has been shared and discussed with the IMF. The Fund expressed its
support to this project as the project would address important regulatory issues by way of establishing a
modem financial sector regulator which adheres to established international norms and adopting the
relevant best practices.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is designed in such a way that the FSC can quickly become an effective and efficient
financial system regulator. The FSC, as a new entity, requires: (a) human skills capable of carrying out its
mission; (b) procedural guidelines compatible with the functioning of a modem financial system regulator;
(c) regulation policy standards which are in line with the international best practices and compatible with
the unique circumstances that exist in Mauritius; and (d) IT resources to enable its functioning.
Based on the needs of the FSC, the project includes four distinct set of activities: (a) oversight and
coherence; (b) standards and procedures; (c) staff development and skill building; and (d) an information
technology platform. Below is a detailed description of each component. All of the project components,
except the first one, are directly mapped to an identified need. The first component, as explained below, is
included to maintain coherence among the other components so that human skills, policies and procedures
are developed and IT resources are acquired in coherence with each other.
Component 1: Oversight and Coherence of the Project
The project involves the design and implementation of an integrated regulatory agency. In recent
years, the UK, Japan, Australia and Korea have formed integrated regulators. Experience with integrated
regulation has a longer history in Scandinavia and Singapore. A number of emerging market countries are
also in the process of integrating their regulatory agencies, most notably among the Eastern European
countries. Despite this experience, the area is relatively new and so far mostly confined to developed
economies. No consensus has emerged yet on the ideal structure of integrated agencies nor of the optimal
path for integration. The only convergence in views that has emerged from experience to date includes:
* the ideal structure is country specific; and
* there is a critical need to maintain the overall coherence of the structural reforms.
With this in mind, the proposed project includes provision for a consultant to oversee the coherence
of the various components of the project. This component will include assistance with the development of a
mission and vision for the new agency, as well as an appropriate culture. It will also include advice on the
stages of the implementation process, including staff needs and structural issues. The consultant should
have experience with integrated regulation, regulatory design and with the implementation process for new
agencies.
Component 2: Standards and Procedures
This component will develop all the necessary standards and procedures for the functioning of the
FSC. The compiling of these standards and procedures will provide basic operational manuals for the FSC.
This component will be implemented in four stages.
- 5 -



*   Review of existing standards, policies and procedures: The first stage involves a review of
the existing prudential standards and market conduct regulations against intemational best
practice, as set out by the IAIS and IOSCO. This review should be carried out by consultants
familiar with the international best practice standards and also with the FSAP process and
methodology established by the World Bank and the IMF. This stage will also identify all
existing internal policies and procedures manuals in the three agencies that are to be combined
to form the FSC.
*   Develop standards for prudential and market conduct regulation: The second stage
involves the preparation of new prudential standards for insurance, pensions, security dealers
and other non-bank financial institutions that warrant prudential regulation. It also involves
the preparation of new regulations for market conduct. In both cases, the new standards and
regulations will need to be reviewed against existing legislation to assess where legislative
amendments may be needed to ensure the effective functioning of the new agency.
*   Develop internal policies and procedures for implementing policy and for internal
governance: The third stage involves preparation of internal policies and procedures manuals,
covering inspection processes, data analysis and internal controls over expenditures and
conduct. These manuals should also include technical registers of advice given (precedents)
and also of legal interpretations.
-   Review long range policy goals: The fourth stage involves a forward-looking review of the
policies and practices developed in stages two and three against a long-range plan of where the
development of these should be heading over the course of the next three years in particular,
but also over a longer horizon.
It is critical that the standards and procedures manuals in the second and third stages be prepared
in conjunction with staff from the new agency. There must be a high degree of ownership of these
documents for them to be of use. Importantly, the regulatory agency itself must meet the highest standards
of internal governance and disclosure if it is to have credibility with the institutions it is charged with
regulating.
The consultants for this component should have a sound understanding of the core principles of
international best practice in the regulation of insurance, pensions, other non-bank financial institutions and
market conduct. They should also have a track record in drafting prudential standards and regulations and
a familiarity with the internal operations of a regulatory agency.
Component 3: Staff Training and Skill Building
One of the key points of a successful regulator is undoubtedly to have competent staff. This
component will provide resources and a framework to develop required skills. It will be implemented in
five main stages:
*   Assess existing skill base: The first stage requires an assessment of the existing skills
contained in the three agencies (i.e., insurance regulator, stock exchange commission and the
Mauritius Offshore Business Activities Authority (MOBAA) - the off shore regulator).
*   Assess the skill needs of each stage in the implementation plan: The second stage involves
- 6 -



assessing the human resource skill needs of each stage in the implementation plan. This
includes assessment of total staff numbers, as well as the skill mix and the gap between
existing and projected needs.
*   Develop and implement a training program for staff: The third stage is the major element
of this component. The consultants will be required to design a suise of training programs to
be delivered in-house at the new agency. These training programs should address the skill
shortages in the new agency. They should also, wherever possible, seek to include staff from
BOM in the programs of the FSC and also to include FSC staff in BOM training programs to
begin the process of cross-training for eventual amalgamation of the two agencies. There
should also be scope to include staff from the private financial institutions (on a cost recovery
basis) on some of these programs, both to foster networking within the industry and to help
build critical skills in the industry (for example, in securitization and derivative products).
*   Visit program for staff: The fourth stage includes a budget for sending selected staff, for
periods of around one month, to other integrated regulatory agencies to gain first
hand-experience in the style and practice of integrated regulation. This item will not be
included under the tender budget for extemal consultants for this component of the project.
i Develop an implementation plan for skill building: The fifth stage of this component
involves constructing a timetable for the introduction of training programs that will best benefit
the FSC as it recruits new staff and builds its regulatory capacity.
The consultants involved with this component must have a solid understanding of the particular
training needs of regulators, as distinct from others in the financial industry. They must be able to pitch the
training program at a level and style that is suitable to the Mauritian situation. Programs should recognize
the need to balance staff training with having staff in front line supervision. Finally, they should identify
staff within the FSC who are capable of taking on a continuing training role and assist them to develop the
skills to take over the training program after this stage has been completed.
In addition to the skill development for the FSC staff, the project provides an initial training
platform for the industry professionals. This training program will be carried out by the newly established
financial sector promotion agency, which will be created as a spin off of the current MOBAA. With the
establishment of the FSC, MOBAA will cease to exist. Its regulatory responsibilities will be transferred
over to the FSC along with its staff working on regulatory aspects. The MOBAA's promotional activities
will be transferred to a new promotional agency. This agency along with promotional services will be
engaged in activities to train financial sector staff.
Component 4: Information Technology Platform
The fourth component of the project has two stages only. The first involves a review of the
currently assessed IT needs of the FSC, including any equipment that it may inherit from the existing
agencies. The second involves procurement and installation of suitable equipment. Implementation will
need to be in step with staff recruiting and training needs. It should not be necessary to involve an external
consultant in this stage.
-7 -



The summary cost of each components is presented below.
A detailed cost breakdown is provided in Annex 2.
Indicative             Bank-      % of
Component                    Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)  financing
1. Oversight and Coherence                               0.05        2.2       0.04       2.2
2. Standards and Procedures                               0.48      21.1       0.38      21.0
3. Staff Development and Skill Building                   0.77      33.9       0.61       33.7
4. Information Technology                                 0.40      17.6       0.32       17.7
5. Contingency                                           0.55       24.2       0.44      24.3
Total Project Costs                     2.25      99.1       1.79       98.9
Front-end fee                      0.02       0.9       0.02        1.1
Total Financing Required                       2.27     100.0       1.81      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project seeks to establish an effective and efficient integrated financial system regulator and
supervisor. This policy objective is going to be pursued by reforming existing institutional architecture for
the legal regulatory framework. The project will create a designated authority to regulate all non-bank
financial institutions and it will pave the way the creation of eventual single regulator which will be housed
within the BOM. The Steering Committee on the Establishment of a New Regulatory Framework for the
Financial Services Sector in Mauritius which was set up by the Government mentions the following
specific policy goals:
* enhance international competitiveness of operators based in Mauritius;
* maintain high standards of supervision and regulation consistent with
intemational guidelines;
* consolidate lines of communication with international regulatory agencies; and
*   optimize the use of scarce human skills.
The Steering Committee report also mentions that the effective and efficient regulatory system will
reassure:
* the domestic consumer of the soundness of the country's financial system;
* the operators that they are getting a fair and impartial treatment; and
* the potential world class operators intending to set up in Mauritius, that they
will obtain a high standard of regulation and supervision which will keep their
reputation intact.
The project will support all of the above policy goals and related institutional reforrms.
-8 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Although the project effectively targets financial sector operators and participants in Mauritius,
the benefits from the project will be broad. The consumers, the operators and the intemational community
will all benefit from the refonns that will be supported by the project. This will in turn create a more stable
and intemationally competitive financial sector in Mauritius.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A Project Implementing Unit (PIU) was established under the tutelage of the Ministry of Economic
Development, Financial Services, and Corporate Affairs (MEDFSCA) to implement project activities. The
PIU, headed by the Director of the Ministry, is composed by one principal economist, one principal
financial analyst and one senior finance officer; they will be in charge of the project financial and
procurement management. In addition the MEDFSCA will provide support staff.
The implementation process will require close monitoring and supervision. The IBRD task team
will closely work with the MEDFSCA to monitor the progress of the project. The MEDFSCA will monitor
the implementation to ensure the legal and fiduciary requirements are being observed and the issues in
technical nature are raised with the IBRD task team. The MEDFSCA will also provide its opinions on the
project implementation on a regular basis. It will also follow the agreed actions will be taken by the PIU on
a timely manner.
Accounting and Financial Reporting
The Finance Section within the Ministry of Economic Development, Financial Services and
Corporate Affairs, would be responsible for overall aspect of the project financial management including
budgeting, bookkeeping, administration of the special account and preparation of the financial statements.
An accounting and financial management system, based on intemational accepted accounting standards
acceptable to the Bank has been established. A financial management manual is also available. It defines
clearly processes, responsibilities and control procedures to be applied for timely preparation of financial
statements and safeguard of assets. The accounting staff in the Finance Section have adequate qualification
and relevant experience to be completely successful in carrying out their functions. Following the
assessment carried out by a financial management specialist of the Bank, the financial management system
actually in place has been rated as appropriate to maintain proper record-keeping and to produce financial
information required to manage and monitor efficiently project activities. However, the Project shall revise
the actual chart of accounts to reflect useful categories (category of expenditure, components/activities)
detailed in this document. This measure is expected to be completed prior to Board presentation.
Project Management Report
The project will adopt a financial management and reporting system in compliance with the Bank's
relevant policies and procedures. It was found that the traditional disbursement methods are more
appropriate for this project based on the following considerations: (a) relatively short period of
disbursements; and (b) better familiarity of PIU with the traditional disbursement methods. The PIU will
produce the basic financial statements annually and submit on a quarterly basis the following reports: a
Summnary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a statement of Uses of Funds by project activity, an Output
Monitoring Report, a Contract Expenditure Report-Goods and Works, a Contract Expenditure
Report-Consultants, a Procurement Management Report-Goods & Works, and a Procurement Management
Report-Consultants.
-9-



Auditing
The project's financial statements will be audited by the Mauritius Government Audit Office, the
supreme audit institution in the country. It is an independent public office whose status is clearly defined in
the Constitution and is staffed with personnel who collectively have the necessary skills and experience in
auditing. The Audit Department will carry out the review in accordance with international auditing
standards and will provide an opinion on: (a) the financial statements; (b) the use of the special account;
and (c) the statement of expenditures. The auditor will also indicate in the audit report, especially in the
section management letter, significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls and
propose relevant recommendations for their improvement. The audit report is to be sent to the Bank within
six months after the end of the fiscal year. The terms of reference of the audit will be reviewed by a Bank
Financial Management Specialist.
Procurement
IBRD Guidelines for procuring goods and consultant's services will be observed for all
procurement activity. The General Procurement Notice has already been published in the U.N.
Development Business (May 15, 2001 issue) with clearance of the IBRD Procurement specialists.
Disbursement of IBRD funds
Disbursements from IBRD will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures. The IBRD
will make advance disbursements from the proceeds of the Loan by depositing into an operational Special
Account, which will be opened in the name of the MEDFSCA for an amount of US$200,000 to expedite
project implementation. The advance in the Special Account will be used by the executing agency to
finance IBRD's share of project expenditures under the Loan. Another acceptable method of withdrawing
funds from the Loan is the direct payment method, involving direct payments from the Credit to a third
party for goods and services. Payments may also be made to a commercial bank for expenditures against
IBRD special commitments covering a commercial bank's Letter of Credit. IBRD's Disbursement Letter
will stipulate a minimum application value for direct payment and special commitment procedures. These
disbursement methods will be used during the three years of project implementation.
Upon loan effectiveness, the MEDFSCA will submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit
to the Special Account, drawn from the IBRD Loan, in the amount of US$200,000 to be agreed during
negotiations. Replenishment of funds from IBRD to the Special Account will be made upon evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in the SOE and/or on full documentation for payments
above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly. If ineligible
expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obliged to refund
the same. If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be
requested to refund to IBRD amounts advanced to the Special Account.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Background of the Government's Decision
The current financial sector regulatory system is fragmented and its level uneven across various
activities. The current system reflects the traditional regulatory approach whereby the regulatory system is
- 10-



organized along with the industry lines (see table 1). There are currently four main regulators of financial
sector activities in Mauritius:
* BOM which regulates all onshore and offshore banks;
* MOBAA which regulates all off shore financial services other than banks;
* insurance supervisor which regulates domestic insurance companies; and
* stock exchange commission which regulates functioning of the stock exchange
and publicly traded companies.
All other financial services which do not fall under the jurisdiction of above regulators are not
currently being regulated. There are also no clear market conduct regulations.
TiMe 1 :1Eguhdia  sid SMp drv4skm skudimof oftFeiiwiid
See s Indush y in lVariius
~~~~~~~~~~~~~rI
-~~~~~~~~~~~=8
The level of regulatory and supervisory capacity is quite uneven between the banking sector and
non-banking sector. BOM is an internationally well respected regulator and supervisor of banks. The
regulatory and supervisory system of banking sector is largely compliant with Basel Core Principles. It is
perhaps because of the BOM's strict regulatory stance that offshore banking in Mauritius has never reached
the levels seen in other island states. There are only 10 licensed offshore banks, virtually all of which are
subsidiaries of big interational banks.
WVhile the banking system is well regulated, the regulatory system for NBFIs is not adequate. Some
important financial sector activities such as pension funds and finance companies are not being regulated
at all. The insurance and off shore regulator are understaffed and lack adequate skills. Furthermore, the
offshore regulator is also the promoter of offshore financial services and open to the possibility of serious
conflict of interest.
In addition to the problems of inadequacy and unevenness of regulatory systems, Mauritius has
been under international pressure to comply with the international standards regarding to economic crimes
and tax sheltering. In this respect, Mauritius has made strong and credible international commritmnents. It
pledged to the OECD to comply with the OECD standards. It is cooperating with the FATF. Mauritius
- 11-



also committed to all UN conventions regarding cross-border financial transactions. It enacted a law of
Economic Crimes and Anti-money Laundering which conforms international norms and conventions in this
regard.
Mauritius's desire to comply with all international norms is deeply associated with its own
development goals. Mauritius would like to become an international financial center. Mauritius also
would like to be the main hub for trade and investment directed towards the SADC region. With these
goals in mind, Mauritius has been making significant investments to its financial and trade sector
infrastructure. It has already established: (a) a state-of-the-art real-time gross settlement system; (b) a
Contribution Network which serves as a single payment point for employers to make payments on taxes
and levies; (c) an electronic trade clearing system which utilizes the same electronic infrastructure for the
contributions network; (d) central depository system for the stock exchange transactions; and (e) an
electronic trading system for the stock exchange (acquisition process is ongoing). Most of these efforts
were supported by World Bank projects. The Government has been conscious of the fact that investment
alone will not be sufficient to achieve its goals for the financial sector. The further development of the
sector could only be achieved by developing an internationally credible and effective regulator.
Government's Decision
The Decision Process. The Government has been reviewing various options to bring about a better
financial system regulation and supervision for the last three years. The Bank was also brought into these
discussions as part of our policy dialogue. The initial stages of this dialogue were centered around
gathering the international experience and obtaining views of the system operators. The newly elected
Government took stock of these discussions and decided to form a Steering Committee to set up a FSC in
October 2000. The main terms of reference of this committee were to:
* advise Government on the scope, powers, structure and governance of the FSC;
*   provide a clear proposal for a draft FSC Bill to be submitted for Government's approval within
a period of three months; and
*   make appropriate recommendations and to assist in the process of implementation within a
targeted period of one year.
The Steering Committee was chaired by a former financial secretary and included both public and
private sector representatives. The Committee studied the international experience extensively. It engaged
in an extensive dialogue with the operators of all sub-sectors.
Alternatives Considered. They considered various alternative institutional structures. Among
these alternatives were:
*   establishment of a single regulator outside of the BOM;
*   setting up a single regulator for NBFIs while preserving the current status of BOM
vis-a-vis banks; and
*   extending the BOM's responsibilities over entire financial system immediately.
The Steering Committee rejected all of these alternatives based on their assessment of the current
conditions in Mauritius (the Steering Committee's report is available within the project files). They have
elected to create a FSC which will be housed within the BOM and initially responsible only for NBFIs.
Subsequently, the regulatory and supervisory activities of the BOM will be merged into FSC. With this
merger, the BOM will become similar to the Singapore Monetary Authority in terms of its structure and
- 12 -



responsibilities. The core rationale of the Steering Committee's decision to adopt a two-step approach and
create a single regulator which will be housed within the BOM can be summarized by the following: (i) the
Committee wanted to preserve BOM's reputation and credibility with respect to the banking supervision
while building an effective regulatory structure for NBFIs; and (b) the Committee found that the size of the
Mauritian economy and its particular needs would be best served with an integrated supervisor which will
reside within the BOM.
The Government's decision to initiate a process of moving to an integrated regulator should be
examined in the context of the current trends in regulation and supervision for financial systems. There has
recently been a significant movement towards integrated regulation of financial sector, especially in
developed countries. In addition, it is important to examine the governance structure of the FSC to see
whether it conforms to intemationally accepted governance norms of similar organizations.
The Case for Integrated Regulation
The core rationale for the Mauritian decision on moving toward an integrated regulatory system is
actually no different than any other similar decision elsewhere. There is a uniform reasoning for the
movement towards integrated regulation all around the world. This uniformity came out very prominently
during the 1998 meetings of the world's integrated regulators. In May 1998 a group of nine integrated
regulators from around the world gathered in Sydney, Australia for the first meeting of the Integrated
Regulators Group. In the interest of sharing experiences with each other about responsibilities, legal
frameworks, internal structures and policies, each member of that group responded to a questionnaire
covering some 60 questions. Despite a great diversity of answers to almost every question, the one area in
which there was a high degree of convergence was in respect of the rationale for establishing the integrated
agency. In almost every case, the motivation lay in a combination of:
* convergence in financial markets and the emergence of financial conglomerates;
* the need for greater consistency in the application of policy across different industries; and
*   the ability to make more efficient use of scarce regulatory resources.
Financial Conglomeration. The impact of financial conglomeration has been the focus of much
discussion recently. One of the extensive considerations of this issue from a regulatory perspective was
given during the Australian experience of setting up an integrated regulator. This was done by the Wallis
Committee in reviewing the Australian financial regulatory system in the late 1990s (See Financial System
Final Report, Australian Government Publishing Service, March 1997). The Wallis Commnittee argued
that innovations in product design and distribution had blurred the boundaries between financial
instruments and also between financial institutions. Further, the Committee believed that the range of
choices and the channels through which financial services are offered were likely to continue to increase
rapidly. These forces were viewed as likely to widen the boundaries of financial markets and lead to
heightened competitive pressures. According to the Committee:
"Many of the changes will occur within the institutions already providing financial services. To
ensure that the most efficient and competitive services can be offered, these institutions will need
to ensure that they do not bear greater regulatory costs than their competitors. This will often
involve large financial institutions establishing conglomerate structures under holding companies,
and conducting as much business as possible through subsidiaries subject to lighter regulation".
To choose among the plethora of options, consumers may rely to an increasing extent upon trusted
names, resulting in brands ofpreferredfinancial system suppliers or advisers becoming very
- 13-



valuable. It may prove highly profitable for financial conglomerates to use their brand strength
across a wide range of activities (Financial System Final Report, op. cit. para.7)"
This line of thinking suggests that a certain level of financial conglomeration is not only a logical
outcome of evolutionary pressures in the financial system, but an efficient form of service delivery and
transmitting information to consumers. Indeed, the Wallis Committee regarded the most likely outcome to
be that financial markets would eventually become polarized into large conglomerates and small niche
players, with relatively few participants in the middle. This view is consistent with the continued
proliferation of financial conglomerates around the world.
In view of this evidence and the worldwide trend towards conglomeration and the objective for
Mauritius to become a regional market, there is a strong case to build a regulatory structure that is capable
of dealing with the regulatory demands and challenges of financial conglomeration.
Regulatory Neutrality. The second motivation for regulatory integration shared by almost all of
the existing integrated regulators was the desire to generate regulatory neutrality across the financial sector.
It is a fundamental requirement for efficient regulation that the regulatory burden imposed on any
institution be related to the type and extent of market failures involved, rather than to the institutional label
that the company carries; that is, the system should, to the greatest extent possible, be regulatory neutral.
Under a regulatory structure based on groups of financial institutions, potential non-neutralities
arise because the same promises can be made by institutions subject to different regulators. For example,
under the institutional model, bank and non-bank deposit takers (such as building societies and credit
unions and, in some countries, even finance companies and investment trusts) usually have different
regulators, despite the fact that they make essentially the same financial promises. The potential for
conflict is exacerbated in some countries by the presence of both state and federal regulators. Even the
most assiduous efforts at coordination are unlikely to prevent differences of application across a diverse set
of regulators, each subject to its own legislative processes and resource constraints.
Where a financial institution is able to choose among different regulators, either by altering its
corporate form, its regulatory jurisdiction or simply its institutional label, there is an incentive to arbitrage
among the potential regulators so as to minimize the regulatory burden. This problem is exacerbated in
conglomerate situations where a heavily-regulated parent is able to reduce its regulatory burden by shifting
business into an unregulated subsidiary. Regulatory arbitrage of this type has been comnmon throughout the
world, including in Mauritius.
The crux of the problem is that, in the traditional regulatory model based on institutions, the
jurisdictions of the regulators are defined by the institutional groups to which they are attached. Thus, for
example, a banking regulator is usually restricted to regulating banks, rather than to regulating
banking-type products. This can leave an arbitrage opportunity for new institutions to offer banking-type
products under a different banner, thereby remaining outside the jurisdiction of the main regulator. Where
the new unregulated institutions incur greater risk by avoiding or minimizing regulation, the stability of the
whole financial system may be put at risk. Resolving this conflict requires either an amalgamation of
regulators to a level where regulatory gaps are minimal or redefining jurisdictional boundaries by financial
promises rather than by institutional groups. Thus, for example, any institution offering deposit promises
could be defined as a bank for regulatory purposes. Similarly, any institution making an insurance-type
promise could be defined as an insurance company for regulatory purposes.
- 14 -



An integrated regulatory structure not only has the best potential to reduce or eliminate potential
non-neutralities between competing prudential regulators it can also reduce potential non-neutralities
between prudential and other regulators where these regulatory functions are amalgamated into the one
institution
At a minimum, the FSC would provide a platforrn from which regulatory neutrality could be
pursued, particularly after it has been integrated with the BOM.
Efficient use of Scarce Regulatory Resources. The third factor cited widely by existing
integrated regulators as motivating the establishment of their agencies was the efficient use of scarce
regulatory resources. This consideration is particularly relevant in Mauritius, given the small size of the
domestic financial and human resource markets.
By assembling all regulators under the one roof, an integrated regulatory agency should be able to
extract efficiencies in the use of scarce regulatory resources. By offering a broader career path, within a
larger and presumably more prestigious organization, it should also be able to attract better quality staff.
This argument applies with one main reservation -- that the integrated agency should be
sufficiently well resourced that it is able to offer attractive employment conditions. Without this flexibility
no regulator can hope to attract the quality of staff needed to regulate the financial system effectively. This
consideration is extremely important in the Mauritian context and has been explicitly addressed by the
Government.
Governance Structure of FSC
The FSC's governance structure is outlined in the new bill. The FSC will be established as an
independent statutory corporate body. It will be funded by an industry levy. The FSC will have a board
(see Table 2 below) which is going to be chaired by the Managing Director of the BOM. Board Members
other than the Chairman will be appointed for a 3-year term and can be removed only when there is a
misconduct, default or breach of trust in the discharge of their duties. The FSC's operations will be carried
out by a Chief Executive who is going to be appointed by the Board. In addition to the operational
structure presented in Table 2, the bill establishes a Financial Services Advisory Council (FSAC) to advise
the FSC on a wide range of issues. This council will serve as a formal vehicle for consultations with the
financial sector operators. Besides being a consultation vehicle, FSAC is expected to monitor developments
in global and domestic financial markets and to provide advise to the FSC. In addition to the fomnnal
consultation mechanism created by way of FSAC, the FSC is also by virtue of the new draft law is tasked
to ensure coordination and cooperation between the public sector agencies and private sector companies
engaged in the financial sector. The new draft law also designates the FSS as the main focal point for
interface with the relevant international agencies and institutions.
- 15-



Table 2
Proposad Structure oF the Financial Services Conrsission
Financal Servi.es Commisiun
Bloard
Chief Esecutive
r        Technical                                                            Adminiatriosua
Liettming      Superi.ian    Legal        Cuosuoce      R-serch    Per-onel       G ...rat      C,neral    Frinance &
-insuacone     &                                        -Statistics    mansgem._t  Adl.intrlfon.   Registry  Slun
omponies       E.faroemesl   of           Publie       -Reports                   -Offic
-insuance      -insuance     legishliora,    Relations  -Papers                   maintaimmce
salesman       companies     bills,                                               -Irsoporl
-insurtasse    -tmarities    regulations,                                         -logistics
bro,ke-        ittikt        rule, c.trade uofioas
-sockbrokers/  -global      -*ettig of                                            -semis ar
-dealer        busisess      cetlifcates                                         -stalYseclfar:
repntatie      -C.a.e b tusts  -Lrgal                                             -IT Unit
-lr55ing      -Other         advice
compa-ies                    -Legal
-p-nsios                      ction., etc
-global business
companies
Transition Management
One of the important issues while setting up the FSC is to manage the transition. The Govenment
is making sure that no regulatory void will come about due to the dismantling of the existing institutions
and moving into the new FSC structure. This process is going to be rather straightforward mainly due to
two reasons: (a) the relatively small size of existing regulatory agencies (only 4 staff at the insurance
controllers office, about 6 in the Stock Exchange Commission, and about 10 in the regulatory section of
MOBAA); and (b) the very limited nature of existing regulatory systems for NBFIs. Countries such as
U.K. and Australia which recently moved to set integrated regulators had to make detailed transition
arrangements. In the case of U.K., FSC had to absorb about 3,000 staff whereas in the case of the
Australian Prudential Authority (ARPA) (which is only regulating prudential aspects and not involved in
the market-conduct regulation) has more than 500 staff. In addition to the size issue, the new regulators
had to be concerned with the organizational culture and career aspirations of the staff under the new set up.
In the case of Mauritius, the main challenge will be recruitment. The FSC is estimated to have about 80
people in its earlier phase. The new bill is giving flexibility to offer competitive pay to its employees. It
also authorizes the FSC to set up its own pension scheme while protecting the eamed rights of the existing
employees in different regulators.
- 16 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Financial Infrastructure Project   S              S
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The international experience is not expansive and it mainly consists of the developed world with
respect to integrated regulatory structures. Nonetheless, this experience offers two key lessons: (a) the
ideal structure is not country specific; and (b) there is a critical need to preserve an overall cohesion on the
structural reforms. The project builds on these lessons. The institutional structure has already taken into
account the country specific circumstance in Mauritius. The overall quality of financial system regulation
across vanous sub-sectors is uneven in Mauritius. Mauritius enjoys having a respectable and credible
banking supervision. On the other hand, several areas in the financial sector are either unregulated or
under-regulated. The proposed structure aims to preserve the prestige and the integrity of the banking
supervision while it builds the capacity in other areas. Hence, Mauritius has chosen to elevate the level of
regulation and supervision in NBFIs without burdening the banking supervision with this effort. Mauritius
has chosen to combine the prudential regulation with the market conduct regulation. This is similar to the
U.K. model but differs from the Australian model. Given the size of the economy in general and the
financial sector in particular, Mauritius feels comfortable with this choice.
In order to preserve the cohesion among the various phases of the project implementation, a special
component was included in the project design to: (i) preserve the cohesion among various project related
activities; and (ii) provide quality assurance.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has committed to reform its regulatory regime of the financial system. It has also
made international commitments to various multilateral organizations to bring Mauritian financial system
in line with the internationally accepted norms. Given the Government's determination in this respect, it
places a very high priority to this project. It has given a very high profile to the Steering Committee's work
in the Country. The Government also arranged a presentation of the Committee's report to the financial
sector participants which was covered extensively in the local media. More than 250 people who actively
participate in different aspects of the financial sector attended this presentation. The World Bank was also
invited. During this presentation, the Government announced that they sought the World Bank's assistance
to implement the decision of setting up the FSC. Following these presentations, the draft legislations
prepared and subjected to extensive consultations with the key stakeholders. With the successful
conclusion of the consultation process, the legislation establishing the FSC, the Financial Services Bill, has
passed the parliament on May 15,2001. In addition, the new companies act was passed on May 14, 2001
and the new Trust Bill was passed on May 22, 2001.
- 17-



It is obvious that such important and comprehensive legislative actions could not have been completed
without a high level of commitment and ownership by the Government.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement has to be assessed in the following context: (a) the Bank regularly consults
with the standard setting bodies such as BIS, IOSCO, IAIS, FATF, OECD on the regulatory structures and
norms; (b) the international standard setting organizations such as BIS, IOSCO, the various country
groupings such as G-7, and the private participants of the financial markets expect the Bank proactively
advocate international norms and standards; (c) the new joint Bank and Fund draft Board paper on
financial abuse is making clear that the Bank should provide resources to enhance financial system
regulation; (d) a special class of FSAP has recently been created for OFCs (Off Shore Financial Centers)
which primarily focuses on the regulatory systems and mentions that the Bank and the Fund should
facilitate the establishment of the modem regulatory structures; and (e) the Government is following the
development of a new world financial architecture closely and it is conscious of the Bank's role in this
process.
Given the above context, the Government is very much interested to have the benefit of
international and technical experience of the Bank while it sets up a new regulatory framework for the
financial sector. The Government is also concemed with the international credibility of the new regulatory
framework that they are planning to establish. The Government has made a determination that the Bank's
involvement would ensure that the concerns of the international community regarding financial system
regulation would be addressed. Hence, probability of attracting international credibility to this initiative
would significantly be enhanced with the Bank's involvement. It should also be noted that the Govemnment's
decision to create the FSC and seek the Bank's assistance for it has evolved over the last three years. The
Bank has already played a role of a resource person during this time through our country dialogue.
The Bank's policy dialogue in this field also facilitated the Government's policy dialogue with the
IMF. The Bank has coordinated with the IMF closely and enhanced the quality of the policy dialogue for
both the Bank and the Fund.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project's benefits are quite difficult to quantify. However, it is expected that the project will
help overall competitiveness of the Mauritian fmancial sector.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The cost estimates are activity-based. These estimates have been made based on the prevailing
rates for required consultancies and the prices for IT needs.
Fiscal Impact:
The total required investment for this undertaking is very small with respect to the size of the
Mauritian economy (the loan amount is less than one-thousandth of GNP).
- 18 -



3. Technical:
The proposed project is technically sound. It contains all the necessary elements to set up an
integrated regulator,
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project Implementation Unit set up in the Ministry of Economic Development, Financial Services and
Corporate Affairs (MEDFSCA) would be responsible for preparation and implementation of work
programs.
4.2 Project management:
To ensure an early implementation of project activities, the MEDFSCA has already staffed the PIU
with appropriate civil servants. Under the supervision of a Director, the key staff of the unit consists of
three officers in charge of financial and procurement management. The staff is experienced with World
Bank policies and procedures.
4.3 Procurement issues:
National procurement process includes the review for all contract exceeding US$20,000 equivalent
by the National Tender Board, however national procedure is cumbersome and could cause unexpected
delays. Bank standard bidding documents (SBDs) are widely used.
On the basis of a capacity assessment carried out during appraisal, an action plan was agreed to
address areas where implementing agencies need to be strengthened to meet good performance criteria for
procurement. The action plan includes: (a) staff in charge of procurement are invited to revisit up-dated
Bank Procurement related documents; and (b) procurement has to be advanced by submitting to the Bank
TORs for Consultants and technical specifications for goods before effectiveness.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project will adopt a financial management and reporting system in compliance with the Bank's
policies and procedures. Given the short disbursement period of this loan (2.5 years), it is more efficient
for the project to use the traditional disbursement methods. In this case, the project will produce the basic
financial statements annually and submit on a quarterly basis the following reports: a Summary of Sources
and Uses of Funds, a Contract Expenditure Report-Goods and Works, a Contract Expenditure
Report-Consultants, a Procurement Management Report-Goods & Works, and a Procurement Management
Report-Consultants. Given the fact that these reports are in essence the project management reports
(PMR), the project management unit is encouraged to move to use a simplified PMR as indicated in
Section 4.5 and Annex 9 of the Project Financial Management within the first year of the project
implementation.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
n.a.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
n.a.
- 19-



5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
n.a.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
n.a.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
n.a.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
n.a.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All the key stakeholders have been extensively consulted. There is a high degree of ownership
across the key stakeholders.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
n.a.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
n.a.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
n.a.
- 20 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?    _.       _
Policy                                      Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        l Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                          Ycs* No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                              =Xes   No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     '>Yes   No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      . Yes* No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                  .Yes   No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                        _           Yes   No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)         Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*             'Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable sateguard policies.
n.a.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable as it is providing support to the regulation of the financial
system, which is necessary for maintaining the well functioning of the financial system and to comply with
the international obligations of the country. Once implemented, the new FSC will assumc the regulatory
responsibilities of the existing regulator. It will also extend the regulatory coverage to unregulated
activities.
- 21 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    -Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The skill development programn yields         N          1) The staff selected will have basic skills to
inadequate skills.                                      build upon.
2) Best trainers will be selected and only to the
countries which is engaged in best practices will
be visited as part of the training program.
The policies and procedures to be             N         A highly experienced adviser will be provided
developed could be incoherent and                       under the project. This adviser will oversee the
inadequate.                                             cohesion across the project activities and will
function as a quality assurance person.
From Components to Outputs
Failure to get quality consultants.           N         The project has been promoted extensively
within the international financial community
active in financial system regulation. It has
already attracted large number of inquiries.
Failure to properly sequence the project      N         A careful sequencing of project related activities
related activities.                                     have already been prepared based on the
international best practices. The responsibility
of following this sequence will be overseen by
the oversight coordinator.
|Overall Risk Rating                           N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project is welcomed by all financial sector operators active in Mauritius and international
organizations. There does not seem to be any controversial aspect at this point. The government is
planning to merge the Bank of Mauritius's banking supervision department with the FSC within two to
three years to create a true integrated regulator. This aspect should be managed well. The government has
already taken steps to ensure and orderly merger by appointing the Managing Director of the BOM as the
chainnan of the FSC. Furthernore, the FSC will be physically located within the BOM facilities.
- 22 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Standard conditions of effectiveness apply.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
DI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
____           ii,2      ______      _                       ___ 
0 AhmetI. Soytzz glu       afevf.H. hanem                    Gerard A. Byam
Team Leader                        Sect Manager/Director              Country Manager/Director
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Expansion of financial      Diversification of financial    BOM reports, reports by the   Expansion of financial
services and improvement of  sector activities and increase  regulatory agencies, various   services especially
sector efficiency-          employment in the sector.    economic reports and     intemational financial
supervision missions.      services would help diversify
the Mauritian economy and
thus gain greater economic
stability.
Preserving the country's   Acceptance of the new       Assessments of OECD, UN    Having a good reputation as a
reputation as a safe and sound regulatory framework by the   and other similar agencies,   safe and sound financial
financial center,          intemational community.     participation of the new FSC  center would help Mauritius
in related intemational    to better pursue its
organizations.             developmental goals.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Establishment of a modem    Financial system regulations  Supervision reports. The  Internationally credible
well regulated financial   in line with the intemational  reports of intemational bodies regulatory system will provide
services industry.         best practices.             (IMF, G-7, OECD, FATF,    a competitive edge to
etc.).                     Mauritius to attract serious
investors and enable
Mauritian financial
companies operate better in a
global economy.
Elimination of regulatory  Unified regulatory stance with A modem regulatory system
arbitrage, wider spectrum of  respect to similar financial    will reduce systemic risks,
financial services activities.  risks and transactions.  steer financial institutions
Supervision reports.       toward a more efficient
position.
Preserving the cooperating
jurisdictions status with the
FATF. OECD, G-7.
Reports of these
organizations, supervision
reports, references to
Mauritian system in similar
undertakings by other
countries.
- 24 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators           Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Output from each             Output Indicators:          Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
High quality coherent        Consistency of regulatory    Supervision reports, periodic  A competent and recognized
implementation of the project. standards for the similar  reports by the advisor.     authority in this field acting
transactions and similar risks                           as advisor will ensure the
regardless of the type of the                            coherent implementation.
financial company.
FSC staff gains the relevant   Implementation status of the   Supervision reports, results of The FSC can only become
skills.                     training courses (14 courses   industry surveys and       effective and efficient if it has
offered during first year of    interviews with trainees and   the relevant skills.
implementation, 15 courses   trainers.
offered in the second year; at
least 20 people have attended
training during the first year;
all professional staff have
attended at least one course by
the end of the first 18 months
of implementation, trainer
assessment reports and
industry surveys indicate
sufficiency of trainees.
Policies and procedures      Compliance with the new      Supervision reports, reports of The FSC needs to develop a
developed reflect the best   regulatory standards within   FSC, opinions of intemational set of policies and procedures
practices as adopted to      six months after new         bodies.                     in line with the
Mauritian standards.         standards are issued.                                    intemationally accepted
norms to operate smoothly
and become intemationally
credible regulator.
Favorable opinion of the
intemational community as to
the compatibility of the
standards and procedures
developed by the FSC to those
of the intemationally accepted
norms.
FSC has all the relevant IT    Acquisition and installation of Supervision reports.   The FSC needs a state-of-the
needs.                      IT needs by 12/31, 2002.                                   art IT platform in order to
Efficient functioning of IT                              function efficiently and
platform (99.9 % availability  Supervision reports, the   effectively.
of IT platform within one    FSC's intemal reports,
month after installation is    industry perceptions.
completed).
- 25 -



Key Performance                             1
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components /     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                       Outputs)
Project does not have
sub-components
-26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.05 million
Oversight and Coherence of the Project
This component includes assistance with the development of the overall framework for the FSC. It
will also include advice on the stages of the implementation process, including staff needs and structural
issues.
The consultant will review all documentation from consultants to ensure consistency with the
overall objective. Consultant will also attend and assist with a strategic planning session during the first
six months after the FSC's establishment to help establish a mission and vision for the new agency as well
as an appropriate culture.
The consultant should have experience with integrated regulation, regulatory design and with the
implementation process for new agencies.
Project Component 2 - US$0.48 million
Standards and Procedures:
This component will be implemented in stages: (a) Review of Existing Standards, Policies and
Procedures; (b) Development of standards for prudential and market conduct regulation; (c) Development
of Intemal Policies and Procedures; and (d) Review of Long Run Policy Goals. A detailed look at all of
these activities and related costs are presented below.
(a)    Review of Existing Standards, Policies and Procedures. This is the first stage of activities
under Standards and procedures. It involves a review of the existing prudential standards and market
conduct regulations against intemational best practice, as set down by the IAIS and IOSCO, and
identification of all existing intemal policies and procedures manuals in the three agencies that are to be
combined to form the FSC. It is estimated that this should take around 14 days for each of insurance and
market conduct.
Assessment of Standards and manuals:        Days          Rate            Total
(US$)           (US$
Assess IAIS                                14            1 250           17,500
Assess IOSCO                                14            1,250           17,500
Travel and per diem                                                        8,080
Total Assessment                                                         43,080
(b)    Development of Standards for Market Conduct and Prudential Regulations. This is the
second stage of activities which involves the preparation of new prudential standards for insurance,
pensions, securities dealers and other non-bank financial institutions that warrant prudential regulation. It
- 27 -



also involves the preparation of new regulations for market conduct. In both cases, the new standards and
regulations will need to be reviewed against existing legislation to assess where legislative arnendments may
be needed to ensure the effective functioning of the new agency.
A broad framework for the FSC's approach to regulating institutions should be set out in five main
policy documents - one for market conduct, one for the prudential regulation of life insurance companies,
one for the prudential regulation of general insurance companies, one for the regulation of pension funds,
and one for the regulation of other financial institutions.
Each of these should spell out the philosophy behind the approach to the particular sector or
activity involved and the major rules and regulations. At this stage, with the need to upgrade insurance
regulation from a relatively low level, it would be advisable to start with a solvency based framework of the
type used in the EU. Over time this could be refocused towards a more risk-based approach.
In the case of prudentially regulated institutions, the standards/regulations should specify the
FSC's position on such issues as:
* licensing;
3 the measurement of capital;
* valuation of assets and liabilities;
3 capital (or solvency) requirements, including minimum capital and/or variable capital
requirements;
3 other requirements with respect to liquidity, asset or liability concentration;
e requirements for the use of auditors and actuaries; and
i governance requirements.
In the case of market conduct, the standards/regulations should address such issues as:
*   disclosure;
o governance;
*   market behavior;
*   price discovery;
3   insider trading; and
3   conflicts of interest.
Preparation of Standards and Regulations:   Days            Rate         Total
(US$)       (US$)
Life Insurance                              21              1,250        26,250
General Insurance                           21              1,250       26,250
Pensions                                    21              1,250       26,250
Other Institutions:
Securities Dealers                          15              1,250        18,750
Managed Funds                               15              1,250        18,750
Leasing                                     15              1,250        18,750
Finance Cos.                                15              1,250        18,750
Market Conduct                              30              1,250       37,500
Travel and per diem costs                                               24,240
Total Standards                                                        215,490
- 28 -



(c)    Development of Internal Policies and Procedures. The third stage involves establishing a
supervisory action plan based on the assessment of risk in each institution. For prudentially regulated
institutions this requires regular prudential consultations with senior management of prudentially regulated
institutions, specialist risk visits where considered necessary and the assignment of a risk rating to the
institution (for internal use). For the larger institutions this process would usually involve the preparation
of quarterly reviews and peer group analysis plays a major role in the process.
The Prudential review process would norrnally assesses the following areas of an institution's
operations:
*   Business Strategy;
*   Legal Structure/Organization;
*   Capital/Solvency;
*   Performance;
*   Asset and Liability Management;
*   Management and Internal Control;
*   Shareholder/Head Office Strength; and
*   Unregulated Subsidiaries and Associates (where relevant).
Specialized risk visits would normally concentrate on:
Financial Risks
-   Asset Concentration Risk;
*   Asset Valuation Risk;
*   Credit Risk;
-   Pricing Risk;
_   Expense Risk;
_   Liability Concentration Risk;
-   Liability Valuation Risk;
-   Liquidity Risk; and
3   Market Risk.
Operational Risks
9  Administration Risk;
i   Compliance Risk;
*   Contagion Risk;
*   Event Risk;
*   Fraud Risk;
*   Governance Risk;
*   Strategic Risk; and
*   Technology Risk.
Risk Management
*   Board/Senior Management Oversight;
*   Policies, Procedures, Controls and Limits; and
*   Management Information Systems.
Given the above areas of concern for regulation, the FSC will need specific procedural manuals.
The scope and the content of these manuals explained below.
- 29 -



Reference Guides for General Inspections. The importance of these risks varies between
individual institutions or classes of institution (general insurer, life insurer, pension fund, or other financial
institution). To assist supervisors in assessing these risks, this stage of the project will provide Reference
Guides for each risk including cross-referencing to the various pieces of Mauritian legislation. These will
need to be prepared for life insurance, general insurance, pensions, and other financial institutions.
For each institutional group, detailed procedures manuals will be needed for inspections involving
each of these risk areas covering:
Pre-visit preparation
Scheduling of visits:
*   Pre-visit briefing material; and
*   Determining the agenda for the visit.
The visit
*   Opening comments;
D   Areas to be covered (eg for a market risk visit this would include risk management models,
asset and liability management, meeting with front/middle/back office staff, treasury
accounting, internal audit, information technology etc.); and
*   Closing meeting.
Post-visit process
*   Assessment of the visit and prudential issues raised; and
*   Drafting the letter to the institution and developing follow-up plans where necessary.
Specialist Risk Visit Manuals. Specialist risk skills will need to be developed. While these are
unlikely to be needed during the capacity building stages, preliminary manuals covering the basics of:
Credit Risk (this will become more important when the FSC is integrated with the Bank of Mauritius),
Operational Risk and Balance Sheet and Market Risk should be developed. Manuals should cover the
principles of each risk and the areas that inspectors should look for on a specialist visit. Development of
this risk capacity should be a priority over time.
Market Conduct Manuals. A special set of guidelines will be needed for inspections following
reports of misconduct by market participants. These manuals should be prepared with a close eye on the
legislation.
Other Supervision Manuals. The Quality and Consistency of inspections is enhanced by the
preparation of information notes to assist frontline supervisors in specialist risk areas. These notes should
be developed internally as experience grows.Examples of such notes would include:
*   Provision of Reports to External Auditors of Regulated Institutions;
*   Guidelines for Determination of Timing of Actuarial Investigations;
*   Provision of External Audit Reports on Risk Management Systems to FSC;
*   Assessment of Security Valuations for the Purpose of Prescribed Provisioning; and
*   Compliance with the relevant Acts and Regulations.
- 30 -



With the assistance of the consultants, the FSC should established a Technical Advice Register and a Legal
Precedents Register, to provide staff with a technical interpretation of the various Acts that it regulates.
Internal Policies and Procedures Manuals. In conjunction with the consultants, the FSC will
need to develop an intemal Code of Conduct and a Policies and Procedures Manual for intemal
governance. These are critical documents in establishing credibility with the market. The FSC must meet
the highest standards of intemal govemance.
Practice Manuals:                         Days          Rate            Total
(US$)          (US$)
General Inspection Manuals:
Life Insurance                            12             1,250           15,000
General Insurance                         12             1,250           15,000
Pensions                                  12             1,250           15,000
Other Financial Institutions              12             1,250           15,000
Risk manuals:
Credit risk                               12             1,250           15,000
Balance Sheet Risk                        12             1,250           15,000
Market Risk                               12             1,250           15,000
Operational Risk                          12             1,250           15,000
Internal Governance manuals:
Policies and Procedures                   14             1,250           17,500
Code of Conduct                           10             1,250           12,500
Travel and per diem costs                                                40,400
Total Practice Manuals                    120                          190,400
(d)    Review of Long Run Goals. The fourth stage involves a forward-looking review of the policies
and practices developed in stages two and three against a long-range plan of where the development of
these should be heading over the course of the next three years in particular, but also over a longer horizon.
The consultants for this component of the project should have a sound understanding of the core
principles of international best practice in the regulation of insurance, pensions, other non-bank financial
institutions and market conduct. They should also have a track record in drafting prudential standards and
regulations and a familiarity with the intemal operations of a regulatory agency.
Review Long-run Direction:                    Days            Rate           Total
(US$)         (US$)
Review standards against best practice         10             1,250          12,500
Prepare long-range strategy document          6               1,250          7,500
Travel and per diem costs                                                    12,120
Total Review                                  16                             32,120
- 31 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.77 million
Staff Training and SkiUls Building
The establishment of an appropriate skill base for the FSC is both the most important and
challenging element of the implementation plan. Without the skills to set regulatory standards and to
supervise regulated institutions the FSC will never achieve its objectives.
The successful consultants should be experts in financial sector training and program design and
should be familiar with the specific training needs for prudential and market conduct regulation. The FSC
must have sufficient staff with sound university qualifications in law, accounting, economics, finance and
actuarial studies. In addition to these foundational skills, staff will need specific training in:
*   principles of regulation;
*   financial markets and instruments;
*   balance sheet analysis;
a   insurance risk modelling and analysis;
3   credit risk modelling and analysis;
*   market risk modelling and analysis;
-   valuation practices; and
-   inspection methodology.
The training and skills building will be achieved in five phases: (a) assessment of the existing skill
base; (b) assessment of skill needs of each stage in the implementation; (c) development and
implementation of a training program; (d) study tours for FSC staff; (e) develop an implementation plan for
skill building; (f) promotion Agency training courses.
(a)    Assessment of the existing skill base. The first stage requires an assessment of the existing skills
contained in the three agencies.
Assess Existing Skill Base                 Days             Rate             Total
(US$)           (US$)
Visit each agency and assess skills        3                1,250           3,750
Draw up a plan of skills and shortages      3                1,250           3,750
Pro rated travel and per diem costs                                          3,498
Total Review                               6                                10,998
(b)    Assessment of the skill needs of each stage in the implementation. The second stage involves
assessing the human resource skill needs of each stage in the implementation plan. This includes
assessment of total staff numbers as well as the skill mix and the gap between existing and projected needs.
- 32 -



Assess Skill At Each Stage                   Days          Rate            Total
(US$)           (US$)
Review Implementation Plan                    2             1,250            2,500
Assess skill needs                             6             1,250            7,500
Draw up a recruitment and training plan        3             1,250            3,750
Pro rated Travel and per diem                                                 6,412
Total Assessment                              11                            20,162
(Note: The work under (a) and (b) above will have a combined travel and per diem expenses of $9,910-
6000 travel remainder hotel and per diem)
(c)    Development and implementation of training program. The third stage is the major element of
this component. The consultants will be required to design a suit of training programs to be delivered
in-house at the new agency.
The staff training cost parameters used in the budget are the following:
Staff Training Cost Parameters:              Per 6-day package of courses
Top End                 Middle
(US$)                   (USS)
Airfare Business Class                          6,000                  6,000
Accomnmodation in Mauritius                      170                     170
Per Diem                                          60                      60
Daily Rate                                      1,800                   1,000
Total/Course                                   18,180                  14,580
In this table, a distinction is drawn between top-end trainers and middle-level trainers. Rates reflect general
levels in the financial training industry. It is assumed that trainers can be brought to Mauritius for one
week, during which they can teach a mixture of different courses, over 6 days.
- 33 -



A list of courses that would need to be covered is the following:
Course                                   Times          Duration  Cost          Total
Offered       (days)     per Day       (US$)
(US$)
Introduction to Regulation                 4              1         2,430          9,720
Introduction to Inspection Methodology     6              1         2,430          14,580
Understanding Life Insurance               2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding General Insurance            2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding Pension Schemes              2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding Securities Dealers           2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding Leasing                      2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding Finance Companies            2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding Deposit Takers               2             2          2,430         9,720
Understanding Market Conduct Regulation    2              2         2,430         9,720
Valuation Methodology                      2             2          3,030          12,120
Assessing Balance Sheets                   2             2          3,030          12,120
Provisioning                               2             2          2,430         9,720
Assessing Impaired Assets                  2             2          3,030          12,120
Enforcement and Rehabilitation             2             2          3,030          12,120
Grading Risky Institutions                 2             2          3,030          12 120
Inspections                                2             2          3,030         2,120
Investig4ations of Misconduct              3              1         3,030         9,090
Moot Court Training                        3              1         3,030          9,090
Investor Protection                        3              1         3,030          9,090
Rules of Evidence                          3              1         3,030          9,090
Professional Conduct                       3              1         3,030         9,090
Financial Markets and Institutions         2             3          3,030          18,180
Securitization                             2             3          3,030          18,180
Derivative Products                        2              3         3,030          18,180
Advanced Insurance Risk Analysis           2              3         3,030          18,180
Advanced Market Risk Analysis              2              3         3,030          18,180
Advanced Credit Risk Analysis              2              3         3,030          18,180
Advanced Govemance Risk Analysis           2             3          3,030          18,180
Total Training Program                                  127       _ _ _          357,210
(b)    Study tours. The fourth stage includes a budget for sending selected staff, for periods of around
one month, to other integrated regulatory agencies to gain first hand-experience in the style and practice of
integrated regulation. This item will not be included under the tender budget for external consultants for
this component of the project.
- 34 -



The cost parameters of each visit are as follows:
Country                  Airfare                 Hotel per Night         Per Diem
(US$)                   (US$)
US                        5,500                   170                     50
UK                         2,500                   170                     50
AUSTRALIA                  2,200                   130                     50
CANADA                     5,000                   170                     50
SINGAPORE                 1,200                   130                     50
It is assumed that visits abroad are for approximately 3 weeks and are offered to the best 10 staff
over a period of the first two years of operation. Total cost is:
Visits (approx. 3 weeks):           Number        Unit Cost       Total
(US$)          (US$)
US (SEC)                             2             10,120           20,240
UK (FSC)                             2              7,120           14,240
Aust (APRA)                          2             5,980            11,960
Canada (OSFI)                        2             9,620            19,240
Singapore (MAS)                      2              4,980           9,960
Total Visits Abroad                  10                             75,640
(e)    Development of an implementation plan for skill building. The fifth stage of this component
involves constructing a timetable for the introduction of training programs that will best benefit the FSC as
it recruits new staff and builds its regulatory capacity.
- 35 -



Implementation Plan for Skill Building              Days      Rate           Total
(US$)         (US$)
Assess needs against training program                3        1,250            3,750
Build a training schedule                             3        1,250            3,750
Total Review                                         6                         7,500
(f)    Promotion Agency Training Programs. The financial sector promotion agency will offer
training courses to the industry professionals. The initial set of courses will be provided under the project.
Most of the training courses listed above for the FSC staff will also be offered to the industry professionals.
The estimated costs of this program is US$300,000.
Some training courses may need to be repeated and the scope of study tours may need to be changed during
the implementation phase. The cost of these changes will be covered from the unallocated portion of the
loan.
Project Component 4 - US$0.40 million
Information Technology Platform
This component will be implemented in two stages. The first stage involves a review of the
currently assessed IT needs of the FSC, including any equipment that it may inherit from the existing
agencies. Costing of this review is presented below.
Implementation Plan for Skill Building             Days         Rate           Total
(US$)         (US$)
Assess IT Plan                                     5             1,250          6,250
Evaluate existing equipment                       2              1,250          2,500
Total Review                                       7                            8,750
The second stage involves procurement and installation of suitable equipment. Implementation will
need to be in step with staff recruiting and training needs. It should not be necessary to involve an external
consultant in this stage.
The cost of meeting the full IT needs of the FSC from scratch is summarized in the following table.
It should be noted that the cost of a site license for the Microsoft operating system has been excluded from
these figures on the grounds that the license can be provided on a leased basis and is more appropriately
treated as an operating cost. If it were to be included as a capital cost, the total cost of the site license is in
the order of 2 million Rp over 3 years ($80,000).
- 36 -



It should also be noted that the figures in the table below are based on an estimated staff contingent
of 80.
Item of IT Equipment          No.      Unit Cost Rp.     Total            US$
PCs                           80       35,000            2,800,000         112,000
NT Server                     1        600,000           600,000           24,000
Unix Server                   1        1,200,000         1,200,000        48,000
Back-up Server                1        100,000           100,000           4,000
Data Base                     1        1,000,000         1,000,000         40,000
Payroll Soft                  1        300,000           300,000           12,000
A/C Soft                      1        500,000           500,000          20,000
Cable/Net (fibre optic)       1        1,000,000         1,000,000         40,000
UPS small                     80       5,000             400,000           16,000
UPS Large                     2        50,000             100,000          4,000
Printers Large                3        92,000            276,000           11,040
Printers Small                6        54,000            324,000           12,960
Laptops                       6        100,000           600,000           24,000
Lines/Routers                 2        280,000           560,000           22,400
Faxes                         16       60,000            960,000           38,400
Scanners                      3       90,000             270,000           10,800
Copiers Lge                   2        500,000            1,000,000       40,000
Copiers Sm.                   4        50,000            200,000            8,000
Phone Syst.                   4        100,000           400,000           16,000
Total IT                                                 12,590,000        503,600
Some of the equipment currently employed by MOBAA and the SEC will be usable. Without
having made a full stock-take of equipment, the following table provides a rough estimate of the equipment
available:
- 37 -



Item of IT Equipment         No.      Unit Cost Rp.      Total            US$
PCs                          30        35,000             1,050,000        42,000
NT Server                    0         600,000
Unix Server                  0         1,200,000         -                 -
Back-up Server               0         100,000           -                 -
MS OSL                       0         670,000           -
Data Base                    0         1,000,000         -                 -
Payroll Soft                 0         300,000           -                 -
A/C Soft                     1         500,000           500,000           20,000
Cable/Net                    0         1,000,000
UPS small                    0         5,000
UPS Large                    0         50,000             -                -
Printers Large               1         92,000            92,000           3,680
Printers Small               2         54,000             108,000         4,320
Laptops                      0         100,000            -                -
Lines/Routers                0         280,000            -                -
Faxes                        6         60,000             360,000          14,400
Scanners                     1         90,000            90,000            3,600
Copiers Lge                  1         500,000            500,000          20,000
Copiers Sm.                  2         50,000             100,000          4,000
Phone Syst.                  0         100,000           -                 -
Total IT                                                  2,800,000        112,000
The total estimated IT cost is therefore $503,600 - $112,000 = $391,600.
This figure may require reconsideration during implementation. Two factors can significantly
impact this estimate. The first is the quality of existing equipment. In addition, the movement of stock
- 38 -



exchange trading onto an automated trading platform may require some additional IT equipment for the
regulator over and above that identified above. Any additional costs will be covered by way of allocated
contingency funds.
- 39 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Oversight and coherence                                       0.01          0.04          0.05
Standards and Procedures                                      0.11          0.37          0.48
Staff Development and Skill Building                          0.15          0.62          0.77
Information Technology                                        0.08          0.32          0.40
Total Baseline Cost                                           0.35          1.35           1.70
Physical Contingencies                                       0.11          0.44           0.55
Price Contingencies                                          0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Project Costsl                0.46          1.79          2.25
Front-end fee                      0.02          0.02
Total Financing Required                 0.46          1.81           2.27
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                           0.08           0.17          0.25
Works                                                           0.00           0.00          0.00
Services                                                        0.27           1.10           1.37
Study Tours                                                     0.00           0.08          0.08
Unallocated                                                     0.11           0.44          0.55
Total Project Costs        0.46           1.79          2.25
Front-end fee                      0.02          0.02
Total Financing Required        0.46           1.81          2.27
identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSmn) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 2.27 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 79. 74% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 40 -



Annex 4
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
The project's benefits are very difficult to quantify. The project's total cost of USS1.81 million
should be considered a very modest investment when the following factors are considered:
* The financial sector in Mauritius has developed reasonably well and it is very important for the
country. For example, the total assets of the Mauritius Financial sector is well over 100
percent of its total GNP and M2/GDP ratio is over 0.75 percent;
*   It is crucial for Mauritius to maintain international confidence in its financial system so that it
can reach its developmental goal of becoming an intemational financial center; and
* It is crucial for Mauritius to fully develop and diversify it finanicial system in order to facilitate
its outward investments into the SADC region.
Given these considerations a project which will cost about less than about half of one-thousandth
of its GNP should yield benefits far greater than its cost.
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Years Ending
1=~~~~~~1
IN Ng
|Year I     Y Yar 2| Year 3| Year 4| Year 5| Year 6| Yea-r 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.7        0.9        0.7        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total ProjectCosts           0.7        0.9        0.7        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
,Total Financing              0.7        0.9        0.7       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.5        0.7        0.7        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.2        0.2        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.2         0.2       0.5        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     0.7         0.9       0.7        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Procurement
General
No special exceptions, pennits, or licenses need to be specified in the Loan Documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Mauritius procurement practices allow IBRD
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
Use of Bank Guidelines
Goods financed by IBRD would be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999) (The Guidelines). Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and Standard
Evaluation Report would be used with appropriate modifications in relation to provisions relating to
"advertising and notification", "currencies of bid and payment", "settlement of disputes", and deletion
of the domestic preference provision.
Consultant services financed by IBRD loan would be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January
1997 revised in September 1997 and January 1999) (Consultant's Guidelines). The Standard
Request for Proposal, as developed by the Bank, would be used for appointment of Consultants and
the Bank's model form for the evaluation of consultant's proposals will be used where practicable.
Simplified contracts would be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months,
carried out by firms or individual consultants. The government delegation was briefed during
negotiations about the features of the new consultants Guidelines, in particular with respect to
advertisement, bid opening and the various steps of IBRD reviews.
Advertising
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has already been published in the United Nations
Development Business to advertise for major consulting assignments above US$200,000 equivalent
and any ICB. It would be updated annually for any outstanding procurement. Specific procurement
notices for goods would be advertised in the national press of wide distribution and internationally for
ICB contracts. Request for expression of interest would be published in local newspapers. Answers
to these expressions would be used to establish short lists. Sufficient time would be allowed
(minimum of 30 days) before preparing the short list.
The related bidding documents, as applicable, would not be released - or the short list for
consultant services would not be prepared - before eight weeks after the GPN has been published.
Specific procurement notices (SPNs) for goods and works would be advertised in the national press of
wide circulation and internationally for large contracts (ICB). Sufficient time would be allowed to
obtain the bid documents.
- 43 -



Procurement Methods
Goods are estimated at US$0.4 million of which US$0.32 million would be fmanced by
IBRD. They include essentially computer equipment To the extent practicable, these contracts shall
be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more and would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Prior review. IBRD-financed contracts for goods above the threshold value of
US$ 1 00,000 equivalent would be subject to IBRD's prior review procedures in accordance with
appendix 1 of the Guidelines. The use of mBRD's standard bidding documents would considerably
expedite the prior review process, as IBRD review would primarily focus on invitations to bid, bid
data sheets, contract data, technical specifications, bill of quantities and other contract specific items.
Consulting Services are estimated at US$1.77 million of which US$1.42 million would
financed by IBRD. They would be: (i) for oversight and coherence under component 1; (ii) for
standards and procedures under component 2 ; and (iii) for staff training and skill building under
component. The staff training and skill building component consists of two parts: (a) courses carried
out in Mauritius by firms and/or training institutes which are expected to cost US$690,000 excluding
contingencies; and (b) study tours abroad by FSC staff which is estimated to cost about US$80,000
excluding contingencies.
Consultants for standards and procedures and the in-country training courses would be
hired based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and cost
evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores Services required for oversight and
coherence component which can be delivered by individuals, would be selected through sole source
approached directly. The government has identified the Chairman of the Australian Prudential
Authority (ARPA) as the source to provide the oversight and coherence related services for the
project. The Bank is very familiar with the capabilities of this source as the Bank itself frequently
uses the services of this source on highly technical matters. The project teamn has found that it is
reasonable to allow the Government's choice in this respect given the fact that: (i) the integrated
financial supervision is very new in the world and there are very few experts in the field; (ii) the
oversight and coherence functions are critical for the project success; (iii) the Chairman of ARPA has
already provided some critical advise to the govermnent and the project is actually follow up on this
advise; and (iv) the inmnediate appointment of the oversight responsibilities are essential for the
project's success as the new Law will take effect on July 1, 2001. Hence, the FSC will legally come in
to existence. A lump-sum contract will be signed between the Government and the consultant for the
oversight and coherence with well defined outputs tied to payments.
Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$50,000 may be comprised
entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified finns (at least three) are locally
available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts,
they would not be excluded from consideration.
As noted above Training services will cost about US$770,000 excluding contingencies and
consists of two parts. The first part (estimated to cost US$690,000) which consists of conducting
training courses in Mauritius will be carried out through QCBS based hiring process of fims or
training institutes. The second part (estimated to cost US$80,000) covers the cost of study tours of
- 44 -



selected FSC staff abroad. These tours will arranged by bi-lateral contacts of the government with
the IBRD's prior review.
Prior review. For consultant services, Bank staff would review the selection process for
the hiring of consultants proposed by the Borrower. Prior IBRD review for the selection of
consultants would include the terms of reference, review of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures,
requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and negotiated contracts. All consultant
contracts subject to prior review. Opening the financial envelopes would not take place prior to
receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. Documents related to procurement
below the prior review thresholds would be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by
auditors and by IBRD supervision missions. The Project Unit would submit to IBRD periodic
procurement schedules detailing each procurement package in progress and completed as part of the
normal project reporting exercise.
All thresholds stated in this section would be reviewed by the Borrower and IBRD on an
annual basis. Modifications may be agreed upon, based on performances and actual values of
procurement implemented. Amendmnents to the Loan Agreement may be prepared as necessary.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed. One supervision mission
every six (6) months would include special procurement supervision for post-review/audits.
The program elements by disbursement category, their estimated costs, and procurement
methods are summarized in Table A below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for
procurement methods and prior review are summarized in Tables Al and B below.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
Low
Procurement Planning
It was proposed that in order to accelerate project implementation, the PIU could proceed
with the initial steps of procurement and selection of consultants before the signing of the Loan
Agreement in accordance with para. 1.9 of the Guidelines and para. 1.11 of the Consultant's
Guidelines on Advance Contracting. The process would follow the required steps up to contract
signing, which would be completed at Loan effectiveness. The Borrower has confirmed its interest in
using this option at negotiations. Draft procurement plans have been prepared during appraisal for all
procurement to be carried out. The plan includes relevant information on goods, and consulting
services under the project as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement process. These
plans will be reviewed by IBRD supervision missions and by the external technical audits
Procurement Status and Proposed Arrangements
Procurement would be managed by the PIU set up in the MEDFSCA, which would include
key staff knowledgeable and experienced with World Bank procurement procedures.
During appraisal the procurement plan for the project were reviewed. The Government
gave assurance that it would: (a) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard
Request for Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (b)
- 45 -



apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (c) update the procurement plan
on a regular basis during annual reviews with IBRD, to compare target times and actual completion,
and transmit it to IBRD, during implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (d)
carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and
performnance, as they relate to the program's procurement experience.
Capacity Assessment of PIU for Procurement, Financial Management and PMR-Based
Disbursement
A Project Implementing Unit (PIU) was established under the tutelage of the Ministry of
Economic Planning, Financial Services, and Corporate Affairs (MEDFSCA) to implement project's
activities. The PIU, headed by the Director of the Ministry, is composed by one Principal Economist,
one Principal Financial Analyst and one Senior Finance Officer, they will be in charge of the project
financial and a procurement management. In addition the MEDFSCA will provide support staff.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB          Other2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.40            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.40
(0.32)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.32)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           1.77         0.00        1.77
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.42)       (0.00)      (1.42)
4. Study Tours for Training         0.00            0.00          0.08          0.00        0.08
Abroad
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.05)       (0.00)      (0.05)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00          0.02          0.00        0.02
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.02)       (0.00)      (0.02)
Total                            0.40             0.00          1.87         0.00        2.27
(0.32)          (0.00)        (1.49)       (0.00)       (1.81)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-46 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS       CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms               1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.05    0.00      1.77
(1.38)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.04)  (0.00)   (1.42)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.05    0.00      1.77
_  (1.38)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.04)  (0.00)   (1.42)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
2. Goods                     >$100,000                  ICB                Value $400,000
3. Services                  >$200,000                 QCBS            $1,720,000 Firns
>$50,000                 Other            $50,000 sole
source contracts
4. Study tours                                         Other               $80,000
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
- 47 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Consultants                                 0.98                           80
Goods                                        0.32                          80
Training-Study Tours Abroad                 0.05                           80
Unallocated                                 0.44
Total Project Costs                          1.79
Front-end fee         0.02
Total                             _          1.81
Statement of Expenditures
Expenses incurred for study tours, i.e. tickets, hotel bills, etc. will be reported on statement of
expenditure basis.
Special account:
Upon loan effectiveness, the MEDFSCA will submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to the
Special Account, drawn from the IBRD Loan, in the amount to be agreed during negotiations. This
special account will be in United Stated dollars and will be located at a designated place by the
Government which is acceptable to the IBRD. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be
USS200,000. Replenishment of funds from IBRD to the Special Account will be made upon evidence of
satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in the SOE's and/or on full documentation for payments
above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted regularly. If ineligible
expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the Borrower will be obliged to
refund the same. If the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the Borrower may be
requested to refund to IBRD amounts advanced to the Special Account.
In order to expedite the project implementation, the government has requested a retro-active facility
of US$ 160,000 to reimburse for the project related expenditures that were incurred by following the
relevant IBRD guidelines. The task team has agreed to this request.
- 48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                  _   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            6
First Bank mission (identification)              03/01/2001                   03/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      08/21/2001   =08/21/2001
Negotiations                                     09/15/2001         L         10/18/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/01/2002                   04/01/2002
Prepared by:
The project is prepared by a team led by Ahmet 1. Soylemezoglu.
Note: A mission took place in the first week of July to finalize the project's design, costing and
implementation arrangements. During the decision meeting on August 21. 200 1. it was found that the
project's appraisal is complete.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality -_.        -_ ._
Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu              Financial Sector                                             X
Jean-Charles de Daruvar            Legal
Gervais Rakotoarimanana            Financial Management Systems
Sylvain Rambeloson                 Procurement
Michael Fowler                     Disbursement
Judite Femandes                    Task Assistant
Amy Champion                       Program Assistant
Michael Pomerleano                 Financial Sector - Peer Reviewer - Quality Assurance Team-n
Alexander E. Flemming              Financial Sector - Peer Reviewer - Quality Assurance Team -
- 49 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
A detailed project implementation plan is in project files.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Formal FMS and procurement assessments were carried out and placed in the project files with
accompanying certifications.
C. Other
Project files also include the Steering Committee Report on the New Regulatory Framework for
Financial Services Sector in Mauritius and all the relevant laws.
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
23-Oct-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                           IBRD         IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P066198        2000 FINANCIAL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT               4.75       0.00                   0.00       0.00       2.19       1.64       0.00
P001921        1998 ENV. SEWERAGE & SAN                                   12.40      0.00                   0.00       0.00       7.93       6.43       0.00
P036030        1996 BIODIVERSITYRESTORA                                   0.00        0.00                  1.20       0.00       0.01       0.09        0.00
P001926        1995 PORT DEV. & ENV PROT                                 30.50       0.00                   0.00       7.00       2.60       9.60        0.00
Total:       47.65        0.00                1.20         7.00       12.73      17.76        0.00
- 51 -



MAURITIUS
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1991                AEF CSL                         0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.19     0.00    0.00
1996                MVCF                            0.00    1.44     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.44    0.00    0.00
1986                Socota Textile                  0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          0.00    1.63     0.00     0.00     0.00    1.63     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comrmitment
FY Approval         Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 52 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MAURITIUS: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project
Sub-   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan   middle-
Mauritius    Africa   Income       Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-vear (mil/ions)                          1.2       659       647                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     3,800       480     4,620
GNI (Atlas method. US$ billions)                         4.5       313     2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                           1.1       2.6        1.3
Labor force (%)                                          1.6       2.6        2.0     GNI                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   41         34        76
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                         71         47        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1.000 live births)                 19         92        28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               15          ..        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    100         55        87
Illiteracv (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      15         38        10                   ..
Gross primarv enrollment (% ofschool-aqe population)    106         78       107         -Mauniius
Male                                                  106         85       106               Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                106         71       105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             1.1       2.6       4.2        4.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 20.7      30.9      26.4       25.7
Exports of qoods and services/GDP             51.2      65.2      64.9       63.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                    10.5      23.6      22.8       22.2
Gross national savinoslGDP                     8.4      26.7      24.3       23.4
Current account balancelGDP                   -12.3     -4.2      -0.5       -0.4      Domestic                    Investment
Interest Davments/GDP                          2.0       1.6       3.2        2.9          s
Total debt/GDP                                41.3      36.9      58.2       57.6     savings
Total debt servicelexPorts                     9.0       8.2       9.8       19.9
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ,.      60.5
Present value of debtlexports                   ..        ..      89.4
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual prowth)
GDP                                   6.2      5.3       3.3       8.0        5.8         -     Mauritius
GDP per capita                        5.3      4.1       2.2       6.4        4.4               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        10.4      6.3       4.2       5.5        6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            40
Agriculture                                   12.4      12.1       5.4        6.0       T
Industrv                                      25.9      32.2      32.5       32.1     20 .
Manufacturinq                                15.3     23.6       24.9      24.5        .
Services                                      61.8      55.7      62.1       61.9      0
%5~   96  97  9R         99    00
Private consumption                           75.5      64.6      65.3       65.9    -20
General oovernment consumption                14.1      11.8       11.9      11.8               -GDI                 GDP
Imports of goods and services                 61.4      72.5      68.4       67.0
1980-90  1990-00      1999       2000      Growth of exports and imports (%J
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                    2.9      -0.9     -28.1       28.5       r
Industrv                                      10.3       5.5       3.7        8.2    10
Manufacturinq                                11.1      5.6        3.0       8.3
Services                                       5.5       6.4        5.9       6.5
Private consumption                            6.7       4.8       4.8        4.9                  u    97   98   99   00
General qovernment consumption                 3.3       4.3        3.8       4.2    -5
Gross domestic investment                      9.0       3.5       -2.7       4.8             -     E.ports     2  Imports
ImDorts of qoods and services                 11.6       4.9       3.1        0.7
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-grouD average. If data are missinog the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 53 -



Mauritius
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
t190     1990       1999      2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                              8
Consumer orices                                 42.2      13.5        6.6       5.1     5
Implicit GDP deflator                           26.6     10.1         4.6       3.8     4
Government finance                                                                      2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                    ..    22.8       20.9       20.0            95    96    97    98    99    00
Current budoet balance                            ..       2.5       -0.3      -1.8                GDP deflator  aCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -2.1         -3.3      -5.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                                 1980      1990       1999      2000       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                               ..   1,201        1,619     1,751     2,500
Suqar                                             -      34        224        260     2000
Textiles                                        ..      634           5         6
Manufactures                                    ..      410       1.004     1,076      1,500. 
Total imports Icifl                               ..   1,616        2.146     2,242     1,000
Food                                            ..      197        276        296
Fuel and enerV                                   ..     131         184       200       500
Capital aoods                                   ..      439        497        528        o
94   95   96   97   54   99   00
Export Price index (1995=100)                      ..      89         95         98
Imoort price index (1995=100)                     ..       97         97         99     |E.ports                   m Imporls
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ,,      91         98         99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990       1999      2000 
(USS millions)                                 1                                         Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of qoods and services                   579    1,724        2.654     2,707
Imports of aoods and services                   695    1.915       2.735      2,775                     96
Resourcebalance                                 -116     -191         -81       -69                         E      l
Net income                                       -23       -8        -29        -32
Net current transfers                                      87         89        85
Current account balance                        -139      -111         -21       -16
Financinq items (net)                            164      154         -11       -25
Chanqes in net reserves                          -25       -42        32         41      5
Memo:
Reserves includinq aold (US$ millions)           113      761        780       867
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                 7.7      14.9       25.2      26.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandino and disbursed             467      974       2.464     2.375
IBRD                                           35       176         96        86                         A:86
IDA                                            20        19         14        14                             1314
Total debt service                                52      154        261       553            G: 767                       308
IBRD                                            4        30         16        23
IDA                                             0         0          1          1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                13        25         10         6
Official creditors                             31        53         35        45
Private creditors                              47        44         47      -273
Foreiqn direct investment                        1       41         21       133
Portfolio eouitv                                0         0               ..                                    F 1,069
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                     6        30          0         0       A - IBRD                     E - silateral
Disbursements                                   8         6          5         4       8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Priate
Principal repavments                            2        16         19        19       C-IMF                        G-Shorl-term
Netflows                                        6       -11        -14        -15
Interest Pavments                               3        14          6          5
Net transfers                                   4       -25        -20        -20
Development Economics                                                                                                        9124/01
- 54 -



Additional
Annex 11
Mauritius - Financial Sector
Brief Description
Mauritius has a relatively well developed financial Sector. Total assets of financial sector of about
US$4 billion, is about 120 percent of its GNP and the M2/GDP is over 0.75 percent. The Mauritian
financial sector has been important for the country's growth over the past decade. The contribution of the
financial services sector to GDP has grown from 10.2 percent in 1992 to 13.8 percent in 2000. The
financial sector is also an important employer in the country. It is estimated that the sector employs
approximately 17,000 people.
The Mauritian financial sector provides a wide range of services. These include payment services,
wide-ranging banking products, all major insurance products (including life and asset accumulation type
schemes), brokerage and other securities related services, foreign exchange related services. Below a
summary of some major financial sector activities is presented.
Banking sector
Mauritius has 11 domestic and 10 offshore banks. Statistics on the financial sector of Mauritius
show that banks' total assets amounted to Rs 111.2 billion as of June 30, 2000. Two banks, namely the
MCB and the SBM, holding about 70 percent of all banking assets, dominate the sector. Deposits held
with banks totalled Rs 84.4 billion, of which Rs 8.2 billion were in foreign currencies.
The Bank of Mauritius regulates both the domestic and offshore banks. The banking regulations
are largely in accord with the Basel core principles. The BOM is also internationally known to be a
reputable regulator and supervisor of banks. The Managing Director of the BOM is presently the head of
the SADC Banking Supervisors Committee.
Insurance sector
The Mauritian insurance sector is dominated by three major companies. According to the latest
figures, these three companies, namely the SICOM, the Anglo-Mauritius and BAI, accounted for about 73
percent of total insurance subsectors assets of Rs 16.7 billion. The three largest Life Offices wrote 77
percent of the total long-term insurance premium income of Rs 3.5 billion. Of the total short-term premium
of Rs 1.8 billion, the largest underwriter accounted for 39 percent of the total non motor premium, while
the top 2 and top 7 general insurers wrote 56 percent and 88 percent respectively. Mortgage loans
accounted for 25 percent of the value of total assets, representing the largest asset class. The industry
ceded 75 percent of short-term insurance premiums, excluding motor premium, to re-insurers. The
dependence of the domestic insurance industry on reinsurance is striking: explained partly by the low level
of capitalization of the companies, but also attributable to the lopsided distribution of risks, which is a
direct result of the dominance of conglomerates in the economy. This over reliance on risk transfer to
re-insurers inhibits the growth in the capital base of the domestic insurance industry and, therefore, its
capacity to retain a greater share of the premiums in the country.
The sector is regulated by the Controller of Insurance. The current legal and regulatory framework
is quite outdated.
- 55 -



Securities
Mauritius has a stock exchange and a central depository system. The total capitalization of the 48
listed companies is approximately US$1.5 billion. Total volume of trading is over 100 million and
Mauritius has the second largest trading volume in the SADC region after South Africa. Total turnover
value is about $20 million.
In the stockbroker sector, three companies, namely General Brokerage, MCB Stockbrokers and
SBM ABN Amro, account for some 75 percent of total market turnover.
Capital markets in Mauritius are currently regulated by the Stock Exchange Commission which
was established in 1988 and became operational in 1989 with the establishment of the stock exchange.
Pensions
The pension sector is characterized by a fragmented licensing regime across the different economic
sectors of Mauritius and an absence of effective regulation. There are no official statistics on this sector but
the total assets of pension funds, including the NPS, are estimated to be in the region of Rs 30 billion
(about $1.2 billion)
All approved pension funds are licensed by the Income Tax Department. In addition, pension funds
not managed by an insurance company are registered with the Registrar of Associations and must submit
annual accounts to the Registrar. There is effectively no supervision and regulation of the activities of
pension funds.
Leasing and Finance Companies
The leasing industry is not currently regulated. The sector is dominated by three players, namely
Finlease, Mauritius Leasing and SBM Lease. Total assets of these companies are about $ 60 million.
The finance companies in Mauritius are largely unregulated except the listed ones which are
subject only to the Stock Exchange Commission regulations. The eleven listed finance companies, which
are the largest finance companies, have a market capitalization of about US$150 million and comprise
about 9 percent of the total market capitalization.
- 56 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24629
MAURITIUS
AoER1tE #$cLROADS 1T                                                           )
OTHR MAIN    S/.-
X *    2  UT-UP A M     S                                        ....
        OTHERTOWNSAND <GE                                  Valoln                    
INDIAN                    1                            <                                                    9l
OCEAN  / \            m                      \                                                                              W
p/0onaorin 9 f t V Ea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u Bleuce (
t ,e cJ)meoco*rge  lr hr th k l io .
R..'
13o   1 G oop T4e dooooaln oloV .tmee :ho ot 4N 1'0
FEBRUARY 1993



