                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 33315




                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (FSLT-70850)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.2 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS

                                     FOR A

                 FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY PROJECT




                                  August 31, 2005




Financial Sector Unit
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 30, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (MUR)
                                      MUR 1 = US$ 0.033898
                                       US$ 1 = 29.50 MUR

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAA     Analytical and Advisory Assistance
BOM     Bank of Mauritius
CAS     Country Assessement Strategy
CISNA   Committee of Insurance and Securities National Authorities
CPIS    Consolidated Portfolio Investment Survey
ESAAMLG Eastern and Southern African Anti-Money Laundering Group
FATF    Financial Sector Action Task Force
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSC     Financial Sector Commission
IAIS    International Association of Insurance Supervisors
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IOPS    International Organization of Pension Supervisors
IOSCO   International Organization of Securities Commission
MFSPA   Mauritius Financial Services Promotion Agency
MOBAA   Mauritius Offshore Business Activities Authority
NBFI    Non Bank Financial Institutions
OECD    Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
RTGS    Real Time Gross Settlement System
SADC    Southern African Development Council
SAFE    South Asia Federation of Exchanges
WBI     World Bank Institute




                             Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                          Country Director:       James P. Bond
                            Sector Manager:       Antony Thompson
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Ahmet Soylemezoglu

                                         MAURITIUS
                        Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29

Project ID: P073594                                                  Project Name: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu                                   TL Unit: AFTFS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project           L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70850
   Country/Department: MAURITIUS                                                           Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P); Standards and financial
                            reporting (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P); Other
                            financial and private sector development (S); Corporate governance
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/17/2001                                     Effective: 04/01/2002                04/10/2002
     Appraisal: 05/15/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/04/2001                                      Closing: 09/30/2004                 02/28/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS/MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC
                                           DEVELOPMENT; GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS/FINANCIAL SERVICES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:                 Antony Thompson                                Gerard A. Byam
Team Leader at ICR:             Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu                          Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu
ICR Primary Author:             Ahmet I. Soylemezoglu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project aims at developing a modern well-regulated financial services industry. The project
will support the establishment of the Financial Sector Commission (FSC) as an effective
regulatory institution for the non-bank financial sector, with the eventual intention that it will
become a single, integrated regulatory agency covering all prudential and market conduct
regulation, which will reside within the Bank of Mauritius (BOM).

The Context. Mauritius has been aiming to diversify its economy away from sugar and textiles.
Becoming a major center of financial services is a central goal of Mauritian policy makers in this
diversification process. Mauritian authorities also understood that this goal could not be attained
without a modern and internationally credible financial system regulation. Consequently, they
have made a decision to develop Mauritian financial system on the back of a world-class
regulatory system and a high technology financial system infrastructure.

Assessment. The objectives of the project were consistent with Mauritius's overall development
goals and the World Bank's Country Assessment Strategy (CAS). Furthermore, the project
addresses international community's concerns with respect to the financial system regulation,
especially in small island economies that can be vulnerable to illicit activities in the absence of an
effective and modern financial system regulation.

The project should also be viewed within the context of the World Bank's overall involvement in
the Mauritian financial sector. The World Bank had been carrying out a policy dialogue with
respect to the financial sector development prior to the project. Two major issues came out of
this dialogue: a) modernizing the financial sector infrastructure; and b) reforming the non-bank
financial system regulation. A World Bank project was implemented to address the financial
sector infrastructure related issues. The Financial Sector Infrastructure Project, which closed on
December 31, 2003, mainly focused on upgrading financial system infrastructure by installing a
modern Real-Time Gross Settlement System (RTGS). This project aimed to assist Mauritius
while it reforms its financial system regulatory environment.

The project was designed with significant preparatory work that was carried out by Mauritian
authorities in close collaboration with the World Bank staff. The Mauritian authorities, through a
blue-ribbon committee that included all the key stakeholders, reviewed the trends in the financial
system regulation in the world. This committee, following extensive consultations with all
elements of the Mauritian society including financial services companies, decided on merging
existing business line regulators (i.e. insurance, securities and offshore financial services) and
extending regulatory coverage to those segments of the financial sector that were not regulated
(e.g., investment companies, pension funds, etc.).

The joint Bank-Fund Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) also validated the project's
objectives. FSAP noted that there were significant voids in the non-bank financial system
regulation and mentioned that the country was addressing these issues through this project.
Therefore, the FSAP concluded that the project's objectives were central to the development of
the financial sector.



                                                  - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
Objectives of the project have not been revised. However, unification of FSC with the
supervision department of BOM was postponed to give time to both FSC and BOM to become
ready. This was recommended both by the Task team and FSAP Team.

3.3 Original Components:


Original components

The project originally contained four components: a) Oversight and Coherence; b) Standards and
Procedures; c) Staff Development and Skill Building; and d) Information Technology Platform.

Component 1: Oversight and Coherence ($50,000)

This component is included in the project for three main purposes: a) to provide expert advice on
the stages of the project implementation process; b) to assist the new non-bank regulator (i.e. the
Financial Services Commission - FSC) to develop its mission and vision as well as an appropriate
organizational culture; and c) to ensure overall cohesiveness of various activities planned under
the other project components.

Component 2: Standards and Procedures ($480,000)

This component aimed to develop all the necessary standards and procedures for the functioning
of FSC. The development of the key regulations and the basic set of rules of carrying out
regulatory functions of the FSC were the main objective of this component.

Component 3: Staff Development and Skill Building ($770,000)

This component was included in the project for the provision of resources and a framework to
develop the required skills within the FSC. This component also made resources available to the
newly established Mauritius Financial Services Promotion Agency (MFSPA) for training of the
financial industry professionals on modern regulatory approaches and the evolving regulatory
environment in Mauritius.

Component 4: Information Technology Platform ($400,000)

This component is included in the project to address information technology needs of the FSC.
This component made resources available for both procuring and installing new IT systems and
incorporating various IT hardware and software that were in use at the Stock Exchange
Commission, Mauritius Offshore Business Activities Authority (MOBAA), and Controller of
Insurance.




                                                 - 3 -

Assessment of Design of Project Components. Each component is designed to meet the
specific needs of a new financial system regulation agency at the initial stages of its establishment.
These needs were categorized and a dedicated project component is designed for each category of
needs. The needs were identified in the following categories: a) defining the overall vision and
mission of the new agency and building an appropriate organizational culture; b) spelling out the
regulatory and operational rules; c) having the required human skills on board; and d) having a
supporting IT platform. Each of these needs are directly mapped into components 1 through 4
respectively as described above. Furthermore, the project design was mindful of the fact that the
activities under each component were needed to be consistent and coordinated with activities and
outputs of other components. In other words, regulatory and operational standards and rules,
skill needs, IT needs should have been integrated in a consistent manner under the regulatory
philosophy and approach that was going to be developed. Hence, while a modular approach (as
opposed to combine all the activities in a single component) was taken for implementation
purposes, the project design did not allow each component to be implemented in an autonomous
way without paying adequate attention to the overall mission and direction of the new agency as
well as the content and pace of the other project components.

The design of each component also offered a specific guidance for its implementation. Standards
and Procedures component specifically required reviewing existing standards and procedures from
the perspective of compliance with the international norms and standards set out by international
bodies such as IOSCO and IAIS. The new standards for the prudential and market conduct
regulation were required to take into account the current compliance situation with respect to
these standards and aim to have full compliance with these standards. Similarly, internal policies
and operational procedures were required to conform to best regulatory practices and modern
governance principles. Skill Building component provided a road map to build requisite skills that
included a comprehensive review of existing skills and detailed training plans. The component for
IT platform required to make the best use of the existing systems and preserving existing data
bases and information while installing new systems. Finally, Oversight and Coherence component
noted that there is no universally accepted ideal regulatory structure and the ideal structure is
usually country specific. Therefore, it required paying an adequate attention to Mauritius specific
conditions while developing new regulatory framework.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project's original components have undergone some changes during implementation. First,
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) funding for IT platform was
cancelled at the beginning of the project. This was mainly due to the FSC's desire of getting an
initial set of IT equipment immediately with the establishment of FSC. The FSC decided to fund
the cost of this equipment with its own funds and procured this equipment consistent with internal
Mauritian procurement rules. Second, the allocation for the training courses of the financial
industry professionals within the Staff Development and Skill Building Component was canceled.
The designated implementing agency for these courses, MFSPA, decided not to fund these
courses with the IBRD loan proceeds. The MFSPA wanted to charge the attendants with a
tuition that is sufficient to recover full costs.




                                                  - 4 -

Component                                                      Cost                   Rating
1. OVERSIGHT AND COHERENCE                                     $50,000.00;              S
2. STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES                                    $480,000.00;             S
3. STAFF DEV. & SKILL BUILDING                                 $770,000.00;             S
4. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY                                      $400,000.00;             n.a

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subjected to a Quality at Entry Review by QAG (Quality Assurance Group of
the World Bank). The QAG panel that reviewed Analytical and Advisory Assistance (AAA) in
Mauritius has conveyed to the Mauritius Country team on the significance and the importance
attached by the Mauritian authorities to this project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project's objective was rated satisfactory as the project succeeded in
assisting with the establishment of the FSC as an effective modern non-bank financial sector
regulator. The project's achievement can best be assessed when a non-bank financial system
regulatory system conditions in Mauritius prior to the project are compared to the current
conditions following the implementation of this project.

Mauritius had a fragmented regulatory system covering the non-bank financial sector activities.
There were four main institutions charged with regulatory responsibilities within the financial
sector prior to the establishment of the FSC: a) The Bank of Mauritius (BOM) responsible for
the regulation of all the onshore and offshore banks; b) MOBAA responsible for all the offshore
financial services other than banking; c) an insurance supervisor responsible for the regulation of
domestic insurance companies; d) a Stock Exchange Commission responsible for the functioning
of the stock exchange and monitoring publicly traded companies. In addition to the fragmented
regulatory coverage, the level of regulation was uneven across the spectrum of financial sector
activities and many important financial sector activities such as asset management companies and
private pension funds were not regulated at all. There was also no clear regulatory framework for
market conduct. In addition, there were serious structural problems such as a lack of adequate
staff, financial resources, and a conflict-of-interest. Understaffing was especially severe in the
insurance area. The insurance controller's office had only two professional staffs with inadequate
training. As a result there was no meaningful oversight over this crucial industry. Both insurance
and securities regulators lacked adequate sources of funds and they were dependent on the
budgetary allocations that could ultimately limit their independence. MOBAA had both business
promotion and supervision responsibilities which created a significant conflict-of-interest. The
project aimed to resolve all of the issues.

The Financial Services Act, which passed in May 2001, merged MOBAA, Stock Exchange
Commission and the Insurance Controller under the newly established FSC. The Financial
services Act not only created the FSC with the merger of these entities but it also gave explicit
authority to regulate previously unregulated segments of financial sector activity and market
conduct of non-bank financial services companies.



                                                   - 5 -

Over a relatively short period of time, the FSC has become a vital institution in Mauritius. It has
managed to reconcile the different organizational cultures that exist in different regulatory
agencies. It has recruited new staff and more than doubled its original staff levels within the span
of three years. It took a major responsibility to modernize the existing legal and regulatory
framework, as elaborated further below. It has also become an internationally known entity by
actively participating in international forums. For example, it successfully hosted the World Bank
Institute's (WBI) regional symposium on the non-bank financial system regulation. The success
of the FSC has attracted considerable attention from other countries in the region. Several
countries sent delegations to consult with FSC and Mauritian authorities on their experience.

Table 1. Major Institutional Changes in Mauritian Financial Sector 2001- 2005

Financial Sector Commission
Financial Services Promotion Agency
Financial Intelligence Unit
National Committee on Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism
Financial Reporting Council
National Committee on Corporate Governance
Mauritius Institute of Directors
Independent Commission Against Corruption


With the increased staff and new organizational structure, FSC has been able to conduct its
regulatory and supervisory activities with greater efficiency. Compared with the low level of
supervision which was previously led by the former supervisors ­ as noted by the FSAP Report
­FSC is now analyzing no less than 2,500 account and financial statements filed by regulated
institutions and listed companies and effected at least 35 compliance visits every year.

An offsite examination and onsite visits have led to recommendatory measures, sanctions and
enforcement actions. The licenses of a number of global business companies have been revoked
after a due process and criminal report to the police made in two major securities market
activities. Two insurance companies have been closed down and are presently under liquidation
procedures.

The FSC has evolved to a draft supervisory framework to determine the risk profile of the
regulated institutions as a basis of its risk-based supervision policies. This will allow it to have a
transparent and pro-active manner in conducting its mandate.

The licensing directorate of the FSC has evolved, the new licensing guidelines to streamline the
process of licensing which keeps a balance between the need not to clog the market entrance and
to make a rigorous application of the Fit and Proper test.

The Policy and Research Directorate of FSC has been very active in the collection and publication
of statistical data and has participated to the numerous IMF statistical programs ­ the
Consolidated Portfolio Investment Survey (CPIS) and the Information Framework ­ and is aiming


                                                   - 6 -

to tighten the statistical disclosures of the regulated industry to the market. The Commission
conducts an annual NBFI Survey annually and is aiming to produce as from September 2005 a
Quarterly Bulletin, which publishes quarterly statistical disclosures.

The FSC is active at international and regional level. It is a member of the International
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) and of the International Association of
Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) and of the International Organization of Pension Supervisors
(IOPS). The Commission is applying to join the IOSCO Multilateral MOU on exchange of
information and international cooperation.

At a regional level the FSC is part of the Mauritius delegation at the FATF-styled regional body,
the Eastern and Southern African Anti-Money Laundering Group (ESAAMLG). It is a very active
member of the Committee of Insurance and Securities National Authorities (CISNA), which is the
Non Bank Supervisory Authorities of the member countries of the Southern African Development
Council (SADC). The FSC was a founding member of the regulatory bodies of the South Asia
Federation of Exchanges (SAFE).


4.2 Outputs by components:
Oversight and Coherence Component. This component is rated satisfactory. This component
provided three main outputs: a) it provided a platform where critical decisions can be analyzed by
taking into account a wide range of international experience; b) it played the role of an honest
broker with knowledge and expertise when competing view points were forcefully argued; and c)
it ultimately served as a quality assurance mechanism. In other words, this component provided a
stand-by expert to consult on wide ranging issues and assist FSC to monitor the implementation
progress of Component 2 and 3. Reviewing draft legislations, identifying needed operational
manuals, skill-set planning, determining training needs, and assisting the FSC to adopt a modern
governance practices were among the key contributions made by this component. In the
governance area, this component facilitated two governance reviews that involved an extensive
self-assessment and focusing directly on FSC's governance: the first one dealt with the
determination of its strategic objectives and its core values and the second dealt with the
delegation of functions between the Board and the Management of the Commission, the
clarification in the role of the Chairman and the Chief Executive and the reporting system of
Management to Board. Consequently, The Board has resolved that the four main areas on which
Committees of the Board need to be set up to maintain a proper control on the activities of the
Commission were :

a.      A Governance Committee (to apply its mind on the processes and procedures, the overall
        risks in the conduct of the affairs of the Commission and the systems in place)
b.      An Audit and Risk Management Committee;
c.      A Human Resource Management Committee (a whole HR Framework has been
        elaborated which encompasses the HR process and procedures, the HR Information
        System, Performance Management System and Skills Gap Analysis and Training); and
d.      A Treasury Management Committee (to determine the policies in the handling of the huge
        reserve funds of the Commission).



                                                   - 7 -

The Governance session also highlights the importance of reviewing and assessing regularly the
quality of the reporting made by Management to the Board. The Board was also invited to
conduct on regularly basis a peer assessment of the contribution of each of the Board members.

Standards and Procedures Component. This component is rated satisfactory. A major legal
reform in financial sector area took place in Mauritius recently. This reform process started with
the enactment of Financial Services Development Act of 2001 that established the FSC and made
amendments to several financial sector related laws. A new Companies Act and Trust Act also
accompanied this legislation. The reform process continued during the implementation of the
project with the assistance provided by this component. In fact, one of the key outputs of this
component was assisting the FSC to perform its advisory functions to the government, as
described in its founding law, to prepare the proposals and lead consultation process and
elaborate the legislative drafts for submission to Parliament.

The FSC spearheaded four major pieces of primary legislation. Firstly, by amendments to the
Financial Services Development Act successively in 2002 and 2005, gateways for exchange of
information and for international cooperation were improved and more efficient enforcement
powers and structures were introduced with adequate process for the imposition of sanctions and
administrative fines. The FSC initiated a wide consultation on draft legislation to overhaul the
securities and investment business areas. The Securities Act, which was later adopted by
Parliament in 2005, regulates the stock exchange and the other market structures and
mechanisms, contains the licensing regime for the operators and investment advisers and other
market intermediaries and consolidates the law on insider dealing and other market abuses. In the
same way, the Insurance Act was proposed by FSC after thorough consultation with the industry.
It seeks to meet international norms and standards in the regulation of the insurance business.
Lastly, a draft law on private pension schemes is under discussion with a national committee in
charge of reforms in the pension business.

Apart from its efforts in developing primary legislation, the FSC has made use of its rule-making
powers to usher in a number of standards, Codes and practice notes in a variety of fields from
Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing to the incorporation of Global Business
Companies. It has also issued its first consumer guide on Motor Insurance as part of its actions
for consumer education.

The legislative efforts paid special attention to comply with international norms and standards as
set out by various specialized international bodies such as BIS, IOSCO, IAIS, FATF, and OECD.
As a result, Mauritius has gained considerable international credibility and recognition.

This component also aided FSC to develop important operational manuals in key areas such as
inspection manuals in insurance and securities. These manuals provided necessary guidance to
conduct its regulatory functions and modus operandi of exercising FSC's authority over non-bank
financial sector.




                                                  - 8 -

Table 2. Major Financial Sector Related Legislation 2001- 2005

Financial Services Development Act 2001
Trust Act 2001
Companies Act 2001
The Prevention of Corruption Act 2002
The Financial Intelligence and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2002
Financial Intelligence and Anti Money Laundering Regulations 2003
Bank of Mauritius Guidance Notes on Anti-Money Laundering 2003
FSC Codes on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing for insurance,
investment companies and management companies 2003
The Anti-Money Laundering (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2003
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism Act 2003
Bank of Mauritius Act 2004
Banking Act 2004
Securities Act 2005
Insurance Act 2005
 Note: A new pension legislation is expected to pass in late 2005. AML Regime is further supported by additional
legislation, Prevention of Terrorism Act of 2002 and The Mutual Assistance in Criminal and related Matters Act
of 2003.



Staff Development and Skill Building. This component is rated satisfactory. Developing
necessary skills was at the core of the project's implementation objectives. This component aided
FSC to make plans for its staffing needs. FSC prepared detailed plans in terms of number and
qualifications by carefully studying its needs and staff configuration of successful regulators in
OECD countries. These plans developed staffing targets and identified training needs.

Starting with an overall of 56 person-strong staff in December 2001, resulting from the fusion of
the three existing regulatory institutions, the Commission has at the end of June 2004 increased its
workforce to a total of 96 excluding the messenger grade. It worked towards a new functional
organization structure with a staff allocation along an established benchmark as shown below:




                                                        - 9 -

Table 3. Staff Benchmarks

                                    Benchmarks           December 2001          June 2004

Supervision/Licensing                   60%                  35.8%                60.4%

Admin/Corporate Services                20%                  61.2%                14.6%

Policy/Information                      20%                  00.3%                 25%

Management/Coordination


Quite strikingly, the gender composition of the staff shows a predominance of 53 percent female
employees over 47 percent male. The distribution of staff in the three main areas of activities of
the organization represents 60.4 percent in Licensing and Surveillance Directorates, 25 percent in
Policy Directorate and 14.6 percent engaged in Corporate Services, an allocation which compares
favorably with the international benchmarks of 60:20:20 respectively.

It is also interesting to bring out the quality of the FSC staff which again affords favorable
comparison with well-established regulators in OECD countries.

Table 4. Staff Composition

                                      Number of Staff: 96
                                     Male: 47%Female: 53%

                         University and Professionally Qualified: 80.2%
                             Of which Professionally Qualified only:
                          20.8%Of which University Graduates only:
                    67.5%Of which Diploma and other Certificate Holders:
                                              11.7%

                                     Of University Graduates
               Professionally Qualified and Univ. Degree: 44.2%Postgraduates:
                                               48%




Immediately on entry, the recruits were provided with a detailed induction course and further
joined the other staff over the year with a full-fledged training course run by international trainers
and specialists focusing on the regulation in each industry and the underlying topics in all the
fields of relevance to the work of the Commission. The total hours of the courses covered not less
than 68 hours for each staff over two years in areas ranging from supervisory strategies and
technical approaches to risk management to international collaboration.



                                                   - 10 -

        A further intake of staff is underway and is due to be completed by September 2005 which will set
        the staff to a figure of 146 while maintaining the same distribution profile as set in the adopted
        benchmarks.

        The FSC implemented a comprehensive training program to bring staff skills up-to-date with
        modern regulatory practices.       Training courses grouped in four main areas: a) Regulatory
        Framework and Risk Based Supervision; b) Insurance Regulation; c) Pension Fund Regulation;
        and d)Securities Regulation. Under these groups a total twenty-two different courses were
        offered. In order to increase the effectiveness of these courses, these were conducted in clusters.
        The Table below gives a summary of training program.

                                             Table 5. Training Details




                              Area of Instruction                    # Days      No. of
                                                                    Training   Attendees
Cluster



         REGULATORY FRAMEWORK & RISK BASED
         SUPERVISION·
1         Regulatory Framework: Training Programme Overview,           1
          Overview of the Financial System and Role of NBFIs                       40
1         Regulatory Framework: Theory and Practice of Regulation      1
          and Regulation of NBFIs


5         Risk Based- Supervision: Risk-based Auditing and Internal    1
          Controls Assessment                                                      39
5         Financial Reporting Systems                                  1
5         Fraud, Forensics, Creative Accounting                        1


5         Risk-based Supervision: Risk-based Inspection                3
          Methodology and Risk Rating                                              44
5         Risk-based Supervision: Risk management and Financial        1
          Products

         INSURANCE REGULATION
1         Insurance Regulation: Introduction to Insurance Business     1
                                                                                   40
2         Insurance Regulation: Products, Markets and Risks of Long    1
          and Short-term Insurance
2         Insurance Regulation: Introduction to Solvency               1
          Supervision




                                                         - 11 -

1     Insurance Regulation: Overview of International Standards   1        40
      and Supervisory Process


3     Insurance Regulation and Supervision: Prudential            5
      Regulation of Insurance: Off-Site Financial Analysis and             40
      Principles of On-site Inspections


5     Insurance Regulation: Market Conduct Regulation and         3        43
      Application of the Inspection Manual


5     Insurance Regulation: Reserves and Risk-Based Capital       2        40
      Calculations ­ Intermediate Level


5     Insurance Regulation: Conducting Inspections and            4        38
      Application of the Inspection Manual

     PENSION FUND REGULATION
2     Pension Fund Regulation: Introduction to Pension Fund       5        40
      Business and Foundations of Regulation


5     Pension Fund Regulation: Inspections and Surveillance       3
                                                                           40
5     Actuarial Analysis                                          1



     SECURITIES REGULATION
1     Securities Regulation: Introduction to Securities Business  4        40


4     Securities Regulation: New Securities Legislation and       4        40
      Related Regulatory Issues


5     Securities Regulation: Broker/Dealer Inspections and        2
      Application of the Inspection Manual                                 38
5     Securities Regulation: CIS Inspections and Application of   3
      the Inspection Manual




    Information Technology.

    This component was dropped due to the urgency of acquiring some key IT equipment at a time
    when the project was just becoming effective. However, it must be noted that the FSC IT staff
    successfully managed to merge various systems utilized by previous organizations and install new
    systems.




                                                       - 12 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project's economic rate of return is very difficult to measure. However, the project's benefits
far exceed its costs. The project was mainly dealt with considerable risks that the Mauritian
financial system was facing. The lack of a modern financial system regulation was threatening the
viability of this sector and thereby making it virtually impossible to achieve developmental
objectives of the country. Mauritius viewed the financial services industry as one of the industries
that can contribute to the diversification of its economy away from sugar and textiles. The
Mauritian financial sector has been growing and contributing to about 14 percent to the GDP.
This sector employed approximately 17,000 people which is quite significant given the total
population of the country. This project, which cost less than about half of one-thousand of the
country's GNP, actually helped the country not only to preserve an important part of its financial
sector but also provided a competitive edge in global markets with its enhanced international
credibility.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n.a.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project made a significant impact on the institutional development in Mauritius. This impact
can be seen in two areas. First, the project has succeeded creating an institutional framework to
address regulatory issues in non-bank financial sector. Second, modern governance practices that
FSC introduced has become a model for Mauritian institutions.

Prior to project, important non-bank financial sector activities were either under-regulated or not
regulated at all. Furthermore, the country lacked a clear framework regulating market conduct of
financial services companies. The legal foundations of regulatory framework consisted of a set of
legislation that passed different times and not always consistent with international norms and
standards. The fragmented nature of legislative powers also created opportunities for regulatory
arbitrage and could make regulator at best hesitant to act in certain circumstances. The project
has addressed all of these issues. The entire financial sector legislation was reviewed and a
number of financial sector related laws were amended as well as new legislation enacted.
Consequently, a sound legal foundation of a new institutional framework was established. This
foundation clarified regulatory authority over the entire spectrum of non-bank financial sector
activities in a manner consistent with international norms and standards. The operational conduct
of the regulatory authority has also been clearly defined. The industry participants and key
stakeholders of the Mauritian society have been extensively consulted throughout this process.
The physical needs, such as premises, equipment, etc, of the new institutional framework were
also provided. The implementation of a comprehensive plan to acquire requisite human skills has
started. The human capital base has already been significantly upgraded.

The new institution has also been provided sufficient monetary resources and it was made not to
be dependent on budgetary provisions. The revenue base of the FSC is solid and sufficient to
meet FSC's expenses and investment expenditures (more on this point later in Section 6.1).




                                                  - 13 -

The FSC has adopted a modern governance principles. The government has made significant
efforts to ensure the FSC is free from any undue influence including political influence.
Considerable attention was given to any existing and potential conflict of interest while appointing
the Board of Directors. Moreover, the FSC Board took the initiative to delineate proper
responsibilities and authority between the Board and Management. The project supported
governance review of the FSC did not only help to sort out many operational issues and define the
role of the Board and the Management with respect to these issues, it also provided an example to
other Mauritian organizations how to adopt modern governance principles.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were many factors outside the control of government which affected the implementation.
The majority of these factors were related to parliamentary actions and consultative process. As
explained above, a rather large legislative agenda had to be pursued. This agenda required many
steps in which there were different set of people and different set of circumstances that cannot be
controlled by the government. Initial drafts by experts, consultative process, legal reviews from
the perspective of consistency with the main body of Mauritian laws, and finally having the
Parliament act on these laws were the main steps to get this agenda completed. Accurately
predicting timing of various activities for such a process is very difficult, if not impossible, in any
country. In addition to inherent complexities of pursuing such an agenda, the government had to
alter legislative priorities by introducing a whole new set of laws regarding Anti-Money
Laundering and Combating Financing of Terrorism in response to the events on September 11,
2001.

Both the government and the FSC have tried to influence the pace and the content of the
legislative process to ensure a steady implementation of the process. While the legislative process
had to be delayed due to unforeseen and uncontrollable circumstances, both the government and
the FSC have made the best efforts not to allow any regulatory voids by way of exercising their
executive powers given by the Financial Services Act and other laws.

Another important factor was getting the initial recruitment completed as quickly as possible so
that training programs could be started. This was dependent on the availability and willingness of
a number of people to be hired. The government certainly could not control this factor. The
quality of the initial response to recruitment efforts was less than desirable. The FSC had to work
hard to ensure that the new recruits possessed pre-requisite skills so that they can be trained. The
FSC has ultimately succeeded to hire additional staff with desired skill levels but it had to push the
training program towards the end of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The following key factors were subject to the government control: a) initiating a wider dialogue
with the financial sector on the need for a regulatory reform; b) seeking out international
experience and best practices in the area of financial system regulation; c) entering a dialogue with
the international community to understand their concerns so that the Mauritius financial services
industry can have international credibility and prestige; d) developing a vision for the future of the



                                                     - 14 -

financial services sector; e) agreeing on an institutional framework that is operationally
autonomous in all areas including personnel regime, and budgetary independence; f) ) appointing
independent and qualified people on the Board of Directors and the hiring of a very experienced
and widely respected Chief Executive of the FSC; g) making the best efforts that the legislative
process stays on track; and h) implementing the procurement process in a timely manner. All of
these factors were critical for the successful implementation of the project.



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The Ministry of Economic Development, Corporate Affairs and Financial Services, which later
became the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, Corporate Affairs and Financial Services, was
responsible for the project's implementation. The factors mentioned above were largely subject to
the Ministry. In addition to the Ministry, the FSC assumed a very important responsibility in
implementing the project. In fact, all the consultants worked directly with the FSC and all
activities were coordinated by it. The FSC also assumed direct responsibility in the recruitment
and the human resource planning. The preparation of necessary inputs and workable environment
for consultants were among the important factors that were clearly under the control of FSC.
The FSC has provided considerable inputs and highly engaging environment for consultants.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original loan amount was reduced due to the cancellation of Component 4 (IT platform) and
the reallocation of the MFSPA courses within Component 3 (Standards and Procedures).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project's sustainability is rated highly likely. This rating is based on the following
considerations: a) the FSC's legal foundations are sound and firm; b) the FSC has already proven
itself a vital and viable organization for Mauritius; c) the FSC has managed to attract quality
staff and its staff level increased significantly over a short period of time; and d) FSC has a solid
revenue base.

The FSC is established by a law. In addition, other key financial sector related laws were
amended to adjust the FSC's role with respect to the financial system regulation. The recent bills
that passed the parliament enforced further the FSC's position and solidified its authority over the
non-bank financial sector.

The FSC has already proven to be an effective and viable organization. Furthermore, it is now
clear that it became vital organization for Mauritius both internally and externally.

As mentioned above, the FSC's staff level almost doubled with plans to increase another fifty
percent very soon. The level and quality of the FSC's staff compares well with similar regulator
in OECD countries. Furthermore, current level of staffing makes the FSC at least a medium size
organization in Mauritius.


                                                    - 15 -

The FSC has aimed to achieve financial independence as a hallmark of its status as a financial
regulator. With a seed capital of Rs 90 million (about US$3 million) obtained from the Capital
Budget, the FSC has over the last three years paid a national Capital Budget an amount of US$14
Million from its surplus revenue and has built up a reserve fund of some US$12 Million. It is true
that this revenue flow suffers from a skewed dependence on the license fees paid by global
business companies. But under the new laws for the securities and insurance industry, the fee
income may be more evenly balanced.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

n.a.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The World Bank's performance during the lending process was satisfactory. The project was a
result of extensive policy dialogue that took place over three years. The World Bank played an
essential role in providing information on international developments in financial sector regulation
and international experience, especially in developed world. The World Bank also emphasized the
need to involve all key stakeholders in the process so that a wider ownership can be attained. The
project design took into account all these factors and finalized after a broad consensus was
reached within Mauritian society as to the institutional framework for financial system regulation.
The World Bank also provided a detailed guidance for each project component. Considerable
flexibility was built in the project as it was recognized that building a brand new institution
required flexibility to respond to evolving circumstances

7.2 Supervision:

The supervision of the project was satisfactory. The supervision team was conscious of the fact
that building a brand new organization and pursuing a rather large legislative agenda required
patience, flexibility and understanding circumstances. It was also necessary not to allow funds
that would not be utilized remained committed. At the beginning of the project, it was
immediately understood that the FSC needed to obtain IT equipment on its own for operational
reasons. Therefore, recommendation was made to cancel the IT component of the project. A
similar recommendation was made once it became clear that MFSPA would rather like to use its
own resources to fund courses for financial services industry professionals. It was also realized
that focusing solely on the FSC training would be better.

Besides quick actions on canceling part of the loan proceeds, the World Bank adopted a flexible
approach to the content of project components. First, the World Bank agreed to widen the scope
of Standards and Procedures component by incorporating additional legal work. Second, the
training programs were put on hold until the recruitment reached to desirable levels. In order to




                                                  - 16 -

maximize benefits of training program funded by the project, the project was extended for six
months due to delays in recruitment caused by factors that cannot be controllable (as explained
above). Third, the Oversight and Coherence component was allowed to be widened so that
important governance problems can better be addressed.

The same Task Team Leader that carried policy dialogue prior to the project and designed it
carried out the supervision from beginning to the end.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The World Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Activities leading up to the project's
preparation and implementation were relevant. The Country Team provided sufficient resources
for these activities. The Sector Manager and the Country Director provided necessary support to
the Task Team. The Task Team followed the implementation process in a very cooperative
atmosphere with the Borrower.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government of Mauritius and all public institutions gave considerable support to the project
preparation. Key government officials assumed the lead role. As a result, a considerable local
ownership and political support was generated during the project's preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Ministry and the FSC worked closely with the Bank's Task team during the implementation
process. They created an excellent environment that was frank and mutually respectful for the
implementation of the project and monitoring its progress. Procurement was carried out in a
timely manner smoothly and in accordance with the IBRD and internal Mauritian guidelines. All
the provisions of the project's legal agreement were observed.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Borrower is the implementing agency. See Sections 7.4 and 7.5 above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory. The borrower maintained a high degree
of ownership and commitment to the project from the very beginning. All necessary actions were
taken in order to build a viable institution. The borrower made best efforts to mitigate inherent
risks and adjusted well to factors that were not under its control.

8. Lessons Learned

The project offers valuable lessons in several areas. First, it demonstrates how important the
financial sector regulation is. Second, it underscores the importance of taking a proactive position
on the financial sector policy issues. Third, it illustrates the importance of the quality of the policy


                                                   - 17 -

dialogue and it provides an example of how a state-of-the-art approach to financial system
regulation could be included in the overall policy dialogue between the Bank and a developing
country. Fourth, it provides an example of an operational framework for a complicated and
relatively new subject which the Bank and the international community had very little experience
in, especially in the developing world. Fifth, there are also important lessons emerging out of the
implementation of the project.

The lessons learned, with respect to the importance of financial system regulation shows, that the
financial system can flourish only at the back of a modern regulatory system in a global economy.
International credibility and prestige are essential to build a modern international financial center.
This credibility can only be attained by having a regulatory system that conforms to international
norms and standards.

This project offers important lessons about the way the policy dialogue can be conducted. The
issues that can threaten stability of important macroeconomic elements should be pursued in a
proactive way in order to maximize the Bank's contribution to the development process. The
Bank should proactively pursue these issues in a way that can facilitate positive results. In order
to achieve positive results the following should also be noted:



l       The Bank plays a better role in providing resource persons and honest brokers among
        the competing interests if the policy dialogue is carried out in a trusting environment
        The trusting environment that was created within the policy dialogue enabled the Bank to
        play a better role as a resource institution. Mauritian policy makers made inquiries about
        various issues and were open to discuss the most difficult issues. Moreover, the Bank's
        was viewed as an honest broker among the competing interest and played an important
        role for various sides to understand and appreciate each other's point of view. This
        environment also helped to focus on the ultimate developmental goals and prevented only
        marginally important issues to dominate discussions and cause loosing of the focus.

l       It should also be noted that trust cannot happen if mutual respect does not exist
        One of the key elements of the establishment of trusting environment was to demonstrate
        the ability that the Bank indeed has skills and knowledge. However, it was equally
        important to state that the Bank does not know everything and would not hesitate to
        entertain reasonable ideas from all sources. It was also important to prove by actions and
        attitude that the respect for confidentiality and appreciation of difficult country
        circumstances are at the center of the Bank's core values.

l       Comprehensive reform programs with extensive legislative requirements can only
        happen with a broad consensus in the society
        The project was realized after about a three-year dialogue and discussion in Mauritius.
        The Bank did not rush the government to decide on a comprehensive reform. On the
        other hand, the Bank encouraged broadening of the debate so that a widespread
        ownership could materialize.




                                                  - 18 -

This project also demonstrates that any positive result out of a proactive engagement in policy
dialogue can be achieved if the dialogue is of high quality. Bringing in best international practices
and informing the government clearly on benefits and risks of a particular undertaking are
essential ingredients of a quality policy dialogue. In addition, this project illustrates that:

l      Developing countries are interested in the recent trends in advanced countries.
       The process which resulted in the decision to set up a unified regulator in Mauritius is a
       very good example of the interest of a developing country in the recent trends in advanced
       countries. In this case, the interest was widespread in the country.

l      The Bank's policy dialogue with developing countries can be enriched by inclusion of
       the discussion of the most recent trends in advanced countries
       The content of the Bank's policy dialogue with developing countries by nature of existing
       problems are usually centered on important macroeconomic issues. These issues must
       remain at the center of the policy dialogue until stable macroeconomic balances are
       attained. However, it is also true that there is also what one could call a "fatigue" of
       constantly and exclusively focusing on the standard macroeconomic issues. Bringing a
       more visionary elements beyond the current macroeconomic problems with obvious
       benefits to overall policy making environment could somewhat overcome this fatigue.
       Moreover, inclusion of such topics enriches the depth of the policy dialogue. Such an
       approach helps the Bank to form relationships with intellectual leaders and broader civil
       society.


The lessons with respect to designing projects to build complicated institutions can be
summarized as follows:

·      The projects should be designed in a simple way
       The simplicity is essential for a smooth implementation of projects that aim to build new
       institutions and to reform important regulatory structures. The simplicity is especially
       needed so that the implementation focus on difficult issues related to the substance rather
       than bogged down with complex procedures. The simplicity also requires clear definitions
       of each project's components so that there should be no confusion about what needs to be
       done and what should be the expected output from each component.

·      Simplicity and clarity can only be attained by a careful appraisal of the project
       Simplicity is generally a product of detailed analysis and appraisal of the situation.
       Enormous amount of analysis and deliberation took place during the preparation of the
       project. The focus of this analysis and deliberation were to find the optimal path that was
       feasible.




                                                - 19 -

The project implementation also offers valuable lessons:

·     Quality control and maintaining overall consistency and coherence across the project
      implementation are essential for projects with modular designs
      Modular designs enable an easier framework for a smoother project implementation.
      However, modularity can cause problems if the activities are highly inter-linked with
      significant feedbacks between each module. The project's Oversight and Coherence
      component was proven to be very effective and most useful. The project provided a
      stand-by adviser to review ongoing work and to discuss implementation issues and
      properly sequence activities.

·     Human capital is the scarcest resource even in the most developed countries of the
      developing world
      Difficulties finding qualified staff are among the biggest challenges in the implementation
      process of the project. Mauritius with a population of relatively higher level of education
      compare to many developing countries and considerable interaction with the rest of the
      world through trade and tourism still needs further development of its human capital base
      to support establishment of modern institutions.

·     Initial governance structure of new agencies and quality and caliber of people involved
      are the most crucial to ensure the success of the new institution
      Getting new institutions started functioning is a considerable challenge anywhere in the
      world. Getting them to build a corporate culture that is consistent with the objectives of
      the organization is perhaps even harder. Hence, quality and caliber of people who are
      tasked to build these organizations are extremely important.

·     Ample amount of flexibility must be built-in to adjust to emerging conditions during
      implementation
      One should be prepared to deal with problems that could undermine the development of a
      corporate culture and governance systems compatible with the new institution's mission
      on a timely manner. The internal governance related problems of the FSC were addressed
      in a very timely and transparent way.

·     Patience, local ownership and political support are essential ingredients of building
      new institutions
      Building of a new public institution is a very difficult task. It cannot succeed without local
      ownership and key political support. In order to preserve these important elements, local
      process must be respected and not to be rushed.




                                                - 20 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following comments were provided by the Financial Sector Commission in a letter addressed
to the Task Team Leader:

We thank you for giving us the opportunity to sight and comment on the draft report you have
prepared.

Let it be said at the outset that it has been an enriching experience to collaborate with the World
Bank on this Project which is so significant at this crucial stage of setting up the Financial
Services Commission. The design of the technical assistance and the implementation method were
key in ensuring what we all agree has been a successful roll-out. The day to day delivery of the
Commission three years after establishment, demonstrates the indisputable contribution that the
World Bank, its advisers and consultants have played in shaping our new supervisory organization
in a modern and effective framework.

Initially it was contemplated that the Commission would after three years merge with the Bank of
Mauritius to form one single, unified regulator and supervisor for the whole of the financial
services sector. However, it became clear that this decision requires review in the light of the
recent developments - as the FSAP report recommended. This remark is in fact the only one that
we would find pertinent to make in response the draft report. Otherwise, we are in full agreement
with the tenor of your report.

We would like to place on record our appreciation for the work and dedication shown by the
Consultants Emerging Market Group (Washington) and Dr Jeffery Carmichael who exercised
comforting oversight through the project. Without their help, the task would have been much
more difficult. Lastly, we would like to thank you also for believing in the project and for giving
the project its inspirational impulse and for investing so much effort in making it work.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Financial system regulations in line with the FSC has been established in line with         FSC's functioning as an effective unified
international best practices.                 international best practices.                 regulator.
Elimination of regulatory arbitrage, wider    Merging of separate regulators and passing    FSC has been exercising its powers not to
spectrum of financial services activities.    of various legislation provided authority to  allow regulatory arbitrage.
                                              eliminate regulatory arbitrage.
Internationally accepted regulatory regime.   The recent legislative reforms have brought   Mauritius gained international credibility and
                                              Mauritian financial system regulation in line prestige with the new laws that passed and
                                              with internationally accepted standards.      effective functioning of FSC.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Consistency of regulatory standards for the   Consistency of regulatory standards           Consistency of regulatory standards was
similar transactions and similar risks        preserved through the first component of the  achieved.
regardless of the type of the financial       project.
company.
Implementation status of the training courses A comprehensive training program              22 courses conducted. Each course was
(14 courses offered during the first year of  implemented. Due to difficulties encountered offered in clusters (that range one to five).
implementation, 15 courses offered in the     in recruitment training programs pushed       About 68 hourses of training per stfaf was
second year; at least 20 people have          forward to maximize benefits.                 done.
attended training during the first year; all
professional sta`ff have attended at least
one.)
Compliance with the new regulatory            Compliance levels were raised. All new        All standards are being observed. Level of
standards within six months after new         standards were observed within six months.    supervision has increased significantly about
standards are issued.                                                                       35 compliance visits implemented per year on
                                                                                            the average and 2500 financial accounts are
                                                                                            being analyzed per year. As a result two
                                                                                            insurance companies have closed down, 59
                                                                                            global business certificates were revoked.
Favorable opinion of the international        Mauritius gained considerable international   FSC became a member of IOSCO, IAIS and
community as to the compatibility of the      prestige.                                     IOPS and ESAAMLG, CISNA and SAFE.
standards and procedures developed by the                                                   Financial system regulation in Mauritus now
FSC to those of the internationally accepted                                                enjoys significant international credibility.
norms.
Acquisition and installation of IT needs by   This component was dropped. It is             FSC's IT platform is currently functioning
12/31, 2002.Efficient functioning of IT       independently implemented by FSC.             well.
platform (99.9 % availability of IT platform
within one month after installation is
completed).

1End of project




                                                                  - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Oversight and Coherance                                      0.05            0.06
Standards and Procedures                                     0.48            0.46
Staff Development and skill Building                         0.77            0.58
Information Technology                                       0.40            0.00
Contingency                                                  0.35            0.01

Total Baseline Cost                                          2.05            1.11
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.55
                        Total Project Costs                  2.60            1.11
                                        Front-end fee                        0.02
                  Total Financing Required                   2.60            1.13


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.40             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.40
                                   (0.32)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.32)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         1.77         0.00          1.77
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.42)         (0.00)       (1.42)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.08         0.00          0.08
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.05)         (0.00)       (0.05)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.02         0.00          0.02
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.02)         (0.00)       (0.02)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.40             0.00         1.87         0.00          2.27
                                   (0.32)          (0.00)      (1.49)         (0.00)       (1.81)




                                                - 23 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              1.11             0.00              1.11
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.89)            (0.00)           (0.89)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.02             0.00              0.02
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.02)            (0.00)           (0.02)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              1.13             0.00              1.13
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.91)            (0.00)           (0.91)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project's economic rate of return was very difficult to measure. However, the project's
benefits far exceed its costs. The project was mainly dealt with considerable risks that the
Mauritian financial system was facing. The lack of a modern financial system regulation was
threatening the viability of this sector and thereby making it virtually impossible to achieve the
developmental objectives of the country. Mauritius viewed the financial services industry as one
of the industries that can contribute to the diversification of its economy away from sugar and
textiles. The Mauritian financial sector has been growing and contributing to about 14 percent to
the GDP. This sector employed approximately 17,000 people which is quite significant given the
total population of the country. This project, which cost less than about half of one-thousand of
the country's GNP, actually helped the country not only to preserve an important part of its
financial sector but also provided a competitive edge in global markets with its enhanced
international credibility.




                                                  - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count             Specialty                        Progress         Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               04/17/2001                    1    Financial Sector                      S                S
               04/25/2001                    1    Legal                                 S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/15/2001                    1    Financial Sector                      S                S
               09/13/2001                    1    Legal                                 S                S
                                             1    Financial Management Systems          S                S
                                             1    Procurement                           S                S
                                             1    Disbursement                          S                S
                                             1    Program Assistant                     S                S


 Supervision

               05/11/2002                    1    TTL, FINANCIAL SECTOR (1)             S                S


 ICR
               08/01/2005                    1     TTL, Financial Sector                S                S
                                             1     Program Assistant                    S                S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     **
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       17.88                       63,974.50
  Supervision                                 35.21                     144,959.97
  ICR                                             5                       22,584.00
  Total                                       58.09                     231,518.47
**Preparation costs cannot be assessed as current system combines all costs under the four stages of the
projects under Lending.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Financial sector development




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Mission Aide-Mémoires
New Legislations
FSC Manuals and Handbooks




                                      - 29 -

- 30 -

