Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7085 MAS 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Supervisory Authority Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 10, 2002 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7085 MAS 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 10, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this  Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said Interest 
Period; 
(b) 
“FSC” means the Financial Services Commission, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Financial Services Act dated May 15, 2001; 
(c) 
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date being 
Page  3
-
2
-
the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which said Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn; 
(d) 
“MEDFSCA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economic Development, 
Financial Services and Corporate Affairs;  
(e) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan satisfactory to the Bank 
adopted by the Borrower on April 13, 2001, which contains, 
inter alia,
 the operating 
procedures for carrying out the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time and 
such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Plan;  
(f) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one million eight hundred and 
ten thousand dollars
 
($1,810,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of 
the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal 
to eighteen thousand one hundred dollars ($18,100).  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five one-
hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the 
Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount 
of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 1 and December 1, the first such installment to be payable on the tenth 
(10th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fifth (25th)
 
Interest Payment Date 
following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each installment except for 
the last one shall be equal to one-sixteenth (1/16) of said Disbursed Amount.  The last 
installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding amount of said Disbursed Amount.  
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any one 
or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after December 1, 2016, the Borrower shall also 
pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this Section, 
in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted 
by
the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable 
to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest Period shall be 
changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines. 
 (d) 
The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to Conversions agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MEDFSCA with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and financial 
sector practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
Page  7
-
6
-
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than twelve (12) months from the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i)  
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for 
the six-month period following the period covered by said report, 
Page  8
-
7
-
and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
Management Report for such period.
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the Financial Services Act of the Borrower, dated 
May 15, 2001, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the implementation of  the Project. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Termination 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Government House 
 
Port Louis 
 
Mauritius 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN  4247 
  (230) 
211 
5101 
 
Port Louis 
 
EXTERN IW 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MAURITIUS 
 
By 
                                   /s/ Usha Jeetah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
                             /s/ Hafez Ghanem 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
320,000 
80% 
 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 980,000 
80% 
 
 services 
 
 
 
(3) Training 
and 
 
50,000 
80%  
 study 
tours 
 
 
 
(4)      Fee     
18,100 
 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
441,900 
 
_________
TOTAL 1,810,000 
 
======== 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of any Category set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and 
until the Borrower shall have paid to the Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $160,000 may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (2) before that date but after April 1, 2001. 
Page  12
-
11
-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (i)  expenditures for goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 each; (ii) consultant services provided by firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 each; (iii) consultant services provided by individuals under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 each; and (iv) training, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the establishment of the FSC as an 
effective regulatory institution in the non-bank financial sector, which will eventually 
become a single integrated agency covering all prudential and market conduct regulation. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Project Oversight
1. 
Ensuring the coherence of the various parts of the Project through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
2. 
Development of a mission and a vision for FSC, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
Part B
:
Standards and Procedures
1. 
Carrying out a review of prudential standards and market conduct regulation, 
identification of existing internal policies and procedures manuals, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
2. 
Development of prudential standards for insurance, pensions, security dealers and 
other non-bank financial institutions that warrant prudential regulation and preparation of 
new regulations for market conduct, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
3. 
Development of internal policies and procedures manuals covering inspection 
processes, data analysis and internal controls over expenditures and conduct, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training. 
4. 
Carrying out a review of long range policies and practices. 
Part C
:
Staff Training and Skill Building
1. 
Carrying out an assessment of existing skills, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
2. 
Carrying out an assessment of the human resource skill required for each stage of 
the implementation of Part B of the Project, through the provision of the technical advisory 
services. 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
Development and implementation of a training program for FSC staff including 
study tours to address skill gaps identified in paragraphs 1 and 2 above. 
Part D
:
Information Technology Platform
1. 
Carrying out a review of currently assessed information technology requirements of 
FSC, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
2. 
Acquisition and installation of equipment following the review in paragraph 1 
above. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  16
-
15
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
Page  17
-
16
-
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  
However, the exception to prior review by the Bank shall not apply to the contracts for study  
tours of selected FSC staff abroad, regardless of their estimated cost. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project a Project 
Implementation Unit (PIU) within MEPFSCA to carry out the Project.   The PIU shall be 
headed by the Director of MEPFSCA and composed of a Principal Economist, a Principal 
Financial Analyst and a Senior Finance Officer. 
2. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and shall not amend it or waive any provision thereof, which in the 
opinion of the Bank will materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, no later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the calendar quater preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, no later than four weeks after the submission of the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  20
-
19
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
 if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categoryies shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
Page  21
-
20
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank 
shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.  
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
1. 
Consistency of regulatory standards for similar transactions and similar risks 
regardless of the type of  financial company. 
2.  
Implementation status of the training courses: fourteen training courses offered 
during the first year of implementation of the Project; fifteen training courses offered during 
the second year of implementation of the Project; at least twenty FSC staff have attended the 
training courses during the first year of implementation of the Project; all professional FSC 
staff have attended at least one training course by the end of the first eighteen months of 
implementation of the Project; and the trainer assessment reports and industry surveys 
indicate sufficiency of trainees. 
3.  
Compliance with the new regulatory standards within six months after new 
standards are issued. 
4.  
Favorable opinions of the international community as to the compatibility of the 
standards  and procedures developed by FSC to those of the internationally accepted norms. 
5.  
Acquisition and installation of information technology needs by December 31, 2002. 
6. 
Efficient functioning of information technology platform as measured by the 
standard information technology performance measures. A 99.9 percent availability of 
information technology platform within one month after installation is completed. 
 
