Report No. 1276-BA                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Second Ports Project
Burma
December 8, 1976
Projects Department
South Asia Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



'Currr_icy Equivalents
1 Kyat (k) (100 Pyas)   =    US$0.147
K 1 million                    US$147,058
US$1                      =    K 6.80
Weights and Measures
1 foot (ft)              =    0.305 meters (m)
1 miles (mi)             =    1.609 kilometers (km)
1 pound (lb)             =    0.45 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (ton)               1.02 metric tons
Glossary of Abbreviations
BAC       -    Burma Airways Corporation
BDC       -    Burma Dockyard Corporation
BFSSC     -    Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation
BPC       -    Burma Ports Corporation
BRC       -    Burma Railways Corporation
CCTC      -    Central Corporation of Transport and Communications
CMCC      -    Central Movement Co-ordination Committee
GOB       -    Government of the Union of Burma
IWTC      -    Inland Waterways Transport Corporation
KKY       -    "Kyant Khaing Yay"
MOC       -    Ministry of Construction
MOPF      -    Ministry of Planning and Finance
MOT       -    Ministry of Trade
MOTC      -    Ministry of Transport and Communications
RTC       -    Road Transport Corporation
TNY       -    "Thaung Naing Yay"
UGCF      -    Union Government Consolidated Fund
NOTE: DATUM means lowest low water level
Government of the Union of Burma - Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31



li 1i RHtA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................    i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                       1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..........................................                       2
A.   Economic  Setting  ................................                    2
B.   The Transport  Sector  ............................                    3
C.   Transport Planning & Coordination  ....                 ...........    4
III.    THE PORT OF RANGOON  .................................                       5
A.   Organization and Administration  ....                  .............   5
B.   Staff and Labor  .................................                     7
C.  Port Facilities  .................................                      7
D.   Dredging  ........................................                     9
E.   Operations  ......................................    10
IV.    INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT  ..................    11
A.   Investment Program  ..............................    11
B.  The Project and the Proposed Credit ..............    11
C.  Project Cost Estimates  ..........................    12
D.   Project  Execution  ...............................    13
E.   Consulting Services/Training  ....................    13
F.   Procurement  and Disbursement  ....................    14
V.    ECONOMIIC EVALUATION  .................................    14
A.   The Project  and the Third Plan  ..................    14
B.   Traffic  Forecast  ................................    15
C.   Benefits  ........................................    17
D.   Economic  Return  .................................    19
VI.    FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ................................    19
A.   Accounts,  Audit,  Control by Government  ....               ......    19
B.   Tariffs  .........................................    20
C.   Past Earnings  and Present Financial  Situation   ...   21
D.   Financial Forecasts  .............................    21
E.   The Financial Plan ...............................    23
VIi.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................                       23
This report was written by Messrs. D. Perfrement, J. Spencer and
0. J. Rahkonen (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Details of Transport System and Agencies
2.   Government Agencies concerned with Transportation
3.   Cargo Handling Equipment owned and operated in Rangoon
Port
4.   Particulars of pontoons, bridges and sponsons
5.   Particulars of BPC major vessels
6.   Project Description
7.   Implementation Schedule
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   Forecast Freight Traffic, Rangoon Port, 1975/76-1991/92
10.   Details on Economic Evaluation
TABLES
1.   Volume and Value of Major Exports by Commodity
2.   Estimated Total Transport Volume
3.   Total Transport Work Undertaken by State-owned Transport
Agencies
4.   Investment Program 1976/77-1981/82
5.   Project Cost Estimates
6.   Exports and Imports
7.   Total number of days on which ships at indicated draft
could not enter or leave Rangoon
8.   Project Cost and Benefits
9.   Shipping Costs with Project
10.   Shipping Costs Without Project
11.   Revenue and Expenditure Accounts for 1971/72-1975/76
12.   Balance Sheet at March 31, 1976
13.   Forecast Revenue and Expenditure Accounts for 1976/77-1981/82
14.   Source and Disposition of Funds Forecast 1976-1982
15.   Forecast Balance Sheets 1977-1982
16.   Transportation Network
17.   Inventory of Transport Facilities
18.   Forecast Traffic by Main Public Transport Agencies
19.   Development of Burma's Overseas and Coastal Shipping Traffic
20.   Forecast Destination of Exports and Origin of Imports
21.   Minimum Investments required to maintain Rangoon Port in its
present condition up to year 1980/81
22.   Project Costs and Benefits maintaining the present conditions
23.   Project Cost and Benefits on Incremental Investment
CHART
Burma Ports Organization Chart (World Bank 16387)
MAPS
1.   Port of Rangoon (BP-1)
2.   Areas of Dredging for Deepening Channel (BP-2)
3.   Burma Map (10044R1)



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
(i)       The Association has been asked to assist in financing a project for
deepening the Rangoon Port sea access channel, necessitating a major overhaul
of a dredging vessel, and the provision of cargo handling equipment, spares
for existing equipment and vessels and materials for replacement of pontoons.
The project and the request for the Credit follow a UNDP financed study in
1974/75.
(ii)      The channel deepening will permit vessels of up to 15,000 DWT to
enter or leave the port at most states of the tide and will bring about consid-
erable savings in shipping costs to the country. The remainder of the project
is essentially one of rehabilitation of and replacement of worn-out equipment
which will bring about economies in cargo handling. The proposed Credit, of
US$10.0 million would assist in financing the second Burma ports project and
it would be the sixth Bank Group lending operation in the transport sector.
The total project cost is estimated at US$16.0 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange content of US$10.0 million equivalent. The proposed IDA
Credit would provide the total foreign exchange requirement.
(iii)     The management of the Port of Rangoon is entrusted to the Burma Ports
Corporation (BPC). The efficiency of BPC is suffering badly from lack of ade-
quate spares caused by insufficient allocations of foreign exchange. As a
result, vessels and equipment are out of service and cargo handling costs have
increased. The proposed project will enable the Port to meet its future re-
sponsibilities by making provision for the spares and equipment of which it
has been deprived in the past. Foreign trade through the port has decreased
in recent years as a result of a general economic slow-down. However, there
is potential for more rapid growth, which together with recent changes in
Government policies is expected to result in a restoration of traffic volumes
to the level of the early 1970's.
(iv)      Items to be financed by the Association will be procured through
international competitive bidding except for some spare parts costing about
US$0.75 million equivalent. The rehabilitation of the dredgers will be on the
basis of selective international bidding. The project makes provision for
training, improved maintenance procedures and the appointment of a Dredging
Manager.
(v)       Project benefits in the form of reduced ship waiting times, reduced
shipping costs from the use of larger ships and improved cargo handling equip-
ment, almost all of which will accrue to the Burmese economy, have been
estimated to produce an economic rate of return on the project investment of
37%. The return would remain high at about 25% with a 20% increase in costs
and a 20% reduction in benefits.



- ii -
(vi)      The financial position of BPC is sound; it has for many years earned
a surplus from operations lut it is likely some tariff increases will be re-
quired as a result of proposed investments causing higlher chairges for deprecia-
tion and loan interest. A covenant is proposed requiring that earnings from
port operations shall be not less than 6% of net fixed assets in use, which
should ensure BPC is capable of meeting its debt service and making adequate
provision for future investment. The proceeds of the Credit are to be re-
loaned by the Government to BPC at 9% interest, repayable over FIFteen years
including three years grace.



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Union of Burma and the Burma Ports Corpora-
tion (BPC) have asked the Association for a Credit of US$10.0 million equiv-
alent to finance part of the foreign exchange cost of its investment program
during the three years 1977/78-1979/80, a period covering the last year of
Burma's Second 4-Year Plan and the first two years of the Third 4-Year Plan.
The request for the Credit follows a UNDP financed study in 1974-75, for
which the Bank acted as executing agency. The study, made at the request
of the Government of Burma, reported on the feasibility of deepening the
Rangoon Port sea access channel together with associated port improvement
works. The study was carried out by Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (UK) and
Nedeco (Netherlands). The final report proposed a long term program of in-
vestment for the Port of Rangoon and demonstrated, inter alia, the feasibility
of deepening the channel by 3 feet.
1.02      Equipment and installations of the port of Rangoon have degenerated
to an unsatisfactory condition mainly as a result of inadequate allocations of
foreign exchange in past years for essential spares and replacements. It is
now essential to repair these omissions and thereby avoid a situation where
the port would otherwise become a bottleneck in serving the demands of the
country's growing economy. Furthermore, the deepening of the access channel
will permit the use of larger ships resulting in cost savings for the Burmese
economy. Other savings will arise from the rehabilitation of equipment.
1.03      The project is designed to provide for a major overhaul of a dredger
vessel, rehabilitation of other BPC vessels and procurement of navigational
aids, cargo handling equipment, pontoons and ancillary equipment. The overhaul
of the dredger is needed to carry out the work of deepening the channel by
3 feet, and maintaining it at that level; other rehabilitation work and cargo
handling equipment is required to enable BPC to deal with expected traffic
with improved efficiency. BPC is suffering badly as a result of vessels and
equipment being out of service through the lack of essential spares. This
situation has tended to increase the cost of handling cargo through the port;
the project is intended to reduce these costs and to avoid further cost in-
creases, which would be occasioned by further deterioration of BPC's equipment.
1.04      This would be the second Bank Group project in Burma for ports and
the sixth in the transport sector.  The first loan for BPC, in 1956 (Loan
140-BA), helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facil-
ities and the purchase of cargo handling and other equipment.  Two loans and
one IDA credit, together totalling US$36.05 million equivalent have been made
for Burma Railways Corporation (BRC) since 1956, the latest (414-BUA) in 1973
for US$16.7 million equivalent, helping to finance reconstruction and the
introduction of dieselisation; an IDA Credit (413-BUA) for US$16.3 million



- 2 -
equivalent to the Inland Waterways Transport Corporation (IWTC) in 1973
assisted the rehabilitation and acquisition of vessels and the provision of
engines and other equipment and spares. The earlier transport projects were
completed satisfactorily but the most recent projects for BRC and IWTC which
were the first Bank Group lending operations for Burma after activity resumed
in 1971, have both been subject to some delay.
1.05      This report was prepared on the basis of information contained in
the UNDP study referred to above (para. 1.01), on information supplied by the
Government of the Union of Burma and the BPC, and on the findings of an
appraisal mission in June 1976, composed of Messrs. D. Perfrement (Engineer),
J. Spencer (Financial Analyst), and 0. Rahkonen (Consultant economist).
II. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Over the last ten years 1965/66 - 1975/76, real GDP grew at an aver-
age annual rate of 2.3%. The fastest growing sector was social and admini-
strative services (6.8% annual increase) of which administrative services were
clearly in the lead.  The growth of directly productive sectors (2.0% p.a.)
lagged behind population growth (2.2% p.a.). According to the latest Bank
Economic Report 1/ the disappointing rate of economic growth has largely been
due to the neglect of agriculture, forestry, mining and transport.  Agricul-
ture which accounts for 27% of GDP, received an average of 7% of public in-
vestment during the last five years and only achieved a rate of growth of 1.7%
p.a. over the last decade. The production of paddy, the main export commodity,
remained virtually stagnant in the face of rapid population growth.
2.02      The disappointing performance of agriculture, which accounts for
60% of exports, greatly affected the external sector and consequently the
volume of traffic through Rangoon port. In index terms, volume of exports
were down from 100 in 1964/65 to about 40 in 1974/75, or from 1,850,000 to
745,000 tons. There was a slight improvement of the index to 45 in 1975/76
due to increased export of rice (Table 1).
2.03      However, a review of sectoral resource potentials indicates that
Burma should be able to achieve a much more rapid growth rate than has pre-
vailed in the recent past. The government has recently reordered economic
priorities, emphasizing the importance of achieving higher growth rates in
agriculture, forestry, fisheries and mining. In addition, the Government
has revised its pricing policy in procurement of agricultural commodities
and is in the process of decentralizing its control over the Government
Corporations by placing their functions on a more autonomous basis. Although
the effect of these measures is likely to be gradual, it may be expected that
1/   Development in Burma:  Issues and Prospects, vols. I and II,
Report No. 1024-BA, May 2, 1976.



the economic perfornance will be somewhat better than in the recent past.
The proposed second port project, will, together with other ongoing lending
operations contribute in achieving this goal.
B.   Transport Sector
2.04      Burma's geography (see map IBRD-10446) is such that over the cen-
turies economic activities developed along the banks of the River Irrawaddy,
its tributary the Chindwin and the myriads of river-arms of the Irrawaddy
Delta. Thus, historically, coastal and inland water transport has been the
most important element of the transport sector. With development of inter-
national trade and shipping, the port of Rangoon was established in the late
1870's and gradually expanded over the next eighty years. Simultaneously and
complementary to the inland water system, the railway construction was started,
resulting in the creation of a second major transport system, linking other
important centres with Rangoon. Later, other sTnaller coastal ports were
developed (map) and roads constructed to complement the rest of the transport
system.
2.05      The transport system is essentially concerned with moving the agri-
cultural products of the Delta and Central Burma to such population and ex-
port centres as Rangoon, Mandalay, and Bassein, as well as to the less fer-
tile regions of Upper Burma. Forest products, minerals and oil move south-
ward from central and Upper Burma to the Rangoon area for processing, redis-
tribution and/or export.
2.06      Relatively good traffic data exist for the two major modes - rail-
ways and ports - maintained by the Burma Railways Corporation (BRC) and the
Burma Ports Corporation (BPC). Less accurate traffic data exists for road
and inland water transport, but the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF)
prepares annual estimates of traffic carried by all modes of transport. I/
According to the MOPF, the total volume of freight transport grew at an aver-
age annual rate of about 3% between 1961/62 and 1974/75, reaching 47.4 mil-
lion tons in the latter year (Table 2).
2.07      In 1974/75 the MOPF estimated that about 60% of the total freight
traffic was short haul, while the remaining 40% was about equally divided
between medium and long haul. 2/ There has been some tendency for the long
haul traffic to increase its share of the total traffic. State-owned trans-
port organizations catered for about 11% of the total transport volume in
1974/75, while private operators handled the remaining 89%.  The share of
state-owned transport organizations was about 13% in 1961/62 according to
MOPF (Table 2).  The estimated break-down of traffic carried by state-owned
1/   Published annually in the "Report to the Pyithu Hluttaw on the Finan-
cial and Social Conditions of the Socialist Republic of the Union of
Burma".
2/   Short haul is defined by the Government as distance up to 25 miles,
medium from 25 to 75 miles, and long over 75 miles.



- 4 -
organizations is provided in Table 3. Burma Railways Corporation (BRC)
carried 42% of the publicly carried freight traffic in 1974/75. The share of
the Road Transport Corporation (RTC) was about 8%, the Inland Water Trans-
port Corporation (IWTC) 49%, and that of the Burma Airways Corporation (BAC)
was insignificant at less than 1%. For passenger traffic the corresponding
percentages were 66% (BRC), 22% (RTC), 8% (IWTC), and 4% (BAC). Details on
the various modes of transport are provided in Annex 1. A description of the
Burma Ports Corporation (BPC) is provided in the next chapter.
2.08      Inadequate repair and maintenance facilities, lack of spare parts
and insufficient procurement of replacements, are reflected in a low level of
efficiency in the various transport entities. This applies in particular to
Rangoon port, which may become a serious bottleneck for an economic recovery
unless the proposed replacement and rehabilitation works are undertaken to
avoid a further deterioration of the Rangoon sea access channel and in the
cargo handling equipment and other port facilities. In other modes of trans-
port these problems are being alleviated through the two ongoing IDA supported
projects within the inland waterways and railways (para. 1.03), while the
preparation of a project within the road sector has just been started, the
Bank acting as the executing agency for a UNDP financed feasibility study.
Together with the proposed second port project, the Bank will have provided
assistance within all major modes of transport in Burma. These will, however,
help to solve only the most immediate deficiencies and further development
work will be needed over the longer term within all of these modes.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.09      The transport sector, excluding highway planning and construction,
is under the authority of the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC).
Highway planning and construction come under the Ministry of Construction
(MOC). The MOTC is responsible for enforcing Government policies regarding
transportation by: (a) approving the budgets of the transport agencies in
consultation with the MOPF; (b) appointing officers of the transport agencies;
(c) setting tariffs and tariff policy; and (d) enforcing regulations for the
operation of the sector. Annex 2 describes the functions of the agencies
related to the transport sector.
2.10      Following independence and particularly since 1962, the Government
policy has been to progressively nationalize the transport sector and to in-
crease its control over the sector, principally by abolishing the financial
autonomy of transport agencies and by regulating the movement of controlled
goods through central movement coordination committees. Railway (BRC), air
(BAC) and ocean-going shipping (BFSSC) are entirely nationalized; private
sector activity is allowed in trucking, inland water transport and coastal
shipping, which carry, as indicated in para. 2.07, almost 90% of the total
freight traffic.
2.11      The allocation of government-controlled freight traffic (e.g. rice,
oil, coal, cement, fertilizer) is made through the Central Movement Coordina-
tion Committee (CMCC) by utilizing the available public sector capacity and



- 5 -
satisfying remaining demand through private operators, who are also free to
carry decontrolled commodities, mainly foodstuffs for local consumption.
Spare parts for private operators are made available through the Ministry
of Trade (IOT) but allocations have been insufficient to provide for proper
maintenance of private sector vehicles and craft, which are generally old and
in poor condition. However, the role of the private sector will remain im-
portant in the foreseeable future, as the public sector is likely to be short
of capacity and the private sector continues to carry a substantial part of
the traffic.
2.12      Transport planning and coordination is undertaken within the context
of the overall national planning system. This planning is essentially target
oriented and based on objectives established by the Party Congress for a
20-year plan. Within the terms of reference given in the 20-year plan,
the Party then outlines targets of a 4-year plan. The administration does not
appear to play an active role in plan formulation. The MOPF functions mostly
to amalgamate proposals to make them consistent and to prepare guidelines for
the respective departments, in this case for the MOTC, which then prepares a
4-year plan for the whole transport sector with allocation for the various
modes and modal agencies. Some reconciliation is attempted but given the weak
information base, this exercise is difficult. It does not seem either, that
a realistic evaluation of resource availability is made when the planning
process starts, with the result that the links between the budget and the
plans are tenuous at best.
2.13      Improvements to this situation have however been introduced both at
the central government and the agency level. A new division was established
in early 1976 within the MOPF for progress reporting and project evaluation.
MOTC appears likewise to be aware of the allocation problem within the sector
and is giving increased emphasis on this subject to all its transport agencies.
At the agency level, the Government is in the process of reintroducing greater
autonomy and the requirement to operate on a commercially viable basis.
2.14      The Burma Ports Corporation (BPC) operates already largely on such
a basis and applies a relatively flexible and realistic planning procedure.
BPC is also keen to improve further its planning capabilities by further
development of a planning unit attached to the office of the Managing Director.
Provision has been made in the proposed credit for training of suitable plan-
ning personnel.
ITI. THE PORT OF RANGOON
A.   Organization and Administration
3.01      A statutory body "The Commissioners of the Port of Rangoon" was
constituted as a Port Authority by an Act of 1879; the Rangoon Port Act
1905, the provisions of which (as amended in 1954) are still in force,
contained provisions for the Commissioners' borrowing powers but its other



- 6 -
functions remained unchanged. The Amendment Act of 1954 revised the mem-
bership of the Board of Commissioners, prescribed fresh terms and condi-
tions for floating of loans and presentation of accounts and changed its
name to the Board of Management for the Port of Rangoon.
3.02      The Board ceased to function on the re-designation of the port
authority as the Burma Ports Corporation (Notification No. 1 dated March 16,
1972). In August 1973, the Chairman of the former Board of Management for
the Port of Rangoon was redesignated as Managing Director of the Burma Ports
Corporation. The managing Director is the Chief Executive but is directly
responsible to the Minister of Transport and Communications. The revival
of a Board to manage the corporation's affairs is now being considered by
Government. It is understood the Board will consist of nine members, two-
thirds being appointed by the Minister of Tranport and the remainder from
among the BPC employees. The re-establishment of a Board is not expected to
bring about any significant changes in the management and operations of the
corporation.
3.03      In 1962 the outports of Burma came under the control of BPC and
the 1905 Act was amended to enable BPC to administer the outports of Akyab,
Kyaukpyu, Bassein, Moulmein, Tavoy and Mergui. To these were added in
1965 the port of Kawthaung and in 1968 Sandoway.
3.04      The BPC undertakes both "Inboard" and "Outboard" functions of the
port, having taken over in 1969 the provision and control of stevedoring pre-
viously carried on by another authority.
3.05      All acts and proceedings of BPC are subject to the approval of the
Government. In practice the BPC has a high level of autonomy in conducting
its affairs but its annual budgets on revenue and on capital accounts must
be approved by the Government. Financial relationships between the Govern-
ment and State Enterprises, including BPC, are presently being changed. The
new arrangements are discussed in Chapter VI.
3.06      The BPC organization consists of seven departments, each headed
by a Principal Officer, of which the Traffic Department is responsible for
operational functions--see Chart (No. 1). The outports are managed by BPC
but are administered by Port Officers; they are of little significance in the
context of this report.
3.07      The Managing.Director as the Chief Executive Officer is appointed
by the Government for an unspecified period and is responsible for dealing
with all matters of policy affecting the Port; he also directs and coordi-
nates the working of individual departments and is assisted by the General
Manager in matters relating to short and long term planning, personnel and
financial policies.
3.08      In the near future BPC will formally take over the management of
the shipping agencies and the coal import and sales business of Trade Corpora-
tion No. 17. This decision has been made to put these businesses under more
competent management.



-7-
B.   Staff and Labor
3.09      The total number of regular staff employed by BPC at May 1, 1976
was 8,831 including 139 officers. The sanctioned establishment strength is
11,038 plus casual laborers 5,443; BPC has freedom to increase staff within
the sanctioned establishment but the labor force presently employed is
already about 40% greater than that required for current traffic volume.
There are no pay incentive schemes but stevedore gangs are paid an incentive
bonus for moving more than standard tonnages per day. There is one Staff
Association which can discuss working conditions, promotion and (theoretically)
pay, but in fact there has been no general increase in pay scales since the
end of World War II. A cost of living allowance as at the end of the war was
consolidated with basic pay from 1972/73 thereby giving increased pension
benefits. Another cost of living allowance was granted to lower paid workers
from June 1976 which ranged from Kyats 40 down to Kyats 15 per month. Basic
pay rates are very low, department chiefs get a maximum of Kyats 1300 per
month (US$191.00 equivalent) while the rate for the lowest paid worker is
Kyats 100 per month (US$15.00 equivalent). In spite of these conditions the
BPC's management and senior officials are competent and well qualified; the
level of general efficiency is higher than is found in other state enterprises
in Burma. The GOB and BPC's management are aware of the overstaffing problems
and BPC has informed the Association that it intends to restrict the hiring of
new staff and estimates that the labor force will be reduced by about 3% per
annum as a result of natural wastage, On this basis, BPC estimates that their
excess labor force in 1982 would be reduced to not more than about 15% of the
strength needed to deal with the anticipated traffic volume.
C.   Port Facilities
General
3.10      Rangoon is situated at the southern extremity of the Pegu Yoma
Hills. The port developed where the high ground meets deep water at the
northern end of the Rangoon River estuary, the easternmost of the numerous
effluents of the Irrawaddy delta area.
3.11      The Rangoon River estuary connects the port to the Gulf of Mar-
taban-- see Map No. 10044R1. It is fed by three rivers with a common con-
fluence in the vicinity of the city: the Rangoon (or Hlaing) River which
has a number of connections with the Irrawaddy River, the Pegu River and
the smaller Pazundaung Creek.
3.12      The present estuary has a length of about 20 sea miles between the
city of Rangoon and its mouth near Elephant Point. At the Inner Bar, off
Monkey Point, a minimum depth of about 12 ft. is maintained by dredging.
The Outer Bar between the Spit Sands and the Eastern Grove Flats is crossed
by two natural channels of which the East Channel is the deeper and has been
the present seaway into the estuary since 1963, giving a minimum depth of
about 12 ft. below Datum (lowest low water). These depths presently limit
the access of ships of 10,000 dwt or more to the port of Rangoon. The aver-
age tidal range is about 16 feet.



-8-
3.13      The general layout of Rangoon port and River is shown in plan BP/I.
The thirteen existing shore berths for ocean going ships are in two groups -
the upstream group, Hteedan coal wharf, Hteedan and Ahlone rice wharves and
the downstream group, Sule Pagoda and Brooking Street wharves. There are
also a number of stream berths in the form of buoyed moorings, seven in the
inner harbor and three at Ahlone, where ships can be loaded and unloaded by
lighters. Three fixed moorings are available for tankers near the petroleum
refinery at Syriam.
3.14      Vessels waiting for suitable tides to enter the harbor may be
anchored either at the three swinging moorings outside the harbor limit at
Hastings or at the Explosives Anchorage depending on the vessels' draft.
The thirteen berths for ocean-going ships comprise:
Minimum Stated
Berth            Length in Ft.      Water Depth (ft.)          Main Use
(Hteedan Coal Berth       480                   38             Coal & Coke Imports
(Hteedan Rice Berth       456                   28             Rice Imports
(Ahlone Wharf             440                   31             Rice Imports
(Sule Pagoda 1            450                   25             Rice Imports
(Sule Pagoda 2            450                   24             Rice Imports
(Sule Pagoda 3            450                   16             Coastal Shipping
(Sule Pagoda 4            450                   18             General Cargo
(Sule Pagoda 5            525                   21             General Cargo
(Sule Pagoda 6            525                   26             General Cargo
(Sule Pagoda 7            520                   27             General Cargo
Port Health Station        500                  27             Passenger Terminal
(Brooking Street 1        450                   22             Timber
(Brooking Street 2        450                   28             Timber
The upstream wharves at Hteedan and Ahlone take advantage of the proximity
of the 30-feet contour to the shoreline. None of the three berths normally
requires any maintenance dredging.
3.15      The siting of the downstream berths - Sule Pagoda and Brooking
Street Wharves - was just inshore of where the 30-feet contour is stable.
All the wharf structures are designed for the berths to be dredged to 30
feet below Datum. At present the 30-feet contour is between 40 and 70 feet
from the wharf face at Sule Pagoda Berths 1, 2, 6 and 7 and Brooking Street
Berths 1 and 2 and over 100 feet at Sule Pagoda Berths 3, 4, 5 and 8.
3.16      Storage facilities at the port berths comprise both open storage
and covered accommodation in transit sheds. BPC also owns 66 landing areas
and facilities along the river frontage on the north side of the harbor.
These comprise mainly floating steel pontoons moored off the foreshore and



-9-
connected to it by a foot bridge. The landing facilities are served by a
waterfront road which gives access to godowns also owned by BPC or to Strand
Road immediately beyond. These godowns, 229 in number, are leased mainly
to the State-owned Trade Corporations.
3.17      The port owns about 355 basic units of cargo handling equipment such
as portal type quay cranes, mobile cranes, tractors, trailers, forklift trucks
and one stationary heavy-lift crane (Annex 3).  Over the past seven years
the number of available units of mechanical handling equipment has declined
considerably as compared with 1968-69.  This decline has been due mainly to a
lack of foreign exchange with which to finance the purchase of essential spare
parts.  For example, numerous fork lift trucks have been out of use for more
than two years awaiting spare parts, while no spare parts have been bought for
any of the electric portal cranes for the past eight years. As a result,
movement of cargo to and from ships is slow. Provision is included in the
proposed Credit for spare parts for existing equipment and the replacement of
worn-out items.
3.18      The floating pontoons used as landing facilities are between 3 and
29 years old. Of the 49 pontoon berths in Rangoon only 16% are classed as in
"good" condition, 27% as "fair" and 57% as "bad". The associated connecting
bridges are similarly in run-down condition rated "good" 28%, "fair" 7% and
"bad" 65%. The BPC condition assessments are realistic, and details are
listed in Annex 4. Replacement of worn-out pontoons handling export cargo
has been provided for in the proposed Credit.
3.19      The BPC has 6 slipways in its workshops area at Botataung, the
largest being capable of slipping vessels up to about 350 tons with 7 ft.
draft. There are also three slipways at Angyi on the south side of the
harbor and a graving dock in Pazundaung Creek which can take vessels up to
220 ft. long with 11.5 ft. draft (which will include all BPC-owned vessels).
The facilities are used mainly by BPC vessels although the dock is used
occasionally by Navy vessels since it is the only dry dock in the country.
Repair and new construction work is hampered by the shortage of basic mate-
rials, spare parts for vessels, and by lack of modern workshop equipment.
An allocation is included in the proposed Credit to procure necessary new
workshops equipment.
D.   Dredging
3.20      BPC carries out maintenance dredging of the navigational channel
and alongside the berths with its own dredgers. The suction dredger "Thaung
Naing Yay" (TNY) has generally been utilised on dredging the Inner Bar at
Monkey Point whilst the bucket dredger "Kyant Khaing Yay" (KKY) dredged the
port shipping berths. Two pontoon grab dredgers "Mintoon 5" and "Mintoon 6"
are utilised on general dredging and clearing at berths, pontoons and slip-
ways. Utilisation of the dredger TNY was only 38% of its possible avail-
ability, the remainder of the time being under repair and maintenance. The
two grab dredgers averaged only 54% utilisation, and the bucket dredger is
unserviceable owing to damage sustained in January 1975 (for which no foreign
exchange has been available to effect the necessary repairs).



- 10 -
3.21      Hydrographic survey and buoying of the navigation channels between
the sea and the port of Rangoon is also carried out by BPC vessels, but avail-
ability of these and other service vessels has been less than required because
of lack of basic repair materials and spare parts (as referred to in para.
3.19). Provision has been made in the proposed Credit for procurement of
such materials and spare parts for primary service vessels in the BPC flo-
tilla. Particulars of BPC dredgers and other major service vessels are given
in Annex 5.
E.   Operations
3.22      Port operations are under the control of the Chief Traffic Manager
who is responsible for the berthing of ships arranged at the daily berthing
meeting, and for the allocation of labor and mechanical equipment.
3.23      The numbers of operating personnel employed on permanent engagement
total about 3,400 of which 60% are dockers and stevedores, 20% are plant op-
erators and 20% quay operating personnel. Casual labor, 2,000 men approxi-
mately, is employed on a daily basis and is used principally for the delivery
of cargoes from shed and to supplement the quay gangs as and when required.
3.24      Stevedoring is provided in two 8-hour shifts to be worked each day
followed by four hours overtime. The day shift commences at 8 a.m. and fin-
ishes at 8 p.m. while the night shift takes over at 8 p.m. and works on
until 8 a.m. the following morning.
3.25      General cargo is mostly handled and stored manually with the aid
of ships' gear and the occassional use of quay cranes, fork lift trucks,
tractors and trailers. Pallets are used for some small amounts of unitised
cargoes. The electric portal quay cranes continue to be used by coastal
ships and charter vessels where on occasion the ships' gear is ineffective
at low tide.
3.26      Maintenance responsibilities are divided up within the Port Organ-
ization between the departments of the Chief Civil engineer, Chief Mechanical
Engineer, Chief Traffic Manager and the Master Attendant. The two mainte-
nance activities which directly affect the cargo throughput capacity of the
port are the repair of mechanical handling equipment and the repair of the
dredgers and associated vessels. A substantial proportion of the mobile
cranes, tractors and forklift trucks are out of action due to lack of
spares or are worn out, as insufficient foreign exchange has been allo-
cated to BPC to buy spare parts or replacement units. Action is required
to increase present maintenance efficiency by improving procedures and by
further training of personnel (para 4.09 below). Provision for technical
assistance to effect this has been made in the proposed Credit.



- 11 -
IV. INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.   Investment Program
4.01      The investment program of BPC, covering the last two years of the
Second 4-Year Plan (1976-77 and 1977/78) and the whole of the Third 4-year
Plan, extending to 1981/82, is summarized in Table 4. The table has been
prepared, on the basis of a program prepared by BPC, after making essential
adjustments to reflect the cost of a newly introduced commodities and serv-
ices tax. Proposed spending in the Third Plan amounts to a total of Kyats
76.7 million, including foreign exchange of Kyats 40.5 million (US$6.0 mil-
lion equivalent). The program calls for an expenditure of about US$12.0 mil-
lion in foreign exchange, of which US$10.0 million would be provided by the
proposed credit. The investment program has been satisfactorily prepared
with the primary objective of responding to BPC's needs for rehabilitation
of existing equipment and facilities.
B.   The Project and the Proposed Credit
4.02      The project, covering the last year of the BPC Second 4-Year Plan
(1977-78), and the first two years of the Third 4-Year Plan (1978-80), is
designed to prevent Rangoon port becoming a serious bottleneck for the economy
by undertaking long overdue replacements and rehabilitation works including
the stabilization and deepening of the access channel between the sea and the
port of Rangoon and improvements to cargo handling and other facilities. There
will be no expansion of port infrastructure; the existing berthing facilities
would be able to accommodate the forecast increase in exports and imports with
the improved cargo handling facilities to be provided under the project.
4.03      The total cost of the project is estimated at Kyats 110.0 million
(US$16 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of about US$10.0
million which would be covered by the proposed Credit. The proposed Credit
of US$10.0 muillion would amount to 62% of the project cost or about 76% of
total cost net of taxes. A breakdown of the estimated project cost and items
to be financed by the proposed Credit is given in the following table (see
Annex 6 for detailed project description and Table 5 for further details of
items to be financed by the proposed Credit):



- 12 -
C.   Project Cost Estimates
US$ million             % of
Kyats million         equivalent           Project Ex-
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total    penditure
1. Vessel repairs,
Navigation Aids,
Technical
Assistance /a            3.36  17.75  21.11   0.49   2.61   3.10         19.2
2. Cargo Handling
Equipment and
Spares                  4.66  26.35  31.01   0.69   3.88   4.57          28.2
3. Pontoons, Bridges       10.20  10.81  21.01   1.50   1.59   3.09         19.1
4. Training                   -    1.73   1.73       -    0.25   0.25         1.6
18.22  56.64  74.86   2.68   8.33  11.01         68.1
Contingencies:
Physical 15% /b    0.95   3.65   4.60   0.14   0.54   0.68            4.2
Price 8%            2.72   7.68  10.40   0.40   1.13   1.53           9.5
21.89  67.97  89.86   3.22  10.00  13.22         81.8
Commodities and
Services Tax            20.00    -    20.00   2.94    -        2.94       18.2
41.89  67.97 109.86   6.16  10.00  16.16        100.0
Foreign Exchange component - % of total                     62%
/a   Including capital dredging.
/b   Physical contingencies on vessel and equipment repairs and replacements -
See Table 5.
Rate of Exchange US$1.00 = Kyats 6.8
4.04      The project costs are based upon the latest available prices updated
to end 1976. The rehabilitation costs of the dredgers have been based upon a
survey afloat carried out by the consultants who were employed on the UNDP-
financed study and on their subsequent recommendations. The estimated cost
assumes that all equipment and materials would be imported. Price contingen-
cies have been provided at 8% per annum for each of the years 1977/78 to 1979/
80 and physical contingencies have been provided where appropriate at 15% of
the relevant basic costs. The total contingencies, so calculated, are equiv-
alent to 20% of the basic cost estimates. Local costs include import duties,
and commodities and services tax. A time-phased implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 7.



- 13 -
D.   Project Execution
4.05      BPC will be responsible for the execution of the project.  One im-
portant organizational factor directly related to the subsequent effective-
ness of the Project is the need for BPC to assign an effective Dredging
Manager to direct all dredging activities and dredger maintenance, in close
association with the Master-Attendant, since the continuing availability
and efficient operation of the suction dredger TNY could be critical to the
maintenance of a 15 ft. minimum depth access channel in the Rangoon river.
BPC intends to assign a Burmese Dredging Manager in January 1977 after con-
sultation with the Association. Undertakings have been obtained from BPC to
rehabilitate the dredger TNY by December 31, 1977 and to deepen the port
access channel to a minimum depth of 15 ft. below datum by December 31, 1978
and to maintain it to that depth thereafter.
E.   Consulting Services/Training
4.06      In view of the Association's past experience in Burma especially
under the IWTC Credit (413-BA) regarding delays in international procurement,
and because of BPC's own inexperience with the Association's procurement pro-
cedures, the assistance of an international purchasing agency to obtain bids
and review their suitability has been discussed. BPC has favored such
an arrangement and is discussing it with the Government.
4.07      Detailed specifications and documentation for rehabilitation of
the suction dredger TNY will need to be prepared quickly and once the works
contract has been awarded after selective international competitive bidding
from prequalified shipyards, supervision of the work in a foreign shipyard
will be necessary. Provision has therefore been made for the employment of
an experienced consultant by not later than June 30, 1977 to undertake such
work.
4.08      BPC has agreed that a Dredging Expert, acceptable to the Associa-
tion, will be appointed to train dredger crews and improve the working effi-
ciency of the rehabilitated dredger TNY and permit its utilisation on a double
shift basis as necessary.
4.09      It has been agreed that BPC will take steps, acceptable to the
Association, to improve workshop maintenance procedures and training of crafts-
men engaged on the maintenance of equipment. In particular BPC has undertaken
to prepare and institute properly drawnup maintenance schedules for all cargo
handling and other equipment not later than March 31, 1978, and to take all
necessary steps, including the appointment of specialist consultants, to pro-
vide additional training for personnel engaged in the maintenance of such
equipment.
4.10      The project includes also a provision for training in various
planning techniques of suitable personnel attached to the planning unit
established within BPC (para. 2.14). The training is likely to include cor-
porate planning, traffic forecasting, costing and tariff setting and economic
evaluation of projects.



- 14 -
F.   Procurement and Disbursement
4.11      Items to be purchased by BPC and financed by the Association will
be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines of the Association, except for spare parts for existing equipment
and for replacement engines where it is not feasible to fit a replacement
unit of a type other than that already in use. The estimated cost of these
items, not subject to competitive bidding is US$0.75 million.
4.12    - The contract for the rehabilitation of the suction dredger TNY (and
possibly for repair of the dredger KKY) will be awarded on a basis of selec-
tive competitive bidding from prequalified shipyards. Although BPC has its
own drydock which could accept these vessels for repair, materials which are
expected to be found necessary for the repair work after the vessel is dry-
docked are not readily available and this situation makes the use of a com-
mercial repair drydock a necessity if the dredger is to be rehabilitated with-
in a reasonable period of time. Repairs to other vessels and existing cargo
handling equipment will be carried out by BPC after procurement of the neces-
sary materials and spares. The minor civil engineering works involved would
be carried out by BPC.
4.13      Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of vessel rehabilitation and/or repairs, equipment,
materials, consultant services and training.
4.14      The estimated quarterly rate of disbursement (Annex 8) is based
on the assumption that the proposed Credit would become effective by
March 31, 1977.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   The Project and the Third Plan
5.01      The project described in Chapter IV, is designed to prevent Rangoon
port becoming a serious bottleneck for the economy by undertaking long overdue
rehabilitation and replacement works, which are necessary even if the traffic
volume should remain stagnant. Associated with this, the project will contri-
bute to the achievement of the objectives set for Burma's Third 4-year Develop-
ment Plan 1977/78 - 1981/82, the two most important being expansion of exports
and reduction of the cost of imports. The project will support these objec-
tives directly through the following two cost reducing impacts:
(i) it will allow larger ships to be used after the deepening
of the Rangoon port sea access channel as part of the project;
(ii)  it will make it possible to improve ship turnaround times
in Rangoon port by reducing ship waiting times in channel
and in particular as a result of improved cargo handling
in port. With these improvements, the existing berthing



- 1 5 -
capacity would be sufficient to accommodate the expected
increase in exports and imports without need for expansion
or use of lighterage operations (see Table 6).
5.02      Since a further gradual deterioration of the sea access channel and
port facilities is likely to increasingly form a bottleneck for Burma's
foreign trade, it has been assumed that exports and imports through Rangoon
port would in the "without project" case remain stagnant. In the economic
evaluation the benefits to the forecast increase in port traffic have been
calculated on the same basis as for the existing traffic, i.e. in the form of
cost reduction (or avoided cost increases) per ton handled and shipped through
the port. In addition to evaluation of the economic rate of return "with" and
"without" the project, an evaluation has been undertaken on an incremental
basis by calculating the economic rate of return for (i) the investment
required to maintain the present situation (channel depth, shipping pattern
and cargo handling unchanged) and (ii) the incremental investment required to
undertake the project as proposed (para. 5.21 and Annex 10, para. 32).
5.03      The project has mainly been evaluated in terms of exports and im-
ports passing through Rangoon port. There is, however, a substantial volume
of coastal and inland water traffic utilizing the Rangoon port. This volume
has averaged about 900,000 tons annually during recent years. About one-
third, or 300,000 tons of this traffic is related to Burma's foreign trade
consisting mainly of rice and timber for exports, while the remaining two-
thirds represent local traffic to meet Rangoon's requirements of foodstuffs,
construction materials, etc. The project includes components (pontoons
for jetties, etc.) to improve the handling of the foreign trade related coastal
and inland water traffic, but in the economic evaluation no specific benefits
have been estimated for this traffic in order to avoid double counting, be-
cause the traffic volumes have already been included in the related exports
and imports. However, direct reloading to oceangoing vessels is not possible
for a substantial part of the incoming export related inland water traffic
because of tidal and seasonal factors. The project benefits therefore, may
be conservatively assessed to the extent the project investment may result in
reduced costs for necessary double handling (unloading/warehousing or trucking/
reloading) of foreign trade related coastal and inland water traffic.
B.   Traffic Forecast
5.04      The estimated development of exports and imports through Rangoon
port during the Third Plan Period 1976/77-1981/82 is presented in Table 6,
with projections for years 1985/86 and 1991/92. The forecast has been pre-
pared by taking into account the overall assessment of the Burmese economy
contained in the latest Bank Economic Report 1/ and the likely impact of on-
going and planned multi- and bilateral aid operations. The forecast assumes
1/   Development in Burma:  Issues and Prospects, Vols. I and II, World
Bank Report No. 1024-BA, March 2, 1976.



- 16 -
that the project investment will be undertaken. "Without the project," exports
and imports through Rangoon port are assumed to remain on their present level.
Further details on the forecast are presented in Annex 9, with a few summariz-
ing remarks in the following paragraphs.
5.05      Rice and timber account at present for about 75% of the total ex-
ports. In the past this share was even higher but has been declining due to
reduced rice exports. For instance, in 1965 rice alone accounted for about
70% of the total export volume (Table 1). As a result of the increased incen-
tives introduced by the Government recently, this trend is assumed to be re-
versed and in volume terms, rice exports are expected to increase by a rela-
tively modest 3.5% per annum, reaching about 615,000 tons at the end of the
Third Plan in 1981/82. Because of the low levels of exports achieved in the
past few years the forecast volume for 1981/82 would still be less than real-
ized in 1971/72 (748,000 tons; Table 6).
5.06      Export of timber is expected to increase at a higher rate of 8.5%
per annum, in light of Burma's vast forest resources, increasing international
demand for teak and other tropical hardwoods, and because of the expected
impact of ongoing projects including the UNDP-financed forestry technical
assistance project and the Bank-financed forestry project which is expected
to result in an additional 150,000 tons of exportable hardwoods by late 1970's.
Because of the low levels of timber exports in recent years, the forecast
volume, 275,000 tons by 1981/82, would still fall short of the exports
achieved as recently as 1972/73 (289,000 tons; Table 6). The overall growth
rate for exports, excluding the oil sector, is expected to be about 7% per
annum. With this growth rate, the exports in 1971/72, 1,256,000 tons, and
in 1981/82, 1,260,000 tons, would be almost identical (Table 6).
5.07      On the import side, general cargo represents about 75% of total
imports, consisting mainly of machinery, spareparts, chemicals, steel and
other imports for domestic production. Consumer goods represent only a
minor part of the total. General cargo imports have been closely related
to the development of export earnings which appear to have been far less
than needed even for the most essential imports of spareparts and replace-
ments. This situation is likely to continue and the growth rate for general
cargo imports has been estimated by taking into account the likely development
of exports. In volume terms the growth rate for general cargo imports has
been estimated at 4.6% p.a. (see Table 6).
Oil Sector
5.08      In addition to agriculture and forestry, oil represents one of
Burma's most important economic sectors. Although the proven oil reserves
are not large on international standards, they are sufficient to meet Burma's
own needs in the foreseeable future. Any large scale export of crude oil
is unlikely, unless the ongoing exploration programs result in significant
finds. Today Burma's production of crude, its refining capacity and its
domestic consumption are more or less in balance at 1.2 million tons annu-
ally. Imports have taken place in the recent past (Table 6), because of
problems experienced in transporting the crude from the production areas to



- 17 -
the refineries. These problems are now being solved by construction of a
pipeline and by more efficient barge transport. In addition, imported crude
of about 30,000 tons is required for a lube oil plant, for which the domestic
crude is not suitable. The total POL imports have been assumed to be about
150,000 tons annually 1975/76 - 1981/82, to cater for the lube oil plant,
possible temporary domestic supply difficulties and increased domestic
demand for refined products until the planned expansion of refining capacity
is realized (by 1982/83).
5.09    - Exports of POL products have been marginal in the past and consist
of derivatives - paraffin wax, naphtha, petroleum coke - not consumed in Burma.
The export of these derivatives is expected to continue on the present level,
about 50,000 tons, until the refinery expansion of 1.0 million tons annually
is completed by 1982/83. According to the Myanma Oil Corporation (MOC), the
volume of derivatives available for exports will then increase to about 150,000
tons.
C.   Benefits
5.10      The project benefits, most of which are likely to be passed on to
the Burmese economy, have been calculated in the form of:
(i)  reduced ship waiting times for arriving and departing ocean
going vessels as a result of the channel deepening;
(ii)  reduced shipping costs per ton of exports and imports
resulting from the use of larger ships made possible by
the deeper channel;
(iii)  reduced cargo handling costs in Rangoon port as a result
of improved cargo handling equipment.
Details on calculation of project benefits are provided in Annex 10, and the
results are summarized in the following paragraphs.
5.11      Ship waiting times in Rangoon sea access channel are caused by
channel depth, seasonal and tidal variations in water levels, and draft of
vessels. With the present channel depth .f 12 ft. below Datum, there are
about 100 days a year when 10,000 dwt vesstls with a draft of 25 ft. will
experience delays due to draft restrictions (Table 7). Without the project,
the channel would deteriorate further by about 2 ft. In that situation, the
average delay for a 10,000 dwt vessel would be about two thirds of a day,
while larger and more economic 15,000 dwt vessels would not be able to enter
at all. (Annex 10).
5.12      With the project, the waiting times for 10,000 dwt vessels would
be reduced to zero, while the 15,000 dwt vessels could enter on most days
of the year (and particularly during the main trading season) without any
delays. The savings in costs resulting from reduced ship waiting times would
reach a maximum of US$0.6 million in 1981/82, when most of the traffic would
be still carried by 10,000 dwt vessels. These savings would be slightly



- 18 -
reduced in the subsequent years (Table 8) with an increasing share of traffic
carried by 15,000 dwt vessels. This minor reduction in savings is however
more than compensated by other cost reductions obtainable by using the larger
vessels. On average the saving in ship waiting time costs will amount to
about US cents 15 to 20 per ton of exports and imports.
5.13      Savings in shipping costs would be obtained as a result of the lower
per ton shipping cost obtained by using larger, 15,000 dwt vessels for part of
the trade and as a result of reduced ship turnaround times caused by improved
cargo handling in Rangoon port. The India/South Asia trade would continue to
use the 10,000 dwt vessels (except POL traffic) while the larger vessels would
gradually be introduced on the Burma - Northern Europe and Burma - Japan/Far
East routes. In 1981/82, about 2/3 of the foreign trade would still be
carried by the 10,000 dwt ships (Annex 10, para. 9). By 1986/87, with full
development, the 15,000 dwt vessels would be carrying about 60% of Burma's
foreign trade.
5.14      The costs of shipping with and without the project have been detailed
in Tables 9 and 10. On average, the cost reductions would amount to US$2.7 per
ton in 1981/82, when only 1/3 of traffic is carried by 15,000 dwt vessels,
increasing to US$3.1 per ton in 1986/87. Somewhat less than half of these
cost reductions would be caused by improved cargo handling in Rangoon port.
5.15      As a whole, the project is estimated to result in a reduction of
9.4% in shipping costs in 1986/87, when shipping and port operations have
been fully adjusted to the improvements introduced by the project (Annex 10,
para. 22). The savings in shipping costs are summarized in Table 8.
5.16      At present, there is a substantial shortage of operational cargo
handling equipment in Rangoon port with resulting reductions in loading and
unloading rates of exports and imports. Compared with the "without project"
case these have conservatively been assumed to improve by 15% to 20% as a
result of the cargo handling equipment, spares and workshop machinery in-
cluded in the project (Annex 10, para. 24 and 25). With a present cost of
cargo handling of about US$4 per ton this implies a saving of US$0.75 per
ton. (US$4.50 per ton without project and US$3.75 with project). Annual
savings in cargo handling costs are presented in Table 8.
5.17      Without the project the total costs of waiting in channel, shipping
and cargo handling costs would in 1986/87 amount to some US$112.3 million,
or about US$42.4 per ton. With the project, these costs would be reduced to
US$101.7 million, representing a saving of US$ 10.6 million, or by US$4 per
ton. This saving would, however, be slightly reduced by the amount required
for channel maintenance. This would, with periodic overhaul of dredger amount
to about US$0.8 million a year (Table 8) and reduce net project benefits to
about US$3.7 per ton. This represents a reduction of 8.5% in total costs
without the project.



- 1.9-
D.   Economic Return
5.18      On the basis of costs and benefits summarized in Table 8, the eco-
nomic rate of return on project investment has been calculated at 37%. As
detailed in Annex 10, this return has been based on conservative assumptions
on the impact of the project on the various cost reducing components. Shadow
pricing foreign exchange would lead to a slightly higher rate of return.
5.19      Any realistically foreseeable variations in the main cost and
benefit components would not change the economic merits of the project.
An assumed 20% increase in project costs (whiTh already includes contingen-
cies) would, with a similar 20% reduction in henefits, result in an economic
rate of return of 25'i, which is still high.
5.20      Most of the  project benefits will be passed on to the Burmese
economy since about 90O' of Burma's foreign trade is carried by the state-
owned Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation (BFSSC), or by vessels chartered
by it and all of the foreign trade-related activities are in Burmese owner-
ship. The economic rate of return would still exceed 15%, even if project
benefits were reduced by one half. For example, if there were no traffic
growth and only half of the estimated savings accrued to the Burmese economy,
the economic rate of return would still be about 17%.
5.21      An additional evaluatLon of the economic rate of return has been
undertaken on an incremental basis by dividing the project investment into
(i) the investment required to maintain the conditions in the port as they
are at present ("status quo" case; i.e. channel depth unchanged at 12 ft.
below Datum; no increase in ship sizes above 10,000 dwt. and no improvement
in cargo handling equipment); and (ii) the incremental investment required
(over and above the "status quo" case) to undertake the project as proposed.
As outlined in Annex 12 (para. 31), the "status quo" case will require an
investment of about US$9.0 million equivalent (excluding import and other
taxes). This will result in an economic rate of return of about 12%, the
benefits being avoidance of a lengthening of ship waiting times (which would
result from a further deterioration of the channel to 10 ft. below Datum) and
avoidance of an increase in cargo handling costs by about 10%. On the other
hand, the return on an incremental investment of about US$4.0 million would
be about 60%, which has been calculated conservatively by assuming that only
half of the estimated reductions in shipping costs would be passed on to the
Burmese economy.
VI. FINANCIAL. EVALUATION
A.   Accounts, Audit and Control by Government
6.0L      Up to March 31, 1976, the finances of BPC were strictly controlled
bv the Government.  Annual budgets on revenue account and on capital account
had to be approved by Government and all cash was paid in to the Union Gov-
ernment Consolidated Fund (UGCF), the Corporation had no power to retain its



- 20 -
earnings for future development. Commencing with the year 1976/77, BPC, in
common with other state enterprises, will be given a greater degree of finan-
cial autonomy as provided for in commercial guidelines prepared for state
economic enterprises. BPC will be required to pay to the Government a per-
centage (not yet fixed) of its annual surpluses, as a contribution to Govern-
ment revenues. The cash needs of BPC will be met from retained cash surpluses
which according to the new guidelines are to provide working capital and to
create funds such as Depreciation and Replacement and Welfare. Appropriations
from the funds are to be with the approval of the "Administrative Ministry".
The new arrangements are considered satisfactory and while complete details of
the new guidelines have not yet been finally settled, BPC has undertaken to
furnish them to the Association as soon as they are available.
6.02      Audit of BPC accounts is done by the Central Accounts Office (CAO)
which has very wide powers although the audit process is very slow. The
audit of BPC is carried out by an Assistant Director and a staff of twenty;
the audit teams have wide powers and they check in great detail. The standard
of auditing is considered acceptable.
6.03      The Bank has suggested to the Director, CAO, means by which his
department could improve training methods and gain access to literature on
modern accounting and auditing procedures.
6.04      Audited accounts for FYs 1975 and 1976 with reports and comments
of the auditors have been received by the Association and they are satis-
factory. It has been agreed that future audited accounts and reports will
be presented to the Association within four months of the end of the fiscal
year.
B.   Tariffs
6.05      Tariffs are prescribed by a new structure of rates introduced from
April 1, 1974. The average direct cargo charges amounted to Kyats 8.91 per
ton in 1975/76 but the total operational income (charges on cargo plus dues on
vessels) was Kyats 18.3 per ton, this figure having increased steadily from
Kyats 10.64 in 1962/63. Part of this increase is due to the taking over by
BPC of stevedoring functions in 1969. Although average revenue per ton has
increased substantially, the quantum of operating revenue has remained almost
constant because the tonnage handled in 1975/76 was only just over one half
the tonnage handled in 1962/63. During the same period demurrage income has
increased from Kyats 4.7 million in 1962/63 to Kyats 13.9 million in 1975/76.
6.06      While BPC's tariffs are related to the cost of providing individual
services, nevertheless, the corporation's financial viability is greatly de-
pendent on demurrage income. In the financial projections used in this report
it has been assumed that demurrage income will steadily fall away to reach a
"normal" level in 1981/82 and it has been assumed that certain tariff in-
creases will be introduced between 1978/79 and 1981/82 (para 6.10).



- 21 -
C.   Past Earnings and Present Financial Situation
6.07      Table 11 shows BPC's revenue and expenditure accounts from 1971/72
to 1975/76. Because of a change in fiscal year, accounts for 1973/74 refer
only to a six month period. In all other years, BPC has earned a net surplus
and achieved a satisfactory operating ratio. During this period both costs
and revenues have remained relatively stable but traffic handled has dropped
from 2.3 million tons in 1971/72 to 1.65 million in 1975/76. While total
operating costs have increased during this period by only 12% the cost per ton
handled has risen from Kyats 13.6 to 21.3, an increase of 57%. Likewise
revenues per ton handled have increased by 23%. The conclusion one draws is
that as traffic volume falls, that which remains has to pay more and BPC has
been able to recover its costs. In one sense this can be claimed to be the
result of successful financial management. However, the maintenance of satis-
factory financial results by BPC is to a large extent attributable to the
subtantial demurrage revenue.
6.08      The balance sheet of BPC at March 31, 1976 is shown in Table 12
with corresponding figures for the previous year. The figures were supplied
by BPC but the presentation has been changed to show the "Proprietary Interest"
of the Government in one figure. In BPC's own balance sheet several accounts
with Government are shown including an account called "working capital" which
amounted to Kyats 95 million in 1976. This represented the cumulative net
total of cash paid into the UGCF over many years. Since in no sense can
this be regarded as available to BPC it has been treated as a repayment of
capital. BPC's accounts are well maintained.
D.   Financial Forecasts
6.09      Forecast revenue and expenditure accounts of BPC for the years
1976/77 to 1981/82 are shown in Table 13. The figures have been compiled by
IDA staff on the basis of projections prepared by BPC. Financial forecasts
exclude results from coal trading with which BPC has recently been entrusted
by the Government and for which separate accounts will be maintained; it has
been agreed that the rates to be charged for coal supplies will be sufficient
to enable BPC to recover at least all the related costs of importation,
storage, handling and distribution. Operating revenue is based on BPC's bud-
get figure for 1976/77, which is considered very conservative, and annual
increases of 3% thereafter are in line with the forecast traffic growth; de-
murrage charges are expected to steadily decline and an allowance for labor
cost increase by 3% p.a. has been made. Because of the size of BPC's invest-
ment program, which in a relatively short time is designed to overtake a low
level of spending in the past decade, depreciation charges will increase sub-
stantially and provision has been made for BPC to pay interest at 9% p.a.
to the Government on the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
6.10      After establishing the increased costs outlined above a calculation
was made of the additional revenue BPC would need through raising tariffs, to
maintain its financially viable situation and to satisfy the new standards
laid down by Government which briefly mean that BPC must be self-supporting
both on revenue and on capital account. The increased tariffs, applicable to



- 22 -
total revenue, are estimated at 10% in each of the years 1977/78 and 1978/79
and a further 5% in each of the years 1979/80 and 1980/81. Such increases
are considered maxima; it is more likely that two increases of 10% applied to
operating revenue and demurrage would be required during the three years
1979/80-1981/82. The forecasts may be summarized as follows:
FYs                1977       1978      1979      1980     1981       1982
Kyats (millions)
Total Revenue           58.9       64.9      71.5      75.7      80.1      80.9
Operating Expenses      47.5       52.2      58.7      63.3      66.8      68.9
Operating Surplus        11.4      12.7      12.8      12.4      13.3       12.0
Loan Interest             -          1.2      4.3       5.8       5.9        5.4
Net Surplus              11.4      11.5       8.5       6.6       7.4        6.6
Operating Ratio %        80.6      80.4      82.1      83.6      83.3       85.2
Return on net fixed       9.1       8.7       6.7       6.2       7.1        7.0
assets in use %
6.11      The above forecasts are based on the assumed completion of the
investment program shown in Table 4.
6.12      It has been agreed that earnings from port operations (i.e. exclud-
ing profits from coal trading and other activities not related to port opera-
tions) from 1977/78 onwards should be not less than 6% on average net fixed
assets in use. This should be adequate to provide BPC with sufficient funds
to meet its debt service payments and to provide for foreseeable future capital
needs. It has also been agreed that the proceeds of the Credit will be onlent
by the Government to BPC in a subsidiary loan agreement, at 9% p.a. interest
with repayments in equal half yearly instalments over a period of twelve
years, commencing on September 30, 1980.
6.13      The Source and Disposition of Funds Statement on Table 14 shows
that during six FYs 1977-82 cash generation will be more than sufficient to
meet BPC's requirements. In practice, BPC will have to make some contribu-
tion to the Government from annual surpluses and to pay bonuses to staff.
The basis on which such payments are to be made has not yet been settled.
6.14      In the past, all surplus cash has been deposited in the UGCF and
therefore debt repayments have been made by BPC drawing on a "Financial
Drawings Account". For debt repayment (old debt) due in FY1977 (Kyats
2.8 million) and in FY1979 (Kyats 3.5 million) it has been assumed that
BPC will be required to make these payments from its own resources. In
future BPC will be required to meet all new debt service payments from its
own resources. It has been agreed that BPC will incur additional debt only
if debt service payments, including that on the relending of the proposed
IDA Credit and on any new loans or credits obtained by or made available to
BPC, are covered 1.5 times by BPC's cash generation from operations.
6.15      Forecast balance sheets are shown in Table 15.  In all the finan-
cial tables it has been assumed the proposed IDA Credit would be for US$10.0
million equivalent and that no other borrowings would be required.



- 23 -
E.   The Financial Plan
6.16      The financing plan during the three year period of project imple-
mentation is as follows:
Kyats     Equivalent in
Cash Required                           millions      US$ millions       Percent
Project Expenditures                      109.9           16.2              83
Other Capital Expenditure                  23.1            3.4              17
133.0           19.6             100
Resources
From BPC Cash Resources                    75.1           11.1
Less Required for Debt Service             10.1            1.5
65.0            9.6              49
IDA Credit                                 68.0           10.0              51
133.0           19.6             100
6.17      Of the total capital spending, BPC would find 49% and the proposed
IDA Credit 51%. Included in the BPC contribution is approximately Kyats 24
million for import duties and taxes payable to the Government. Net Investment
is therefore Kyats 109 million of which the new borrowings would contribute
62%.
6.18      The total foreign exchange expenditures amount to US$11.0 million
equivalent. The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million would provide all
the foreign exchange expenditures included in the project, leaving a small
allocation of US$1.0 million to be made available to BPC by the Government
for non-project expenditures on various items for Rangoon and the outports.
Some of those items are in the course of procurement.
6.19      The financing plan is satisfactory and it has been agreed that the
Government will make available to BPC all necessary funds for completion of
the project and to enable BPC to operate efficiently. It was also agreed that
BPC's investment expenditures up to 1981/82 as detailed in Table 4 shall not
be amplified by additional investments except as the Association shall other-
wise agree.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached on the following principal points:
(a) the appointment of a Dredging Expert, by March 31, 1978,
to train Dredger crews and improve efficiency of opera-
tions of the vessel TNY (para 4.08).



- 24 -
(b) the taking of all necessary steps, by BPC, to improve work-
shop maintenance procedures and tralning of craftsmen engaged
on maintenance. Such steps to include the preparation, by
March 31, 1978 of properly drawn up maintenance schedules,
and the appointment of specialists to provide training in
maintenance of equipment (para. 4.09);
(c) the undertaking by BPC to complete rehabilitation of the dredger
TNY by December 31, 1977, and to deepen the port access channel
to a minimum of 15 ft. below datum by December 31, 1978 and to
maintain it to that depth thereafter (para 4.05); and
(d) the earnings from BPC's operations to be not less than 6%
of the average value of net fixed assets (para. 6.12).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for an Association Credit to the
Government of US$10.0 million equivalent on the usual terms. The Government
would onlend the proceeds of the Credit to BPC at 9% p.a. interest, for a
term of 15 years, including a three year grace period.



ANNEX _ 
Page  1
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
The Transport System
1.        Tables 16 and 17 summarize the main features of Burma's transport
network and facilities. Table 17 provides also a break-down of the transport
facilities between the state-owned transport agencies and private operators.
A more detailed description of the Burma Ports Corporation (BPC) and Rangoon
Port is provided in Chapter III. Table 18 provides details on the development
of traffic carried by the state-owned railway (BRC), inland water (IWTC) and
road (RTC) corporations, while Table 19 provides details on traffic through
Rangoon and other ports operated and maintained by the Burraa Ports Corporation
(BPC).
2.        Rail transport services are provided by the state-owned Burma Rail-
ways Corporation (BRC) established in 1972 as a continuation of the former
Union of Burma Railways. The BRC operates a system of 1,949 route miles of
which 225 miles are double tracked. As a result of the poor performance of
the economy, railway freight traffic has declined in the past few years
(Table 3), while passenger traffic has been able to record increases in ex-
cess of 5% per annum. As the volume of passenger traffic is several times
that of the freight traffic, the total railway traffic has in terms of
traffic units (Pass.-km + ton-km) been able to record an increase of about
4% per annum.
3.        Road transport services are provided by the state-owned Road
Transport Corporation (RTC) created in 1963, and by private operators who
collectively carry more than 80% of road freight traffic, mainly short and
medium haul. The RTC is having difficulty in maintaining its capacity due to
lack of spare parts, and privately owned vehicles are over-aged.  The total
number of motor vehicles including cars and motorcycles is estimated to be
slightly less than 60,000 giving a vehicle density of one vehicle per about
550 inhabitants, which is very low by any standard. The road network covers
about 16,000 miles of which about 40% is paved, but most of the roads are
narrow, badly aligned and in need of improvement. Detailed information about
the road sector and its improvement needs are not available but this problem
is being alleviated by the UNDP financed Burma Road Sector Improvement Study
which will start shortly with the Bank acting as the executing agency.
4.        Inland water transport services are provided by the state-owned
Inland Water Transport Corporation (IWTC) and by a large number of private
operators. The passenger and cargo services of the IWTC operate over about
6,000 service miles of the major navigable rivers and carry mostly long haul
traffic. Private operators concentrate mostly on short and medium haul traf-
fic, but carry a large proportion, about 80%, of total freight and passenger
traffic.



ANNEX I
Page 2
5.        The Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation (BFSSC) operates eight
oceangoing vessels, most of them, 9,000-10,000 dwt with a total of 69,000 dwt.
In addition, BFSSC operates 6 coastal vessels of about 10,000 dwt total and
charters a varying number of foreign flag vessels mainly for rice and timber
exports. As a whole, BFSSC carries about 90% of Burma's foreign trade with
its own and chartered vessels. In addition there are some 250 coastal vessels
owned by private operators, but they are relatively small in size.
6.        Burma has one international airport in Rangoon and 42 domestic
airports, of which 34 are served by regular flights. Navigational aids are
of poor range and quality; maintenance and repair facilities are old. The
Burma Airways Corporation (BAC) provides domestic and some international
flights; Burma is also served by other international airlines. Most traffic
is handled at Rangoon International Airport. Air freight traffic is minor
(Table 3).
August 1976.



ANNEX Z
Page 1
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Government Agencies Concerned with Transportation
I.   Ministries
1.        The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC) is responsible
for railway, port, civil aviation and inland water transport infrastructure
works. It sets basic transport policies and controls transport operations
for all modes including dockyards by (a) approving draft budgets of transport
agencies, (b) appointing officers of transport agencies, (c) setting tariff
policy and (d) enforcing regulations for the operation of the sector. It
carries out its activities through four Departments - Civil Aviation, Road
Transport Administration, Marine Administration, and Waterways - and exerts
control over the Burma Airways Corporation (BAC), the Road Transport Corpo-
ration (RTC), the Burma Railways Corporation (BRC), the Inland Water Transport
Corporation (IWTC), the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation (BFSSC), the
Burma Ports Corporation (BPC), the Burma Dockyard Corporation (BDC) and the
Transport Agencies Corporation (TAC), through the coordinating Central Cor-
poration of Transport and Communications (CTCC).
2.        The Ministry of Construction (MOC) is responsible for the planning,
construction and maintenance of highways. It controls the Construction Cor-
poration which is in charge of construction and maintenance of highways.
3.        The Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF) is responsible for the
preparation of Four Year Plans and for the annual budget including the alloca-
tion of foreign exchange. Hence, it reviews and makes final decisions on all
investments including transport investment programs. It is also responsible
for estimating and forecasting traffic demand. Other MOPF functions include:
(a) administration of price and tax policy including transport fares and
rates and taxes related to transportation; and (b) administration of produc-
tion and distribution of spare parts.
4.        The Ministry of Trade (MOT) exerts control over distribution of
transport equipment spare parts, to the private sector, through Trade Corpo-
ration No. 12.
II. Particular Bodies Related to Transport
1.        The Central Movement Coordination Committee (CMCC) comes under the
economic committee within the MOPF and is responsible for the allocation of
Government-controlled commodities. Its chairman is appointed by the Minister
of the MOTC.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.        The Security and Adminstration Council (SAC), headed by the Minister
of Home Affairs, plays a coordinating role in economic, social and administra-
tive matters. At the local government level, the local SAC administers
private carrier licensing for private trucking and inland water vessels.
August 1976



ANNEX 
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORT PROJECT
Cargo Handling Equipment Owned and Operated in Rangoon Port
Number of Units                            Condition %
Under or                            Under or
Date                           Awaiting       Not          In      Awaiting       Not
Description         Acquired   Total   Operating   Repairs    Repairable   Service   Repairs    Repairable
(1) QUAY CRANES
40 ton                Pre-war       1          1          -            -           100         -
10 ton gantry         Pre-war       1          1           -           -           100         -
ton gantry          1974         1         1           -            -           100         -
3 ton
EC                     1940         1          -          1            -            -         100
EC16-19                1963         4          4          -            _           100         -            _
EC15                   1963         1          -          _            1            -          -           100
EC20                   1963        (1)         -          -            (1)          -          -           100
2 ton (EC4-7)         1952         4         4           -            -           100         -            _
1ton (EC9-14)          1957         6          5          -            1            84         -            16
(2) MOBILE CRANES
25 ton Coles
Endurance            1966         1         1           -            -           100         -            _
25 ton Russian         1966         1          -          -            1            -          -           100
10 ton Russian         1957         3          -          -            3            -          -           100
7 ton Coles Proteus  1966          8         1           6            1            12         76          12
7 ton Gen. Super.    1947          2         1           -            1            50         -            50
7 ton P. & H.         1947         1         1           -            -           100         _
5 ton Coles Argus    1962          6         1           -            5            16         -            84
5 ton Nelson          1958        12         5           1            6            42          8           50
(3) STACKING EUIPMENT
1 ton                 1962         9          -          -            9            -          -           100
(4) FORKLIFT TRUCKS
Matbro 60/U            1964         7          -          -             7           -          -           100
Komatsu FD. 33-2       1966        15          -          -           15            -          -           100
Yale; various          1969        24        15           9            -            62         38           -
Balkancar              1972        10          4          6            -            40         60
(5) TRACTORS
Ferguson MF 35         1958         5          -          5            -            -         100           _
Ferguson 3165R         1965        20          2           8          10            10         40           50
Ford 3 000             1969        24         17           7           -            71         29           _
ZWE                    1973         6          3          3            -            50         50
David Brown HT1        1962         1          1           -            -          100         -
Scaumel.25 Ton         1966         1          -          1            -            -         100           -
(6) TRAILERS
1958 or
2 ton                 earlier    73         55           -           18            75         -           25
3 ton                 1965-69    43         31          10            2            72         23            5
5 ton                 1956-70    40          22         10            8            55         25           20
5 ton                 1949        18          -          -           18            -          -           100
10 ton                 1965 or
earlier     3          2           _            1            67         -           33
25 ton                 1957         2          -           _           2            -          _           100
OVERALL              355        178          67         110            50         19           31
Source: BPC
July 1976



ANNEX 4
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Particulars of Pontoons. Bridges and Sponsons in the Port of Rangoon
Original                     Estimated      Estimated
Year                      Cost         Present       Remaining      Book Value    Replacements
Particulare      Built    Quantity    (per unit)    Condition    Useful Life    (per unit)              Needed
Steel Pontoon                                K                                            K
120'x20'x6'6"    1947          10         139,800         Bad           1 year           1,800           10 Nos.
1955         10        236,500          Bad           1 Year         12,000            10 Nos.
1958          6        411,075          Fair          2 years       101,545
1959          4        362,800          Fair          2 years         4,000
1968          6        233,400          Good          3 years        98,515
1973          2        244,150          Good          5 years       122,520
Steel Sponson
30'x20'x5'6"      1959         23          93,995         Bad           1 year           1,044           23 Nos.
1968          6        112,500          Fair          3 years        45,000
1973          4        125,000          Good          5 years       115,500
Steel Tank
Pontoon 500'x40' 1955           1       1,000,000         Bad             Nil           15,000            1 No.
Steel Tank
Pontoon 240'x4O' 1960           2       1,031,214         Bad           1 year         64,451             2 Nos.
1963          2      1,031,214          Fair          2 years        64,451
Steel Tank
Pontoon 2001x40' 1955           5         825,082         Bad           1 year           6,000            5 Nos.
Steel Tank
Pontoon 130'x40' 1963           1         890,560         Fair          2 years       456,412
104' Span Steel
Swing Bridge      1905          6         Unknown         Bad           1 year          Nil               6 Nos.
1955          1         67,406          Bad           1 year         36,000             1 No.
1974          1         80,000          Good          5 years        76,800
90' Span Steel
Swing Bridge      1909          3         Unknown         Bad             Nil            Nil              4 Nos.
80' Span Steel
Swing Bridge      Pre-war      29         Unknown         Bad             Nil            Nil             29 Nos.
1955          2         29,723          Good         12 years        17,834
1960          4         62,500          Good         17 years        43,750
1961          4         62,500          Good         18 years        45,000
1963          2         62,500          Good         20 years        42,250
1964          3         62,500          Good         21 years        48,750
1966          2         62,500          Good         23 years        52,250
100' Span
Bailey Bridge    1946           3        war surplus      Bad             Nil            Nil              3 Nos.
80' Span
Bailey Bridge    1946           2        war surplus      Bad             Nil            Nil              2 Nos.
Source: BPC
July 1976



rTirm       D*Co    637              36O'l"     13't'1   l27'O"   &.O,2oO         12      OA Upia    Co-llr Island          10'    12'       cnyal
96                                          ZI   a               Diesel.OI    Oldo IttildinR
OBIAttE     Tea     ,o  277           26'S       1.1''    lOS'~?    330 IF?         1     StR           1t&--n   1           12'-    1*-'  lneo,'a
sooroonto   nooo'  lOt 6        39'3'      11                   6 '    1''  y/"o  ll'o       541A30P    PA1iris ly-Id    00'    Al'- ey  -ot
T-rdp  206                                           FF at.             .Diesl sA   Fi  tly  oSdAng
5/1955
I-, to3   1002''                                1' 06         &o34  3*I    11,    DIsi   V51   A.2. 3okk-           0'   1lo.       rocrl
Ft 0~~~~~~~~                                           96~~M36 3A    I, s-  543955
F?g7     3'          14t'      211'      03/4                 RIsn  .    lDng&                   5      1' Srnco
232                       ea. 306              Frogoson   ~~~Fsr7att 19631
D-dThq-0n  129                                                                    Olay ...n 4a/l9oS
'1322Atl.   ~;y   1? 3"                      15' ''29'3"    5ll0 032    tO            LA.het       Si-osLiln             0      12'     eosal
ooonr,                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~lik/tshtn    Lid., 1962
iynCt   tOn    370/         1  V       i'         .003      02,O 0-    o3Y      -t  Alpha   P-ytiri  blood    03           1 3'3o2-yl
00                                                              Ot-cc  5.   365  RildIn
1960
07210         UgAh.  060            31-03,     1/'/      0783'J   I30102        00      Stc-          F1stntn  A           ''    10o,       tco  bOa
Is-n    267                                                               raztpro-    I'o-no
sontlos                                                 ahOFg~~~~.ti   1953/S
tiOtoaAl.iD  1000sF  tOt       27'       tO  '"    3lO'       560 BHF      20      Deore 0.00  SOnokeAs  0ob,    7'           7'     tootaO
2ff                                                            13   _DHDba   Bor
BALa  ityory   00.4     20'F't"             Oh')"    tOO.11   roF-  I      -nkin          0045  roy          0'       0'      ---/yablr
noao      C.,       tn.
msgio         Japan 1031910
ntnnl           aens       322        00        8,         100       230SP         y       sI I  atobyoien   Ran             4       4'     Oonyat
t2l   7-          W         M           6                     1922~~~~trs   Dnto  o  Se- -t-
N  I-ft..,  127  2o.  11    82'LO"   115M          10       -,j~~~~005-53            R0                         - -l
wotohoamy  taap   tOO aSP"  i        to'       00 DDP              E`ya tro-ft'                               5'     Iotsat
F-ThO        1oefn 031                20'      l5'        010-       205nlt       10     yrOypa         Chjao    DotS   6'           6'    nayjta
T.-  911        18,       6'T'      85-         26          I~~~~~021,  5 20   FO
Spre8  ot    1902
yatty         asb-a   92 F            I0'll,      6'"      DO'       3260 BH?      9      hoi- caon       --asot                            yoo-i-blaSt
510.  19n)4ff
oytE cl             o     lo          10'R"      y '0"     AS'l"    220 nO         I     diie           Oanal       .,     6         44'   Sa--oDali
M. s- I01d3
Csoadr 194
104
MAT5    MAchasp   000I         200'       04"       yS'D"    Sot ca                 aty           Pa-it   -a-ad   04'         44    Owy-real.
000T           anat    lo             ao          4"       FF'"      tO SP                 e.ynat       ?a-Ift.c-an         04'      44tt'p--y .bl~
Tag                                                                       -:eei         SIlp  -otIngm
-mnyI   r      opO          o         18 'gO    B'         00'       450 555       B     00200          dapen               y'       5'       - --ts
CPPD  BAMA  MA  02 6'                           0'        120'       050 0fF                BAA  Alpha        1965          HOPP5
Ooeel 3,4,3-0                   300B
Oless.O1343-0    1965           Ilppan
IlI55R?  5     -rs  deedetre          27 By      6'        lo,        c3  Do 040            tsns   0    P.-oa-sroo    0340 ro,    OF 55t0t  /
83209         Ap-R de4dte   2- 1'                          70'        83 NI      4hOss   LD   Poa.-,.                   oo    0400.           losojs  6
MISIP? I       Hafls  b-rp            27'        6'        80s         --o,e ---                               1040
001640  2     aapp  eg    -            0        6'         32 2--                 It          ---s             109s
I1f*P 3       trappe  tb-es-          22'        6'        32            -        to           ,               1940
224  OABM.t            -      24'       6'       I'            -         ct           ---              1032
156500  A                   -      l         '       07'6-                   teS          '-tP



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Project Description
1.        The project covers the last year, 1977/78, of the BPC Second 4-year
Plan and the first two years, 1978/79 and 1979/80, of the Third 4-year Invest-
ment Plan. The project is designed to prevent Rangoon port from becoming
a serious bottleneck to the economy by undertaking long overdue replacements
and rehabilitation works by stabilizing and deepening the access channel
between the sea and the port and by improvements to cargo handling and other
facilities. It includes the following items:
A.   The rehabilitation/repair of and provision of spare parts for:
(a) Suction dredger "Thaung Naing Yay" which will be
utilized for deepening and maintaining the Rangoon
access channel to 15 ft. below Datum.
(b) Dredger "Kyant Khaing Yay" for maintaining the
required dredged depths at the port berths and
in the port as necessary.
(c) Pilot vessel, survey vessel and buoy tender and grab
dredgers for port services.
(d) Cargo handling equipment (including forklift trucks,
mobile cranes, tractors, and trailers).
B.   The purchase of:
(a) New cargo handling equipment (including mobile cranes,
forklift trucks, tractors, trailers, and low loaders)
to replace worn out and irreparable equipment.
(b) Position finding equipment and navigational aids
for precision dredging of channels and the accurate
marking of such channels.
(c) Steel, mooring chains and plant, machinery and
ancillary equipment for replacement and/or repair
of steel pontoons, sponsons and bridges at riverside
berths.
(d) Workshop machinery and tools to improve facilities
for repair and maintenance of cargo handling equipment
and vessels.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
C. The provision of services for:
(a) Preparation of documentation for dredger rehabili-
tation/repairs and supervision.
(b) Training of dredger crews (including technical
assistance).
(c) Training of workshop technicians in the use of
new machinery and in new maintenance procedures
(including technical assistance).
D   The dredging of the Rangoon Sea Access channel to a
depth of fifteen feet below datum and its maintenance
at that depth.
2.        The dredging of the port access channel after rehabilitation of the
dredger TNY is an essential operation upon which the future of the port of
Rangoon could depend. A study was carried out under UNDP Grant BUR/72/008 to
ascertain the feasibility of deepening the access channels by various incre-
mental depths and what would be involved both operationally and financially.
The optimum solution will be to'dredge to 15 ft. minimum depth and this would
allow access to the port for 15,000 dwt ships on most tides (as at present for
10,000 dwt ships). The quantities of dredging which would be necessary will
be within the capacity of the existing suction dredger TNY after rehabilitation
subject to the effective maintenance and operation of the dredger by BPC. The
feasibility of capital dredging by contract has been examined but the compara-
tively small quantities are unlikely to be of interest to contractors and bids
obtained (if any) would be high because of large plant mobilization costs.
3.        The question of rehabilitation of the TNY versus purchase of a new
dredger has also been examined in relation to future dredging demand. The
cost of rehabilitation of the TNY (capacity 870 cu. m) has been estimated at
US$1.0 million and this should provide a further 10 years working life to the
dredger with an annual operating cost of about US$0.5 million equivalent. (The
cost of a new dredger of 1500 cu. m capacity could be about US$8.0 million with
an annual operating cost of about US$1.2 million equivalent.) To continue to
operate the TNY even at the present level of dredging would involve an annual
expenditure of some US$250,000. In view of the limited amount of dredging
required and the present and prospective trends of traffic in Rangoon port,
the purchase of a new dredger would be imprudent.
4.        While it is clearly understood that the dredger TNY is being rehab-
ilitated for deepening the Rangoon port access channel, it is a necessary
corollary that such channel deepening will be carried out by BPC as soon as
possible.
August 1976



BNRMA                                                               ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OP A SECOND RANGOON PORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Sahedole
-   -   -   -   -   ---------    C A L E N D A R    Y E A R S   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
19 76              1977                     1978                      1979                     1980               1981
J A,S 0 N D J F M A M 3 3 A S 0 N D JF N A M J J A S 0 N D J P N A M JJ A   0S  N D J F M A M J 3  A S 0 N D J F M AN M
Rehabilitation of Dredger TNY
Specifications and Tender Dvnoents             -  -  -
Prequalification
Tendering, and GOB and IDA approvals
Contract Awards
Rehabilitation
Renpirs to other dredgers
Specification and Tender D.,esento                        --
Tendering, and GCO  and IDA approvals
Contract Awards                                                             a                *   a
Delivery of spares and materials
Repairs
Repairs to sorvey. buon and pilot vessels
Specifiiation of eaterials and spare parts
Tendering, and GOB end IDA approvals
Contract Awards                                                      a
Delivery of Materials
Repairs
Position finders and navaids
Specifications and Tender Docuqents          '         --
Tendering, and GOB and IDA approvals
Contract Awards                                                             *                        5
Delivery
Installation
Spnres for Cargo Handling EIsipsent
Specifications and Tender Docssenrs
Tendering, and GOB and IDA Approvals
Contract Awards                                                           a                  a
Delivery
Procorenent of Cargo Handline ERqiveent
Specifications snd Tender Doconcnts
Prequalification
Tendering, and GOB and IDA Approvals
Contract Awards                                                                   *a *
Delivery
Machinery, Tools and Esoipment
Specifications and Tender Doc-.ents
Tendering, and GOB and IDA Approvals 
Contract Awards                                                                 s   e   *   5        *
Delivery
Installation
Pontoons. Bridges and Ancillaries
Specifications and Tender Deoents
Tendering, and GOB and IDA Approvals
Contract Awards .
Delivery of Materials ane fittings
Fsbri cation
Training/Technieal Assistance
Training of Dredger Crews
Training of Workshops Personnel
Training-Planning/Finance
Deepen'ng of f-annel
Primary dre-ging
Source Bank Staff
Au.gst 1976



ANNEX 8
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
Disbursement
Fiscal Year         Quarter             Quarter          Cumulative
1978                1                 80                   80
2                120                 200
3                650                 850
4                750                1600
1979                1               1100                 2700
2               1500                4200
3               1400                5600
4               1250                6850
1980                1                750                 7600
2                950                8550
3                6o0                9150
4                450                9600
1981                1                250                9850
2                150               10000
Source: Bank Staff
July 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Forecast Freight Traffic, Rangoon Port, 1975/76 - 1991/92
A. General
1.        The forecast development of exports and imports through Rangoon port
is shown in Table 6 for each of the years 1976/77 - 1981/82 with projections
for 1986/87 and 1991/92. The initial forecast made in the UNDP study has been
modified by taking into account the overall assessment of the Burmese economy
contained in the latest Bank Economic Report on Burma 1/ and the likely impact
of ongoing and sanctioned development projects. In the following paragraphs a
few comments are presented on the forecast by main commodities.
B. Coastal Traffic
2.        The project is mainly related to Burma's foreign trade, as only
in this trade are ships used which experience draft restrictions and would
thus benefit from deepening of the sea access channel. The Project includes,
however, also a component for improvement of pontoons and jetties which are
used for coastal and inland water transport. In recent years, this traffic
has amounted to about 1 million tons annually, consisting mainly of the move-
ment of rice, pulses, other agricultural products and of cement and other
construction materials.
3.        It may be estimated that about 40%, or 400,000 tons of this
traffic is related to exports and imports, while the remaining 600,000 tons
represent agricultural products and construction materials for Rangoon itself.
No detailed forecasts have been prepared for the coastal and inland water
transport, but it may be expected that it will show a development similar to
that of foreign trade, excluding timber and petroleum, oil and lubricants
(POL), i.e. increase by about 3%-5% per annum. The growth rate would be
similar for the commodities consumed within Rangoon itself.
1/ Development in Burma: Issues and Prospects, Vols. I and II, March 2,
1976 (No. 1024-BA)



ANNEX 9
Page 2
C. Exports
Rice
4.        Rice exports are expected to increase by about 3.5% p.a. from about
500,000 tons achieved in 1975/76 to about 615,000 tons in 1981/82 (Table 6).
This growth rate is to be considered realistic, if not conservative, on the
basis of recent changes in Government policies 1/, which through higher procure-
ment prices and other support measures, have substantially increased produc-
tion incentives. However, because of the very low levels of rice exports in
early 1970's, the overall growth rate for the 20-year period 1971/72-1991/92
is not expected to exceed 1.0% p.a.; the forecast for 1986/87 of 740,000 tons
]oes not exceed the exports achieved in 1971/72, 748,000 tons (Table 6).
Timber
5.        Several independent assessments indicate that timber represents
Burma's perhaps greatest export potential. About 75% of the world's teak
resources are located in Burma, and other tropical hardwoods are also abundant.
The annual self-sustaining yields have been estimated at about 350,000 tons
of teak and up to 2 million of marketable non-teak hardwood 2/), while the
average annual removal has only been about 60% of potential yields. As a
result, there is considerable backlog of marketable teak and other hardwoods.
The long-term export market is good and the potential foreign exchange earnings
considerable with relatively modest initial investments. Such a project is
currently being prepared with IDA-assistance.
6.        On basis of the above, timber exports have been assumed to increase
by 8.5% p.a. from about 170,000 tons in 1975/76 to 275,000 tons in 1981/82
(Table 6). Although the export potential is substantially higher, it may be
advisable not to overlook the practical difficulties to be overcome in form
of: (i) lack of forest access roads; (ii) insufficient extraction machinery;
(iii) inadequate availability of spares and maintenance of equipment; (iv)
insufficient transport power units. After these bottlenecks are removed, it
may be advisable to revise the forecast upwards, particularly from 1981/82
onwards.
Pulses, Vegetable Oil and Other Agricultural Products
7.        Agricultural products other than rice have accounted for about 1/3
of total Burmese exports, consisting mainly of pulses, vegetable oil (oil
cakes), and more recently also of jute. The export of these products is
1/ op. cit., Vol. II, Annex II, "Agriculture: Performance, Prospects
and Priorities."
2/ op. cit., Vol. I, p.61.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
expected to show a growth rate of about 5% p.a., but remain stagnant if
compared with the export volumes achieved in the early 1970's (Table 6)
and considerably less than achieved in the early 1960's.
8.        This stagnant growth may be explained by two main factors.  First,
rice production is given a high priority by the Government and the recent
increase of rice procurement prices tends to make other agricultural pro-
duction less attractive. Second, the continuous increase in population tends
to consume any increases in marketable surpluses. Although their share of
total exports will decline from about 1/3 to 1/4, they will continue to remain
important foreign exchange earners. Burmese jute, for instance, is stated to
have relatively good export prospects because of its quality. In general,
Burma's agricultural potential is substantial with corresponding world market
demand. It may, however, take a considerable time period before the most
serious constraints for increased production have been removed.
9.        Because of their close relationship in Burma, export and imports
of POL products are discussed simultaneously. At present, the three main
factors influencing the volume of exports and imports -- domestic production,
consumption and refining capacity -- are of equal order of magnitude, about
1.2 million tons a year. Therefore, there is basically no need for exports
or imports in the present situation. That some exports and imports take
place in spite of this balance, is explained below with the expected long
term development prospects.
10.       Exports of POL products amount at present to about 50,000 tons
annually and consists solely of derivatives -- paraffin wax, petroleum coke,
naphtha and furnace oil -- not consumed in the country. The volume of these
derivatives is closely related to the refining capacity; with an increase
in this capacity, exports of derivatives will also automatically increase.
There are plans to increase the refining capacity from the present 1.2 mil-
lion tons annually to 2.2 million tons annually by 1980/81, which would
result in an increase to about 150,000 tons in exports of derivatives.
In preparation of the forecast, it has been assumed that there will be some
delay to 1982/83 in commissioning the additional capacity. Consequently,
it has been assumed that about 50,000 tons of POL products will be exported
annually during the period 1976/77 - 1981/82 and 150,000 tons thereafter
(Table 6).
11.       There have been considerable fluctuations in imports of POL products
in the past (Table 6) reaching up to 290,000 tons in 1974/75. The main reason
for these imports has not been insufficient domestic crude, but problems in
transporting it from the production areas to the refineries. These problems
are now being solved by construction of a pipeline to the Syriam refinery
close to Rangoon and by improving the efficiency of barge transport of crude
oil. As a result of these and other economizing efforts, imports of POL
products were reduced to about 44,000 tons in 1975/76. About 26,000 tons of
these imports were for a lube-oil plant, which will continue to use imported
crude because the domestic crude is not suitable for this specific purpose.



ANNEX 9.
P ttgf /!
12.       The total imports of POL products is estimated at 150,000 tons
annually throughout the forecast period (1976/77 - 1991/92) (Table 6).
About 30,000 tons of this total is for the lube-oil plant, while the remaining
120,000 tons is likely to consist of various refined products until the
refining capacity has been increased by 1982/83 and thereafter of imported
crude to meet fluctuations in domestic supply.
13.       The forecast is necessarily only an approximate one, and there may
quite well be annual fluctuations around the forecast level of exports and
imports of about 200,000 tons up to 1981/82 and 300,000 tons thereafter. Any
large scale exports of crude oil and/or refined products is less likely
through Rangoon port unless there is a substantial delay in commissioning the
planned increase in refining capacity. On the other hand, it should be noted
that this does not preclude exports of POL products from Burma in general, as
the forecast concerns only Rangoon port. For instance, should the presently
ongoing off-shore oil explorations result in substantial finds, any exports
would not be channeled through Rangoon. No attempt has been made to assess
Burma's overall oil potential and production prospects, particularly as they
still are subject to considerable uncertainty and not directly relevant for
the port project.
D. Imports
14.       Apart from POL products Burma's imports consist of general cargo
and coal. Coal is mainly used by the electric power plant in Rangoon and
by the Burma Railways Corporation (BRC). The import of coal has during the
past years fluctuated around 150,000 tons annually (Table 6), this level of
consumption is expected to continue until 1981/82. Any decrease in the use
of coal by BRC during this period is likely to be compensated by other users
and in any event, such decrease is expected to be a minor one as one of
the economizing measures include reconditioning of steam locomotives. Coal
consumption is expected to decrease somewhat by 1982/83, because the new
refining capacity will allow the conversion of the power plant from coal to
oil.
15.       General cargo imports are closely related to export earnings,
particularly of rice. Because of foreign exchange constraints, these imports
have for a considerable time been kept on a minimum level. There is a very
serious shortage of imported goods, whether for productive purposes or for
consumption. Consequently, any additional export revenue will quickly be
utilized for a corresponding increase in imports.
16.       The forecasted development of general cargo imports has thus been
prepared by taking into account the expected development of exports. In
addition, it has been assumed that increased multilateral and bilateral
project and other aid will allow for some additional imports of essential
goods. In spite of this, the volume of general cargo imports is not expected
to increase by more than about 4.6% p.a., without creating an unreasonable
burden on the balance of payments. It is unlikely that Burma's terms of trade



ANNEX 9
Page 5
will substantially improve in future; on the contrary it is more likely
that Burma's import prices will increase at a higher rate than her exports.
This will naturally reduce the possibility for any substantial increase in
import volume.
17.       Of the total general cargo imports, non-electric machinery, spare
parts, iron and steel products and materials represented the largest import
item, 160,000 tons, or more than 35% in 1975/76, followed by chemicals (9%),
raw cotton-and materials (8%), paper and paperboard (6%) and fertilizers
(5%). Most of the imports thus consist of essential investment goods and
production inputs. Imports of consumption goods have been scaled to a bare
minimum and consist mainly of manufactured foodstuffs such as milk prepara-
tions and of medicine and pharmaceutical products.
August 1976



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECONID FORTS PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation
A. General
1.        The project benefits have been calculated as the difference in
shipping and cargo handling "without" and "with" the project. Specifically
these savings consist of the following three components:
(i) reduced ship waiting times for arriving and departing ocean
going vessels as a result of the channel deepening;
(ii) reduced shipping costs per ton of exports and imports resulting
from the use of large ships made possible by the deeper channel;
(iii) reduced cargo handling costs in Rangoon port as a result of
improved cargo handling equipment.
2.        In the "without project" case the channel would further deteriorate
from its present 12 ft. below datum to 10 ft. below datum. This would result
in increased ship waiting times and increasingly restrict the use of 10,000
dwt ton vessels which are now standard for the Burma - Northern Europe trade.
The "without project" case would also result in further deterioration in
cargo handling rates increasing both ship turnaround times and cargo handling
costs per ton. These deteriorating conditions have been assumed to restrict
any further growth of exports and imports through Rangoon port. Partly the
general level of foreign trade may be reduced as a result of costlier exports,
partly the shipments may be diverted at higher cost to the smaller coastal
ports or increasingly to lighterage outside the Rangoon port area during the
monsoon season. It should be noted, however, that the assumption of constant
exports and imports in the "without project" case has no benefit increasing
effect, because the benefits are calculated as difference in costs for the
traffic volumes forecast in the "with project" case. The assumption has
rather been introduced to demonstrate that the calculated benefits may be
conservatively assessed to the extent the value added of the foreign trade
which may be lost in the "without project" case is larger than the cost
savings per ton handled. Another source of conservative assessment is that
the costs in the "without project" case have not been assumed to be noticeably
higher than their present level. Furthermore, cost savings have been calcu-
lated only for one unloading/loading operation per ton handled, whereas for
part of the foreign trade related coastal/inland water traffic double hand-
ling may be necessary. This approach has been chosen to avoid any possibility
of double counting of traffic and benefits.



ANNEX 10f
Page 2
3.        The "with project" case assumes improvements as described in
Chapter IV and an estimated traffic development detailed in Annex 3 and Table
6. Further details on the effect of the project investment on ship sizes and
cargo handling is presented below.
4.        In addition to the evaluation of the economic rate of return "with"
and "without" the project as defined above, an additional evaluation has been
undertaken on an incremental basis by calculating the economic rate of return
for: (i) the investment required to maintain the present situation ("status quo"
case; channel depth, shipping pattern and cargo handling unchanged) and (ii)
the incremental investment required to undertake the project as proposed.
For further details see para. 32 below.
5.        The calculation of costs and other inputs necessary for the eco-
nomic evaluation have essentially been based on the consultants (Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners, U.K. and Nedeco, The Netherlands) study 1/ with adjustments
undertaken during the appraisal.
B. Reduced Ship Waiting Times
6.        Ship waiting times entering and leaving Rangoon port are caused in
addition to the channel depth by volume of traffic type and size of ships
used, tidal and seasonal variations in water depth and seasonal variations
in trade.
7.        Expected traffic development has been detailed in Annex 3 and
Table 20 shows the origin-destination pattern of exports and imports. The
origin-destination pattern is important, because it is a major determinant in
choice of ship size. The longer the route, the larger the ship tends to be.
Thus, the largest, 10,000 dwt ships are used almost exlusively on the Burma -
Northern Europe route, which is 14,000 miles in roundtrip (via Suez). Also
on the Burma - Japan/Far East route the larger ships are dominant (10,000
miles in roundtrip). In fact, the only limitation for even larger ships being
introduced, are draft restrictions imposed by the Rangoon sea access channel.
On the other hand, smaller ships are used in the India/South East Asia trade
(4,000 miles roundtrip). About half of this trade is carried by 10,000 dwt
ships, the remaining half with smaller ships, not experiencing draft restric-
tions. It is not expected that larger than 10,000 dwt ships would be intro-
duced for this trade (except POL) even with the deepening of the Rangoon sea
access channel, partly because similar draft restrictions exist in some other
major ports in the area (e.g. Bangkok, Calcutta) and partly because of the
relatively short distances involved.
1/   Rangoon Sea Access Channel and Associated Port Improvement Study, Final
Report, Vols. I-IV, March 1976.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
8.        As shown in Table 20, India/South East Asia accounts for about 60%
of Burma's total exports and almost 50% of her imports (including POL traffic).
This pattern is estimated to continue in the future for exports, while the
relative share of imports will decrease somewhat. Northern Europe and Japan/
Far East account about equally for the remainder of Burma's foreign trade, or
about 20% each.
9.        Without the project, the shipping pattern will continue more or less
as at present, i.e., the Northern Europe and Japan/Far East trade with 10,000
dwt ships, and about half of the India/South East Asia trade with smaller
ships. On basis of Table 20, the following number of departures and arrivals
by 10,000 dwt vessels can be calculated assuming an average cargo of 5,000
tons per ship:
Northern        Japan/        India/
Year                  Europe        Far East    S.E. Asia         Other      Total
1976/77                 73              79            96           13         261
1981/82                 88             94            125           15         322
1986/87                109            115            150           17         391
1991/92                132            141            168           19         460
For these arrivals and departures, some draft restrictions would be experienced
as detailed below.
10.       With the project, a gradual introduction of larger and more economic
15,000 dwt ships would take place. For the Northern Europe route, it is
assumed that all trade would be carried by such ships by 1981/82 and for the
Japan/Far East route by 1986/87, while the India/S.E. Asia trade would continue
to use the 10,000 dwt ships (except for POL traffic which would also use the
larger ships). The distribution of exports and imports between these two
classes of ships is estimated as follows:
% of total
10,000 dwt ships                15,000 dwt ships          by 10,000 dwt
Year     Exports  Imports  Total        Exports   Imports   Total         ships
1976/77   1,065    750       1,815         -         -         -          100.0
1981/82   1,015    475       1,490        295       420       715          67.7
1986/87     930    215       1,145        760       745    1,505           43.2
1991/92   1,120    205       1,325        895       865    1,760           42.7
11.       With the project, the 10,000 dwt ships would not experience any
draft restrictions in Rangoon channel.  As detailed below, the 15,000 dwt
ships would experience about similar restrictions as the 10,000 dwt ships
at present. The number of departures and arrivals with the 15,000 dwt ships
is calculated as follows with an average of 8,000 tons of cargo per ship:



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Northern       Japan/       S.E. Asia
Year             Europe       Far East        (P.O.L.)      Total
1976/77             -            -
1981/82            70            -               27           97
1986/87            84            77              47          208
1991/92           100            94              47          241
12.       The present channel depth is about 12 ft. below datum (lowest low
water), 28 ft. at High Water Spring Tide (HWS) and 23-24 ft. at High Water
neap Tide (HWN).  Table 7 shows the results of a survey undertaken in 1973,
indicating the number of days in each calendar month a particular draft depth
could not be achieved. The Table shows the draft varied from 21 ft. to 28 ft.
and above. A 10,000 dwt ship has an average draft of 25 ft. laden and would
thus experience draft restrictions in about 100 days per year assuming random
arrival. It is to be noted that the results in Table 7 indicate depths during
high tide. With tidal variations up to 19 ft., it is natural that some delays
would also be experienced on days when the depth exceeded 25 ft. if the ship
arrived at low tide. These delays caused by tidal variations have however not
been further considered because the tidal conditions are well recorded and
available for the shipping lines.
13.       Table 7 can also be used to study the effect on variations in channel
depth and ship sizes. Thus a 10,000 dwt ship would experience delays as for a
27 ft. ship at present (211 days) if there should be further deterioration to
10 ft. below datum. On the other hand, with a deepening of the channel to 15
ft. below datum, a 15,000 dwt vessel (28 ft. draft), would experience similar
delays as a 10,000 dwt vessel today (102 days).
14.       Fortunately the seasonal variations in trade are similar to seasonal
variation in water depth. The highest level of exports takes place during the
monsoon season April to September when the water level is also highest. Fol-
lowing monthly trade indices are recorded for Rangoon, 100 representing the
average:
Jan.  Feb.  March  April  May  June  July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.
70    88    80      110   130   130   130  100   100    100    90    80
15.       Taking into account the seasonal variations in channel depth (Table
7) and seasonal variations in trade, the following average ship waiting time
can be calculated for the two ship sizes considered:
Channel              Waiting time in days per departure and arrival
Depth
ft. below            10,000 dwt                  15,000 dwt
Datum                    ship                       ship
10                   0.640                    not possible to enter
12                   0.125                    5.333
15                   0                        0.640
17                   0                        0.125
19 and over          0                        0



ANNEX 10
Page 5
16.        The annual fixed costs for the two ship sizes has been calculated
to be (in thousand US dollars):
10,000 dwt         15,000 dwt
Capital cost /a                           1,140              1,505
Insurance                                   160                200
Crew                                        100                120
Spares and repairs                          100                120
Provisions and stores                        90                100
1,640             2,045
/a   At 10% interest rate and 20 year life; purchase price US$10
million and US$13 million respectively.
The average daily fixed cost becomes US$4,500 for the 10,000 dwt and US$5,600
for the 15,000 dwt ship.
17.       The annual ship waiting costs can now be calculated without and
with the project by taking the number of arrivals and departures (paras. 8
and 10) the average waiting time per ship (para. 14) and the fixed daily
cost above:
thousand US dollars
Without Project-                With Project/c                 Difference
No. of d7?.                     No. of dT.                    (saving)
Year       and arr.-        Total cost   and arr.-         Total cost   in cost
1976/77       261                752           261             752             0
1981/82       322                927            97             347          580
1986/87       391              1,126           208             745          381
1991/92       460              1,325           241             864          461
/a   experiencing draft restrictions.
/b   channel depth 10 ft. below Datum, average waiting time 0.640 days per
10,000 dwt ship.
/c   channel depth 15 ft. below Datum, average waiting time 0.640 days per
15,000 dwt ship.
C. Reduced Shipping Costs
18.       The cost of shipping one ton of exports or imports would be
reduced for two reasons:



ANNEX 10
Page 6
(i)  with increasing size, the ship costs increase proportionally
less than the carrying capacity;
(ii) the ship turnaround time in Rangoon port is reduced because
of improved cargo loading and unloading rates.
19.       The two ship types have been estimated to have the following annual
cargo carrying capacity;
10,000 dwt                              15,000 dwt
Northern   Japan/    India!    Northern   Japan/    India!   /
Europe   Far East S.E. Asia    Europe   Far East  S.E. Asia -
Roundtrip
distance              lb                                /b
(miles)         14,000-  10,000       4,000      14,000-   10,000       4,000
Ports of
call                6           7          4           6          7         2
Seadays per
roundtrip         46          30         13         34         24         10
Portdays
per round-            Ic
trip            55(52)/-   50(47)    42(39)       75(71)      70(66)       8
Roundtrip
duration
(days)        101(98)      80(77)    55(52)    109(105)    94(90)         18
Roundtrips
per year        3.6(3.7)   4.5(4.7)  6.5(6.9)   3.3(3.4)   3.8(4.0)    20.0
Cargo
capacity per
year, tons      36,000    45,000    65,500       52,800    60,800   320,000
(37,500)  (46,500)  (69,000)   (54,400)  (64,000)
/a   Only POL traffic, with the present type of ships, the number of
seadays would be 14 days per roundtrip and annual carrying capacity
260,000 tons.
/b   via Suez canal.
/c   The figures in brackets indicate the situation after taking into
account improved loading and unloading conditions in Rangoon port.



ANNEX 10
Pr ge 7
20.        The annual fixed costs of US$1,640,000 for the 10,000 dwt and
US$2,045,000 for the 15,000 dwt ship have already been mentioned in para.
15 above. To this come the annual variable costs:
US$ thousand
Variable cost                    10,000 dwt                        15,000 dwt
Northern    Japan/         India/   Northern   Japan/         India/ /
Europe    Far East   S.E. Asia   Europe   Far East   S.E. Asia-
Diesel oil       89          89           89          160         160           160
Lubricating
oil          13         13            13           22         22             22
Fuel oil        242         190           90          420         354           530
Port charges   148          110           63          206         148            20
Suez canal
dues          84         -              -          128         -
Variable
costs          576        412           255          936        684            732
Fixed costs  1,640       1,640         1,640        2,045      2,045          2,045
Total costs  2,216       2,052         1,895        2,981      2,729          2,777
/a   POL traffic only.
21.        The cost per ton of exports and imports can now be calculated by
dividing the annual costs with the ship carrying capacity:
Cost per ton, US$
Northern       Japan/         India/            POL
Europe       Far East       S.E. Asia        traffic
Without project        61.55          45.60          28.90            10.70
With project           54.80/         42.60          27.45             8.70
Difference (saving)   6.75 -           3.00-          1.45             2.00
/a   This saving would be applicable only when the larger 15,000 dwt ships
are introduced; before that the saving per ton would be US$2.45 for the
Northern Europe trade and US$1.45 for the Japan/Far East trade.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
22.       The shipping costs of Burma's exports and imports without the pro-
ject have been detailed in Table 10. In Table 9 the corresponding shipping
costs with the project have been presented. The shipping costs in the ongoing
year 1976/77 have been estimated at US$69.4 million, which equals an average
cost of US$38.2 per ton of exports and imports. The total may be compared
with the value of exports and imports (mainly recorded on f.o.b. basis), which
was US$437.5 million in 1974/75. The shipping costs thus represent some 15%
of the total exports and imports. The shipping services balance is likely to
be in favor of Burma, as about 90% of the trade is carried by Burmese flag
vessels and the export volume is normally substantially in excess of the
import volume.
23.       With the project (Table 9) the impact is gradually felt from 1978/79
onwards, while full benefits are first obtained in 1985/86, when all of the
shipping traffic has adjusted itself to the deeper channel and improved cargo
handling in port. In 1986/87, the average shipping costs per ton of exports
and imports is estimated to be US$35.0. This represents a saving of about
US$3.1 per ton as a result of the project investment, or an 8.4% reduction
in shipping costs. It is to be noted, that the saving could possibly be
even larger, but a conservative view has been taken of the effect the project
will have on ship turnaround times in Rangoon port as a result of improved
cargo handling. This has been done in order to avoid a possibility of attri-
buting such benefits to the project which in fact are generated by measures
not directly related to the project such as management training.
D. Reduced Cargo Handling Costs
24.       According to the BPC, average cost of cargo handling per ton of
exports and imports is about US$4 per ton (to port gate). As described in
Chapter IV, the cargo handling equipment is in poor condition and far too
few pieces exist in operational condition. It is obvious that by introduction
of new equipment and better maintenance and repair procedures, improvements in
cargo handling rates will be possible (these rates are today for exports about
125 tons per gang for a 12 hour shift and for imports about 75 tons per
gang/shift). Empirical observations made during the appraisal indicate, in
respect of forklift trucks for instance, only about a quarter (18 operational)
of the total requirement of about 70 were available. Similarly, because of
lack of heavier back-up equipment (trucks, tractors, mobile cranes, etc.)
exports tended not to be on ship side in sufficient volumes and imports tended
to pile up on quay or elsewhere in the port area.
25.       The project includes, therefore a provision for cargo handling
equipment, spares, workshop equipment, etc. A substantial part of this pro-
vision represents replacements which have to be undertaken anyway during the
project period, while the remainder represents restoration of the equipment
fleet to its size and condition in the late 1960's. Without these invest-
ments, the cargo handling rates are conservatively estimated to deteriorate
by a further 10%, while an improvement of 5% to 10% may be expected in these
rates with the project. The difference in cargo handling rates would thus



ANNEX 10
Page 9
be 15% to 20% with and without the project, although improvements in cargo
handling rates of 35% would be possible with the project. MSuch of this higher
improvement rate will, however, depend not only on availability of equipment,
but also on other factors such as an improveinent in labor productivity. It
has been considered unwarranted to count the improvement in these other areas
as a benefit to the project.
26.       Compared with the present cost of US$4 per ton, the cost of cargo
handling is thus estimated at US$4.50 per ton without and US$3.75 with the
project representing a saving of about US$0.75 per ton handled. Without
the project, a considerable part of the equipment would within the next 4-5
years become non-operational and manual operations would be introduced, where
feasible. Total savings with the project have been summarized in Table 8.
E. Results of Economic Evaluation
27.       The results of the economic evaluation are summarized in Table 8.
The first minor cost reductions (project benefits) are obtained in 1978/79,
which increase progressively until 1986/87, at which time the shipping opera-
tions have fully adjusted themselves to the deeper channel and improved cargo
handling conditions in Rangoon port.
28.       Without the project the total ship waiting costs in channel, shipping
costs and cargo handling costs would in 1986/87 amount to US$112.3 million,
representing US$42.4 per ton.  With the project, the corresponding costs would
be reduced to US$101.7 million (US$38.4 per ton), representing a saving of
US$10.6 million, or a 9.4% reduction in total costs.
29.       With these cost reductions, the economic rate of return has been
calculated over the project life to 37%. The return is based on a project
cost of US$13.0 million equivalent, which includes contingencies of 20% on
estimated direct cost, but excludes the commodities and services and import
taxes.
30.       The economic rate of return is so high that it is not sensitive to
any realistically foreseeable variations in basic parameters. With an assumed
20% increase in project cost (which already includes 20% in contingencies) and
a corresponding percentage decrease in project benefits the return would still
be a high 25%.
31.       The benefits obtainable from the project investment will be passed
on to the Burmese economy for the following reasons:



ANNEX I0
Page 10
(i) About 90% of Burmese foreign trade is shipped by the
state-owned Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation (BFSSC)
or by vessels chartered by BFSSC:
(ii) all of the foreign trade-related activities are in
Burmese ownership.
F. Return on Incremental Investment
32.       In addition to the above evaluation of project investment, the
economic rate of return has been calculated on an incremental basis. For
this purpose, the project investment was divided into two parts: (i) the
investment required to maintain the port in its present condition ("status
quo" case; channel depth unchanged at 12 ft. below Datum, no increase in
ship size above 10,000 dwt and no increase in cargo handling equipment);
(ii) the incremental investment required over and above the "status quo"
case to undertake the project as proposed.
33.       The investment necessary in the "status quo" case is estimated at
about US$9.0 million (net of taxes), details are given in Table 23. This
estimate may be compared with the project investment of about US$13.0 mil-
lion (net of taxes, Table 5). Major reductions in investment are obtained
in overhaul of the dredger (TNY), cargo handling equipment, and pontoons and
bridges, but for the most part the project consists of investments which have
to be undertaken anyway to keep the port operational. The difference in
investment of about US$4.0 million represents the incremental investment to
deepen the channel to 15 ft. below Datum and to improve the cargo handling
operations.
34.       The benefits in the "status quo" case consist of avoided increases
in costs resulting from longer ship waiting times and reduced cargo handling
rates. If no dredging of the channel were to be undertaken, it would deter-
iorate to about 10 ft. below Datum, which would cause the average delay of a
10,000 dwt vessel to increase from 0.125 days to 0.640 days (para. 15). With
a daily cost of about US$4,500 (para. 16), the longer delay would result in
an additional cost of about US$2,300 per arrival and departure. With the
number of arrivals and departures detailed in para. 9, the savings in avoided
increases in ship waiting costs were obtained as detailed in Table 22. These
would amount to about US$0.66 million in 1979/80, increasing gradually to about
US$1.0 million by 1991/92.
35.       Without any investment, the cargo handling rates are estimated to
deteriorate by about 10% resulting in an increase of these costs from the
present US$4.00 per ton to about US$4.50 per ton. With forecast traffic
volumes in Table 6, the benefits in the form of avoided increases in cargo
handlng costs would amount to about US$1.0 million in 1979/80, increasing
to some US$1.6 million by 1991/92. There would be no savings in shipping
costs.



ANNEX 10
Page 11
36.       On the above basis, the benefits in the form of avoided cost
increases would amount to US$1.67 million ir 1979/80 increasing to about
US$2.6 million in 1991/92. The actual benefits would, however, be slightly
lower as there would be a need for maintenance dredging, costing about US$0.25
million per year. The economic return has on this basis been calculated at
about 12% (Table 2).
37.       The benefits for the incremental US$4.0 million investment have been
detailed in Table 23. They represent the difference in benefits for the full
project investment in Table 8 and the benefits for the "status quo" case in
Table 22.  The benefits consist of savings in shipping and cargo handling
costs. On the other hand, the costs for maintenance dredging would increase
from about US$0.25 million to US$0.67 million a year (because of the deeper
channel).  In addition, the costs for ship waiting times would slightly in-
crease, if compared with the "status quo" case, mainly because of the higher
capital cost of the larger 15,000 dwt vessels. Assuming conservatively, that
only one half of the estimated reductions in shipping costs would be passed on
to the Burmese economy, the economic rate of return on the US$4.0 million
incremental investment has been calculated at about 60%.
August 1976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Volume And Value Of Major Exports By Commodity
1/     2/
1965      1966       1967     1968    1969    1970       1971      1972      1973    1974-  1975
Volume (in thousand tons)
Rice and rice products      1,309      1,115       649      346     365      666       775        715      262     86      256
Pulses and beans              167         80        89       65      47       55        58         64       91     15       28
Animal feedstuff              178        111       130      100      94      109       123        180      112     33       95
Cotton                         15          6         5        2      --       --        --         --       --     --       --
Jute                            1          1         1        3       2        1         5         15       44     26       53
Rubbe                           7          7          4       6      14        6          9        12       10      1        5
Teak -                        140        135       100      110     130      112       124        120      119     67      145
Hardwood2                     1 3          1         5        1       1        1        15         19       50     28       14
Base metals and ores           31         32        23       18      20       13        15         16       17      6       18
Total                   1,851     17=        1,006      61-    7737    963T    1,124        1,061     705      22
Index (1965=100)          100         80        54       35      36       52        61         57       38      -       40
Value (in millions of U S$)
Rice and rice products        134.5      117.5       78.1    49.6    48.9    59.5       59.8       52.7    23.3   30.4    64.5
Pulses and beans               20.2       10.4      10.5      8.9     6.8      8.3        8.5       9.3    15.1    3.6       8.8
Animal feedstuff               10.7        7.7       8.1      5.5     5.6      6.5       7.9       10.3    12.9    4.2    10.1
Cotton                          7.6        3.6       2.6      0.9    --       --        --         --       --     --       -
Jute                            0.3        0.2       0.2      o.8     0.4      0.4       1.1        3.9      9.7    4.9      9.4
Rubber                          3.9        3.5       1.8      1.9     5.7      2.7        3.1       3.3      4.6    0.9      3.0
Teak                           30.6       34.0      26.6    32.2    33.2    23.6        28.7       26.4    38.6   26.4    43.2
Hardwood                        0,3        0.1       0.5      0.1     0.1      0.1       o.6        0.9      3.0    2.2      1.1
Base metals and ores           10.8        9.1       5.2      4.0     6.1      5.3        5.5       6.2      8.1    2.9    15.5
Other exports 4/               -0.3       18.7      18.9    10.6      7.0    13.9        4.9       13.2    27.2   -2.1    19.8
Total                     218.6     2004.8     1 1525   117.    113.7   120.3      120.       126.2   142.5   73.4   T7T17
Total at 1970 prices      201.7     182.4      126.2    86.o    88.8   120.3       129.7      142.3   126.2   40.0    60.1
Index (1965=100)          100        90         63       43      44       60        64         71       63     --      30
1/  Six months interim period October 1973 - March 1974.  Provisional.
2/  New fiscal year ending March.  Provisional.a
3/  Measured in cubic tons.                                                                                                         I
4/  Includes adjustment to exchange record basis.
Source:  Central Statistical Organization, Rangoon:  Selected Monthly Economic Indicators.
July 1976



TABLE 2
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Estimated Total Transport Volume
(In thousand tons)
1 974-75
Particulars              1 961-62  1971-72  1972-73  1973-74  (Provision-
al) *
Domestic output for transportation   31,099   42,.i73   42,1 70   44,459   46,527
Imports                               1,174       798      589      573      836
Total internal freight volume        32,273   43,171   42,755   45,032   47,363
Short haul                           19,701   25,771   25,200   27,400   28,121
Medium haul                           7,011    8,868    8,823    9.092    9,435
Long haul                             5,561    8,532    8,736    8,540    9,807
Transportation by state-owned
transport organizations             4,221    6,931    5,942    4,384    5,187
Transportation by other
organizations                      28,052   36,240   36,817   40,648   42,176
Total internal freight volume
32,273   43,171   42,755   45,032   47,303
* April to March
Source:  Ministry of Planning  and Finance (NDPF)
July 1 ,)76



TABLE 3
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Total Transport Work Undertaken by State-Owned Transport Agencies, 1961/62 - 1974/75
Particulars                   1 61 /62    1 971/72   1972/73    1973/74    1 974/75
(First six (Provi-
a months)    sonal)
------------_------- (Mousands) ---- ------------
Rail Transport
No. of passengers                43,078     53,389       55,o60      25,712     59,500
Passenger miles                 953,132  1,624,668   1,887,324    941,051  2,089,500
Freight ton                       2,938       2,925       2,486         854      2,034
-Freight ton-mile               457,549    483,705      387,828    129,066    345,780
Road Transport
No. of passengers (bus)            ---     297,618      201,566      92,337    190,123
Passenger miles (bus)              ---     728,996      645,40o    302,319    665,425
No. of passengers (taxi)           ---       4,673        6,326       3,312      6,406
Passenger miles (taxi)             ---      15,194       21,450      12,678     25,901
Freight ton                        ---        1,844       1,568         642      1,248
Freight ton-miles                  ---       80,784      85,511      32,771     67,100
Passenger cum cargo                ---        8,521      11,200       5,824      7,002
Passenger cum cargo mile           ---      33,667       44,912      25,334     34,030
Water Transport
Inland transport
No of passengers                  5,260      9,834        9,650       4,462      9,899
Passenger miles                 147,292    230,534      213,069    100,269    236,870
Freight ton                       1,283       2,162       1,888         801      1,905
Freight ton-mile                244,196    411,981      375,541    165,024    391,290
Oversea and coastal transport
No. of passengers                   13.0        28.5        26.5        11.6       23.0
Freight ton                          527        834        671         210        435
Air transport
Internal flight
No. of passengers                    34         50           55          30         50
Passenger miles                  16,589     29,661       34,834      19,091     32,191
Freight ton                         0.3         0.9         1.0         0.5         0.7
Freight ton-mile                    150         677         842         415         623
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOFF)
July 1976



BURMA
APPTUISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
BUXMA PORTS CORPORATION
Investment. Program 1976/77-1981/82
Total for
1976/77       1977/78        1978/79       1979/80        1980/81       1981/82       3r87Plan
Kyats (millions)
----------------3rd - 4 Year Plan--------------
T      F      T      F       T      F      T      F       T      F      T       F       T      F
Constructions                   2.4    0.3    0.9    0.2    1.1    0.2    1.0    0.3    1.0    0.2    1.0    0.2         4.1     0.9
Vessels                         2.8    2.2   19.5   13.2   14.1    9.0    0.3    0.3    0.5    0.?    0.7    0.3    15.6         9.8
Cargo Handling Equipment        1.4    1.1   15.9   10.7   23.6   16.1    6.9    4.8   1.0    0.5    1.0    0.5    32.5    21.9
Pontoons, Bridges & Jetties    0.5    0.3   14.6    8.6  11.9    3.7    2.5    0.6         -       -     1.5    0.3    15.9      4.6
Others                          1.8    1.1    1.5    1.8    2.0    1.0    1.5    0.5    1.5    0.5    1.3    0.3         6.3     2,3
Outports                                      0.8    0.4    o.8    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.5    0.2    0.5    0.2        203 .0
8.9    5.0   53.2   34.9  53.5   30.4  12.7    6.7    4.5    1.6    6.o    1.8    76.7    L 15
NOTES:  1.  The above figures have been prepared by IDA staff on the following bases:
(a) Starting from the base figures supplied by BPC
(b) Accommodating the "Project" figures within the years 1977/78 - 1979/80
(c) Allowing for commodities and services tax - in the local currency content -
calculated at 35% of the foreign exebnnge element
(d) Controlling total expenditure in the 3rd 4-Year Plan to a total of
Kyats 76.67 million, a figure unich has been agreed by MOTM
Source: BPC and IDA Staff
T = Total Cost
F = F/Ex Cost
July 1976



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Projett Cost Estimte
KO'                              uS$'OOO                   % of
ITEM                                                 Local   Foresgn        Total      Local   Foreign        Total        Total
A.  VESSELS, NAVAIDS, rECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.  Overhaul of Dredger I,N.Y.
(+ 2 vear holding of Spares)                       714      6,800      7.514         105      1,000       1,105
2.  Training of Crew (Incl. T/A)                        238        442        680          35         65         100
3.  T.N.I. D-cioentatioo and Inspection                  34        102         136          '         15          20
4,  Repairs to and Spares for Dredger KgK.Y,
and Crab Dredgers                                850      3.604      4,454         125         530        655
5.  Repa-ls to Ser-ey Vessel                            102        272        374          15         40          55
6.  Repairs to Boov Vessel                              238        816      1,054          35        120         155
_,  Repair of Pilot Veusel                             170         680        850          25        100         125
8.  Position Finders                                   408       2,040      2,4a8          60        300         36(1
9.  Nanigational Aids                                  JIJ2      2,992      3,64)4         90        440         530
Sub-Total            3.36t      17,748     21.114         495      2.610      3,105         19.2
8.  CARGO HANDLINC EQLIPMENT (INCL. SPARES)
1.  Spares for existing  Forklift Tr-cks
(30 outsi                                         12         680         782         15         100        115
2.  Spares for Mobil- Cranes (9 units                  238         816      1,054          35        120         155
I.  Spares for Tractors (30 unit                       20w        204         408         30          3'         60
,  Workshop Machincrv and Cools                      1,360      2,856      4,216         200         420        620
5.  New Mebiie Cranes- IU ton
(le1. Sparesi. 10   vnits                          612      6,460      7,072          90        9 0       1,040
6.  Heavy (25-Ton) 'Iohi 1.-  ran. (+ Spares)           204      2.210      2,414          30        32i          55
7.  New F.rkl. ii 7r-cis    c L  pares-
3000 K(i. x 20 ants                              340      2,176      2,516          'O        320         370
4000 MC. x 12    '                               238      1,768      2,006          3S        2cc'        295
5001J  C . u  3   "                               34        578        612           5         85          90
6000 KG. x  3                                     68        680         748         10        100         110
15000 KG. s  3   e                                170      1,224      1,394          25        180         205
8.  Dump Tr-cks, 10 neits                               170      1,496      1.666          25        220         245
N-w Tractors, 20 units t, uparesi
238      1,700      I.-38          35        250         285
17.   caA,,r-  5-Too. 60 units                          170       1,248      1.428          25        185        210
11.  L- loaders.  2 x 20-Too anita                       68         544        612          10         80         90
I_.  Oneunat.  cro-c Loaders, 5 units                   442       1.700      2,142          65        250        315
Sub-Total            4,658      26,350     31,008         685      3,875      4,560         28.2
C.  ONTOONS. BRIDGES, ETt.
1. Pontoons and A:-cillaries
2 units (2140 x 40 ft,)                       4,080       4,080      8,160         600        600      1,200
8  sits (12' a 20 rt.)                        4,624       4,624      9,248         880        680      1,360
-.  Bridge.s                                           408        408         816         60          60        120
3.  Plant. Maci.iier- and Ancillary Eqnip-est   1,088          1,.700       2,788        160         250        410
Sob-Total           10,200      10,812     21,012       1,500      1,590      3,090         19.1
RAIWING                       Su1b-Total              -         1,'34      1,734         -          2i3        255          1.6
SUB-IoTAL (A+H+C+DJ             18,224     i6,644     74,868       2,68(1     8.330)    11,01')
PHYSICAL CO.TINGENCIES
; i on FE for Vessel and Equipnent Repairs
and Renta-ents               Sub-Total               952      3,645       4,597       I1c          536        676          4.2
COST CONTiNCCNCIES
86 per as.. ti tor YTears 1977/78 through
1979/8')                                           2,720      7.684    10,404          400      1,130       1,i30         9.5
SOC-TOTAL (A THRU F)             21,896    67,973    89.869         3,220      9,996      13.216
G.  COMMODITiES AND SERVICES TAX                         19,992       -        19.992       2,940       -          2,940        18.2
TOTAL PR(JECT COST              41_888    67,973    109,561         6.160      9,996      16,156        100.0
Sour-e:  BP' and Bank Staff
Jilv' 1976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Actual (1971/72-1975/76) and Forecast (1976/77-1991/92)
Exports and Imports, Thousand Tons
Port of Rangoon
Grow.th Rate
7. p.a.
A c t u a I s                                                    F o r e c a s t                                         P r o   e c t i o n   197 5/76
Commodity                    1971/72     1972/73      1973/74.1' 1974/75       1975/76      1976/77     1977/78    1978/79   1979/80        1980/81      1981/82   1986/87       1991792   1981/82
EXPORTS
Rice and Rice Products            748         309            92         256         501           500         505         530         560         585         615         740          900        3.5
Timber                            143         289            38         159         168           205         220         235        250          260         275         360          450        8.5
Minerals and Ores                  17           22            6          18           12           20          25           30         30          35           35         5
Pulses and Vegetable Oil   )                                                         85           166         170         175         180         185         19          21           245
Jute                          )                                                      25            71          76           75        80           83          87         100          100
Other Agricultural Products)   348            346           115         312          15            20          20          21          21          21          21          25           30
General Cargo                 )   _            _                                      26           33          34           34         34          36          37          50           65
Sub-total                  1,256          965          311          745         832        1,015       1,050        1,100      1,155       1,205        1,260      1,540        1 ,65         7.2
Petroleum, Oil and
Lubricants (POL)                - 2/         -            _                      - 2/            50        50 2/         50         50           50          50         150 3,       150
Total Exports               1,256         965          311          745         832        1,065         .          1,150      1205        1,255        1310       1             2.015        7-9
IMPORTS
General Cargo                     362         349           128         444         440           450         465         490         515         545         575         710          850        4.6
Coal                              151         142           158         173         130           150         150         150         150         150         150         100          100
Sub-total                     513         491           19          617         570          600         615          640        665         695          725        810           950        4.1
PiOL                              285          98           178         290          44           150         150         150        150          150         150         150          150
Total Imports                 798         589          448          907         614          750          765         790        815         845          875        960         1,100        6.1
Grand Total (Ex.+ Im.)   2,054        L555             448       1652                      1. 815           A                 L            2 1          2,18       2 60         3,117.1
1/  Financial year changed; statistics for 1973/74 only for six-month per;od--October 1, 1973 to March 31, 1974
2/ Derivatives like naphtha and paraffin wax included under general cargo 1971/72-1975/76.
3/  New oil refinery becomes operational in   1982/83 (10 million tons a year)
Source: BPC and Mission Estimates
July 1976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Total Number of Days on which Ships at Indicated Draft Could Not Enter or Leave Rangoon
Days of Year
Draft   Jan.  Feb.   March   April   May   June   July   August   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.    No.             %
20     --    --      --        --     -                                                                 0      0.0
21      2     2       2        --     --      --     --       --      -                       --        6      1.6
22      4     5       5        --     --      --     --       --      __--                    --      121      3.8
23     10     7       8         4     --      --     -_       __      --        1       2      4       36        .8
24     12     9      11         7     --      --     --       --       2        3      5       8       57     15.6
25     16    13      15       12       6      --      1        3       7        6       9     14      102     27.9
26     13    16      17       15      14       4      4        6       9       10     14      19      147     40.2
27     27    20      22       19      20     18       9       10      10       13     19      24      211     57.8
28     30    28      27       26      25     24      16       13      14       19     26      28      276     75.6
Source: Burma Ports Corporation (BPC)
July 1 976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Project Cost and Benefits
Pro.iect Cost, US$ million                   Project Benefits, US$ Million-                       Net ProJect
Annual Channel        Reduced Ship   Reduced          Reduced Cargo   Total         Cost (-)
Year                  Maintenance           Waiting Costs  Shipping Costs  Handling Costs  Cost            and
Investment 1/  Cost                                                                   Reductions  Benefit (+)
1 976/77
1577/78  6.60                                                                                             -6.60
1978/79  5.20                                  0.1 5          1.33             1.31             2.79      -2.41
1 979/80  1.20           0.67                  0.30           4.48             1.37             6.15      +4.28
1980/81                  0.67                  0.45           5.16             1.42             7.03      +6.36
1581/82                  0.67                  0.58           5.86             1 .56            8.00      +7.33
1982/83                  1.25 2/               0.55           6.77             1.60             8.91      +7.67
1983/84                  0.67                  0.50           7.09             1.65             9.24      +8.57
1584/85                  0.67                  0.45           7.43             1.70             9.58      +f-8.91
1985/86                  0.67                  o.40           7.78             1.75             9.93      +9.26
1586/87                  1,252/                0.38           8.24             1.81            10.43      +9.18
1987/88                  0.67                  0.40           8.56             1.87            10.83     +10.16
1988/89                  0.67                  0.42           8.81             1 .93           11 .16    +1o0.49
1989/90                  0.67                  0.44           9.13             1 .99           11.56     +10.89
1 990/91                 0.67                   0.44          9.56             2.05            12.05     +11 .38
1991/92                  1.25-                 0.146          9.74             2.11            12.31     +111.06
0.67                  0.46          9.74              2.11           12.31      +11 .65
1998/99                  1.25 2/               0.46           9.74             2.11            12.31     +11.06
1/  Net of commodities and services tax  but including contingencies of 20%; calculated to be incurred at
the beginning of the year.
2/ Overhaul of dredger at cost of US$0.58 million each fourth year.
3/  Calculated to be obtained at the end of each year,
Results of Return Calculations
(1) Economic Rate of Return equals 37%
(2) Economic Rate of Return about 25% if cost
increased by 20% and benefits reduced by 20%. The result is not sensitive to any realistizally
toreseeatle changes in basic para-meters.
July 1976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Shipping Costs With Project
Northern Europe (incl  others)                                   Japan/Far East                                      India/South East Asia                   Total
Traffic  Share       10 000 dwt      15.00o dvt          Traffic  Share       10 000 dvt      15 000 dwt             Traffic        Cost per    Total Coat           Shipping
Volume   of                                              Volume   of                                                '00a Tona        Ton US$    US$ Million         Cost
'000     Traffic  Cost  Total    Cost  Total             '000      Traffic  Cost  Total    Cost  Total                                                              US$
Tons     by        per   Cost       per   Cost           Tons      by        per   Cost      per   Cost                                                             Million
10 000   Ton   UJS$       Ton   US$                      10,000   Ton   US$        Ton   US$            General         General         General POL
dwt  %   US$   Million  US$   Million                    dwt  %   US$   Million  US$   Million          Cargo    PO  Cargo    POL  Cargo
1976/77          430       100      61.55  26.47                          395        100     45.60  18 00                          790       200  28.90   10.70  22.83  2.14          69.44
77/78          445       100      61.55  27.39                          410       100      45.60  18 70                          825            28.90   10.70  23.84  2.14          72.07
78'79          461        80      59.10  21.80  54.80   5.05            425        90      44-15  18 76   42.60   1.81           865            27.45    8.70  23.74  1.74          72.90
79180          478        60      59.10  16.95           10.48          440        80              15 54            3.75        910                              24.98              73.44
80/81          496        40      59.10  11.73           16.31          455        70              14 06            5.81         955                             26.21              75.86
81'82          515        20      59.10   6.05           22.58          470        60              12 45            8.00        1000       200                   27.45  1.74        78.31
82'83          535         0                             29.32          487        50              10 75           10.37       1.025       300                   28.14  2.61        81.19
83/84          557                                       30.52          506        40               8 94           12.93        l055                             28.96              83.96
84/85          581                                       31.84          527        30               6 98           15.72        1085                             29.78              86.93
85/86          605                                       33.15          550        20      44.15   4 86            18.74        1115                             30.61              89.97
86'87          630                                       34.52          575         0                              24.50        1145                             31.45              93.06
87'88          655                                       35.89          598                                        25.47        1180                             32.39              96.36
88/89          680                                       37.26          623                                        26.54        1215                             33.35              99.76
89/90          705                                       38-63          650                                        27.69        1250                             34.31             103.24
90/91          730                                       40.00          678                                         28.88       1290                             35.41             106.90
91'92          755                                       41.37          705                                         30.03       1325                             36.37             110.38
-           755                                      41.37           705                                        30.03       1325                              36.37            110.38
98/99          755         0                     54.80  41.37           705          0                      42.60  30.03        1325       300  27.45    8 70  36.37   2,61    110.38
1) Channel deepened to 15 ft belov Datum and improved cargo handling introduced
Source: Bank Staff
July 7976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Shipping Costs Without Project
Northern Europe (incl. others)                           Japan/Far East                                       India/South East Asia                             Total
Shipping
Traffic Volume  Cost Per  Total Cost           Traffic Volume   Cost Per  Total Cost            Traffic '000 Tons  Cost Per Ton US$  Total, US$ Million             Cost
Year        '000 Tons        Ton US$   US$ Million         '000 Tons          Ton  US$  US$ Million         Gen.Cargo  POL       Gen.Cargo  POL       Gen. Cargo   POL          US$ Million
1976/77          430              61.55       26.47           395                45.60      18.00              790        200       28.90      10.70    22.83          2.14         69.44
77/78          445                          27.39           410                           18.70              825                                       23.84                      72.07
78/79          461                          28.37           425                           19.38              865                                       25.00                      74.89
79/80          478                          29.42           440                           20.06              910                                       26.30                      77.92
80/81          496                          30.53           455                           20.75              955                                       27.60                      81.02
81/82          515                          31.70           470                           21.43             1000        200                            28.90          2.14        84.17
82/83.         535                          32.93           487                           22.20             1025        300                            29.62          3.21        87.96
83/84          557                          34.28           506                           23.07             1055                                       30.49                      91.05
84/85          581                          35.76           527                           24.03             1085                                       31.36                      94.36
85/86          605                          37.24           550                           25.08             1115                                       32.22                      97.75
86/87          630                          38.78           575                           26.22             1145                                       33.09                     101.30
87/88          655                          40.32           598                           27.29             1180                                       34.10                     104.92
88/89          680                          41.85           623                           28.40             1215                                       35.11                     108.57
89/90          705                          43.40           650                           29.64             1250                                       36.12                     112.37
90/91          730                          44.93           678                           30.92             1290                                       37.28                     116.34
91/92          755                          46.47           705                           32.15             1325                                       38.29                     120.12
-            755                         46.47            705                           32.12             1325                                       38.29                     120.12
98/99          755             61.55        46.47           705                45.60      32.15             1325        300       28.90      10.70    38.29           3.21       120.12
So,orce Bank Staff
July 1976
0



TABLE 11
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS: PROJECT
BURM4A PORTS CORPORATIa(
Revenue and Expenditure Accounts for the Years 1971/72-1975/76
1971/72     1972/73     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76
(6 months)
(Kyats (millions)
Operating Revenue
Traffic Revenue                     34.5         27.3        10.3        28.8       30.2
Demurrage                           16.h         10.1         5.2        11.3       13.9
Other Income                         7.3          8.5         4.o        10.5        9.8
Total Revenue                    58.2         45.9        19.5        50.6       53.9
Operating Expenses
Labor Costs                        14.7          15.8         7.4        15.4       15.4
Maintenance and Repairs              4.6          5.o         2.3         5.0        6.4
Other expenses                       3.1          2.8         1.5         4.1        5.3
Depreciation                         9.0          8.7         4.4         8.1        8.0
31.4         32.3        15.6        32.6       35.1
Administration Expenses              7.2          7.0         3.5         7.2        7.7
Financial Expensesl/                1.5           1.5         0.6         1.0       (0.5)
Totl Expenses                  401          40.8        19.7        40.8       42.3
Met Surnlus                            18.1          5.1        (0-.2)      T          11.
Ope rating Ratio                       66.3         M5.6         97.9       7M.6      79.4
Tonnage Handled (International and
Coastal)                                      Tons ( )
Exports                         11429         1126          380          887        970
Imports                            885          672         215          987        680
Total Tonnage                 2314        1798          595         1874       1650
Charges on Goods, per ton handled
(Seaborne) Kyats                  7.21        6.44         7.16         7.21       L91
Daes on Vessels, per gross ton
Kyats                  1.52         1.68        1.49         1.71       1.87
Nbte: 1/ Loan Interest plus or minus gain or loss on exchange for total debt service.
Source: Burma Ports Corporation
July 1976



TABLE 12
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECND PORTS PROJECT
BU1MA PORTS CORPORATION
Balance Sheet at Maroh 31, 1076
Current Assets less Current Liabilities                     1976                               1975
Stores and Work in Progress                          15.5                            11.7
Receivables less Provisiox  for Bad Debts             5.8                             7.8
Cash on hand                                          0.3                             0.3
21.6               ______19.8
Less Security Deposits                                    10.2                             10.2
Creditors                                             h.5                             5.6
Miscellaneous Credit Balances                       16.6                              3.5
31.3                            19.3
Excess of Current Liabilities over
Current Assets                                              (9.7)                            (0,5)
Fixed Assets
At cost less depreciation to date                             125.1                            129.8
Investments
0.3                             0.3
Total Net Assets                                              115.7                            129.8
Financed By
Proprietary Interest of Government ("Equity")                 102.5                            111.0
Foreign Loans (IBRD)                                            2.8                              8.14
Outstanding Debentures                                          8.0                              8.0
Aid from UNDP                                                   2.4                              2.4
Total Capital Employed                                  115.7                            129.9
Note: 1.    The above figures were supplied by BPC but the form of presentation has been
changed, to show the overall interest of the Government in one figure (1976 Kyats 102.5 million)
The amount shown represents accumulated surpluses, capital found by Government, cash made
available by Government to repay foreign loans and lesa amounts paid in to the Union Government
Consolidated Fund.
2.    The reason for the "negative working capital" is because up to March 1976 all cash generated
by BPC was paid in to the UGCF - none was allowed to be retained. The situation will change
in the future.
Source: BPC and IDA Staff
July 1976



BURMA                                   TABLE 13
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Burma Ports Corporation
Forecast Revenue and Expenditure Accounts for the Years 1976/77-1981/82
 _______________-------Forecast--------------------------
Base Year
1975/76    1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Revenue
Traffic Revenue                 30.2        37.4      38.5       39.6      40.8       42.1      43.3
Demurrage                       13.9        10.7       9.7        8.7        7.8       6.8        5.9
Other Income                     9.8        10.8      10.8       10.8      11.0       11.2      11.5
Effect of Tariff Increases    -            -         5.9       12.4      16.1       20.0      20.2
TOTAL REVENUE               53.9        58.9      64.9       71.5      75.7       80.1      80.9
Expenditure
Labor Costs                    15.4        18.0      19.3       19.9      20.5       21.1      21.7
Maintenance and Repairs          6.4         6.4       6.5        7.3        8.2       9.0        9.4
Other Expenses                   5.3         5.1       5.3        5.3       5.3        5.3       5.3
Depreciation                     8.0         8.7      11.7       16.7      19.7       21.7      22.7
35.1       38.2       42.8      49.2       53.7      57.1       59.1
Administration Expenses          7.7         9.3       9.4        9.5       9.6        9.7        9.8
Financial Expenses              (0.5)        -         1.2        4.3       5.8        5.9       5.4
TOTAL EXPENSES              42.3       47.5       53.4       63.0      69.1       72.7      74.3
Net Surplus                       11.6        11.4      11.5        8.5       6.6        7.4       6.6
Operating Ratio              %    79.4        8Q.6      80.4       82.1      83.6       83.3      85.2
Operating Surplus
(before Interest) Kyats (million)            11.4       12.7      12.8       12.4       13.3      12.0
Average Net Fixed Assets
Kyats (million)           125.2     146.0      190.2     200.1      188.0     172.0
Return m Net Fixed Assets  %                   9.1       8.7        6.7       6.2        7.1       7.0
Source:  BPC and IDA Staff
October 1976



Notes on Table 13
BURIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOMLi PORTS PROJECT
Burma Ports Corporation
Assumptions made in preparing Revenue and Expenditure Forecasts
1.        The basic revenue figures were supplied by BPC on the basis of
existing tariffs. The figures for 1976/77 are the budget figures which
appear to be very conservative in relation to the expected volume of
traffic for 1976/77. Thereafter the operating revenue estimates antici-
pate an annual growth of 3% per annum which corresponds to the average
annual growth in the volume of traffic. Considering the low level esti-
mate for the base year 1976/77, the forecasts are considered very conser-
vative and this method has been deliberately adopted in order to calculate
what would be the maximum tariff increases required to preserve a finan-
cially viable situation.
2.        Demurrage revenue has been reduced gradually to what BPC say
should be a normal figure in 1981/82. In practice it is doubtful whether
this source of revenue will fall steadily. Other income has been in-
cluded as assessed by BPC.
3.        The expenditure estimates take account of a cost of living in-
crease to staff which became effective from June 1976. The estimated
additional cost in a full year is Kyats 4.8 million. As a result of
these cost increases stevedoring and direct labour charges were also
increased.
4.        Because of the size of the proposed investment program, BPC's
charge for depreciation will go up and they will have to service additional
debt. In addition a 3% annual increase in labour costs (no increase in
the labour force) has been assumed. From 1978/79 annual increase of about
10% in maintenance and repair costs has been assumed because of the need to
overtake arrears.
5.        Depreciation on new investment has been provided at BPC rates:
vessels 7%; cargo handling equipment 15%; pontoons, bridges, etc. 10%; a
small adjustment has been allowed on existing equipment which will become
fully depreciated during the period.
6.        Interest payable by BPC to the Government on the proceeds of the
IDA Credit has been calculated at 9% per annum and a 3-year grace period
has been assumed with repayments spread over twelve years starting from
1980/81.



-2-
7.        After making the above assumptions it became clear that some
tariff increases will be required. These have been calculated with the
objective of assuring that BPC will be able, after meeting all cash
operating expenses, to pay its debt service and find a sum of about
Kyats 25.0 million a year for essential replacements of its capital
equipment. No provision has been made for any return which may be
payable to Government on its investment and no provision has been made
for bonuses which may be payable to staff. On these minimal assumptions
the required tariff increases (on total revenue) work out at:
1977/78                           10%
1978/79                a further 10%
1979/80                a further  5%
1980/81                a further  5%
Because of the conservative revenue estimate (see note 1) it is likely
that if traffic develops as expected, there would need to be only two
tariff increases of about 10% each during the three year period 1979/80-
1981/82 and these increases would apply only to operating revenue and
demurrage.
8.        The financial forecasts did not make provision for the earning
of any specific return on net fixed assets. The objective was to earn
sufficient funds for requirements as outlined in para 6 and the net
result is to produce a cash balance in 1981/82 of Kyats 65.0 million
compared with Kyats 9.8 million at end FY 1977. It is essential to allow
for some surplus cash to cover bonuses, return to Government, contingencies
and for redemption of debentures in 1984 (Kyats 4.5 million).
9.        The tariff increases were calculated as follows:
77/78    78/79   79/80   80/81   81/82
Original Revenue Estimate           59.0      59.1    59.6    60.1    60.7
10% Increase in 77/78                5.9       5.9      6.0     6.0      6.1
64.9     65.0    65.6    66.1    66.8
10% Increase in 78/79                          6.5      6.5     6.6      6.7
71.5    72.1    72.7    73.5
5% Increase in 79/80                                    3.6     3.6      3.7
75.7    76.3    77.2
5% Increase in 80/81                                            3.8      3.7
Adjusted Total Revenue              64.9      71.5    75.7    80.1    80.9
Effect of Tariff Increase            5.9      12.4    16.1    20.0    20.2



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORIS PROJECT
BURMA PORTS CORPORATICN
Source and Disposition of Funds Forecast 1976-1982
Year ending March 31:                   1977        1978        1979         1980        1981       1982
Kyats (millions)
Source of Funds
Operating Surplus                         ll.h        12.7        12.8         12.h        13.3       12.0
Depreciaticn                               8.7        11.7         16.7        19.7        21.7        22.7
20.1       2b.1i        29.5        32.1        35.0        34.7
Less Required for:
Debt Service                          2.8         1.2          4.3         5.8       11.6        11.1
Debenture Redemption                   -           -          3.5           -
BPC Net Cash Generation                    17.3       23.2         21.7        26.3        23.4        23.6
Proceeds of IDA Credit ($10 million)                  34.0         27.2         6.8
57.2        48.9         33.1       23.4        23.6
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditure                         8.9       53.2         53.5        12.7         h.5         6.0
Increase/(Decrease) in Cash                 8.L        4.0         (4.6)        20.4       18.9        17.6
1976
Cumulative Cash Balance      17             8.7       12.7          8.1         28.5       47.-        65.0
Note:  The cash accumulations appear excessive but in practice provision
will need to be made for (a) contribution to Government and (b)
bonuses to workers.  The basis on which such payments will be made
is not known at present but BPC'8 earnings should
be sufficient to meet such additional commitments.
Source: IDA Staff
July 1976



TABKE 15
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
BUSMA PORTS CORPORATION
Forecast Balance Sheets 1977-1982
1977     1978      1979     1980      1981     1982
Current Assets less Current Liabilities
Stores and Work in Progress                    17.1     17.1      17.1     17.1      17.1     17.1
Receivables less Provision for
Bad Debts                                     4.2      h.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2
Cash on hand                                    8.7      1P.7      A4 1     s. C4 4
30.0     34.o      29.4     49.8     68.?      8A,?
Less Security Deposits               )
Creditors                     )
Miscellaneous Credit Balances)                31.3     31.3      31.3     31.3      31.3     31.3
Excess/(Deficiency) of Current Assets                ( 38.5                                37.4     ss.o
over Liabilities                                (*3)      2.7      1.9               3
Fixed Assets
At Cost less Depreciation to date            125.3    166.t    2tU.6    190.6    179.4    16c.7
Investments                                           0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3
Total Net Assets                             124.3    169.8    202.0    215.4    217.1    218.0
Financed By
Proprietary Interest of Government (Equity)   102.5    102.5    102.5    102.5    102.5    102.5
Accumulated Surplus                              11.h      22.9     31.4     38.0      45.4     52.0
Foreign Loans IBRD
Proceeds of New IDA Credit         _        34.0     61.2      68.0     62.3      56.6
Outstanding Debentures                            8.0      8.0       4.5      4.5       4.5      4.5
Aid from UNDP                                     2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4
Total Capital Employed                      124.3    169.8    202.0    215.4    217.1    218.0
Source: IDA Staff
July 1976



TABLE i6
BUBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Transportation Network
1939      1961      1966       1971      1975
Railway Track (miles)
Double Line                            75        95        177       254
Single Line                         1,825     1,828       ,770     1,695
Total Route Miles      2,059      1,900     1,923     1,947      1,949
Road (miles)
Union Highways           n.a.       2,284     2,452      2,452     2,452
Main Roads               n.a.       4.629     5,065      5,813    11 429
Sub-Total             n.a.      6,913      7,517     8,265     1
2/
State Roads              n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      5,180        -
District Roads           n.a.       n.a.      n.a.       23845     2,845
1/
Grand Total           nOa.       6,913     7,517    16,290    16,726
Navigable River (miles)
High Water               5,000      5,000     5,000     5,000      5,000
Low Water                3,700      3,700     3,700      3,700     3,700
Main Ports                              4         4          4         4
Airfields
International                           1         1          1         1
Domestic                               38        42         42        42
1/  In addition, there are estimated to be over 10,000 miles of dry weather
farm roads.
2/  Reclassified as Main Roads.
Source: Transport corporations.
July 1976



TABLE 17
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Inventory o' Transport Facilities
(Nwubers)
1 974-75
Item                        1 961-62         1 973-74       (Provisonal )*
State   Private  State   Private  State   Private
Diesel locomotives             0         --      1440     --         164   --
Steam locomotives            282         --      220      --         217   --
Diesel rail cars              14        __        23       -_         23   --
Wagons                     9,050         __    9,277       __      9,296   --
Carriages                  1,015        --    1 ,198      --       1,205   --
Stations                     375        __       317      __         347   __
Track mile                 2,370        --    2,687       --       2,688   --
Haulage truck                --       15,394  2,554    14,110    2,593  16,475
Passenger buses              --        7,993  1 ,704     4,970    1 ,791   5,462
Passenger cum cargo
(Powered vessels)        159)        1,558    156)    2,200       154)  1,124
Cargo barges (Powered          )                    )                   )
vessels)                   9)                  29)                 39)
Tug and cargo boats           38       --         57       --         55   --
Barges                       214        __       236       __        234   __
Oil barges (Dumb)             6)4      --        117       --        117   --
Station pontoons              86       --        119       --        110   --
Tugs (IWTC)                   62       --         73       --         70   --
Ocean liner                    3       --         10       --         10   --
Coastal vessels                2         165       4       242         5     248
Dakota                         8       --          6       --          6   --
Fokker Friendship             --       --          6       --          6   --
Viscount                       3       --          2       --          2   --
Boeing 707                    --       --          1       --          1   --
Airfields                     39       --         43       --         43   --
Buoys                         31       __         56       __         56--
Seagoing wharves              10       __         15       --         15   --
Pontoon jetty                 63       --        101       --        101   --
Storage godowns              288       --        284       --        284   --
Cranes                        14       --         24       --         22   --
'1obile cranes                60       --         31       --         31   __
Forklift trucks               --       --        126       --         56   --
Vessels                        8       --          9       -_          9   __
Harbor launches               29       __         32       __         36   __
Tugs (Port)                    9       __         14       __        14   --
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance (MOPF)
July 1 976



BURMA
APPRAISAL CF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Forecast Traffic By Main Public Transport Agencies 1/
1939    1965    1965    1970    1971    1972    1973            1974     1975
(6 months)
Tons Loaded ('000)
Railways (BRC               4,000   3,297   2,940   2, 685  2,819   2,925   2,486             854     2,034
Inland Water Transport
(IWTC)                 1 ,200   1.,795   1,809   1 ,762   2,014   2,163   1,888         801      1,305
Road Transport (RTC)           -       841   2,376   2,o54   1,935   1,845   1,568            642     1,248
Total               5,200   5,933   7,135   6,501   6,768   6,933   5,924          2,297      5,187
Ton Miles ('000,000)
Railways (BRC)                708      544     512     461     501      484     388           129       346
Inland Water Transport
(IWTC)                   225     299     343      334     397     44o      376          165        3d
Road Transport(RTC)            -         7      58      72       62      80      86            33        67
Total                 933     850      913     86?     960   1 ,004     850           327       834
1/ Excluding Burma Airways, Five Star Shipping Corporation and Ports
Source: Transport Corporation
July 1976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Development of Burma's Uverseas and Coastal Shipping Traffic
1961/62 - 1974/75
(In thousand tons)
Rangoon Port                            Out ports                                  Total
Year            E:xport              Import            Export            Import                Eport               Inport
Coastal Overseas   Coastal Overseas   Coastal Overseas   Coastal Overseas   Coastal Overseas   Coastal Overseas
1 961-62     176    2224          121    1175         --     --           --      __          176    2224          121   1175
1 970-71     165    1017           96     954         1 90    146         202    --           355    1163          298    954
1971-72      173    1256           87     798         130    166          218    --           303    1422          303    758
1972-73      160      966          83    '589         117     58          177    --           277    1024          269    589
1973-74      130      779          76     573         117     91          151    --           247      870         227    573
1 973-74
(Six months)    70      310         37      178          57     35           83    -_           127      345         120    178
1 974-75
(Provisional)   163    1087           94     836         130     70          1 70    --          293    1157          264    5B9
July 1 976



BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORrS PROJECT
Forecast Destination of Exports and Origin of Imports, Thousand Tons
(1 976/77 - 1 991192)
DestinatVor. of 'yportz, Origin of Imports, Thousand Tons
Lommodi t.y    Year      N-rthe:. wurope           Japan/Far East       India/S.E. Asia      Others    Total
Group
Exports
Dry Cargo     1976/77         200                       215                  590                10      1,015
1981/82        230                        240                 775                15      1,260
1986/87        290                        300                 930                20       1 ,50
19191/92       350                        370               1,120                25       1,865
POL           1976/77         --                        --                    50                           50
1981 /82                                                       50                            50
1986/87        --                         --                  150                --         1 50
1991/92        --                                             150                           150
Import.s
Dr-, Cargo    1 C I'6/77                                180                  200                 55        600
1961/82        210                        230                 225                 60        725
1 98}/87      255                        275                 215                 65        810
1991/92        310                        335                 205                 70        550
POL           1976/77         --                        --                   150                --        150
1981/82        --                         --                  150                           150
1986/87        --                         -                   150                 -         1 50
1991/92        --                                             150                --         150
Total Exports/1976/77         365                        395                 990                 65     1,815
Imports     1 '81 //?       440                       470               1,250                  ?5     2,185
1 96/87        545                        575               1,445                 85      2,650
1991/92        660                        705               1,625                 95      3,115
Source:  BPC and Mission Staff
July 1 976



TABLE 21
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Minimum Irnvestments Required to Yaintain Rangoon Port
in its Present Condition up to Year 1980/81 ("Status Quo" Case)
US$ million Equivalent
Local   Foreign    Total
1. Overhaul of TNY Dredger                      0.05      0.40       0.45
2. Repair of Other Dredgers                     0.12      0.53      o.65
3. Repair of Survey, Pilot and Buov Vessels   0.08        0.26       0.34
4. Position Finders, Nav. Aids                  0.10      0.40      0.50
5. Training/T.A.                                0.04      0.32      0.36
6.  Spares for Ex. Cargo Handling Equipment    0.08       0.25      0.33
7.  Cargo Handling E;quipment                   0.20      1.60      1.80
8. Machinery, Tools, etc.                       0.30      0.50      0.80
9. Pontoons, Bridges, etc.                      0.80      0.70      1.50
TOTAL                                   1.77      4.96      6.73
Contingencies (20%)                    0.35       1.99      2.34
2.12      6.95      9.07
Coimnodities & Services Tax             2.44                2.44
GRAND TOTAL                            4.56       6.95     11.51
Source: Mission Estimate
August 1976



TABLE 22
BURMA
APPRAISAL CF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Project Costs and Benefits Maintaining the Present Conditions
("Status Quo" Case)
Projected Cost      Project Benefits, US$ Ivillion /
US$ Million     Avoided               Avoided
Increase            Increases
Year                           in Ship  Reduced   in Cargo             Net Project
Invest-  Maintenance Waiting  Shipping  Handling    Total  Cost(-) and
ment /   Dredging    Times    Costs        Costs   Benefits Benefits(+)
1976/77
1977/78      5.20                                                           -5.20
1978/79      3.80                                                           -3.80
1979/80                 0.25      0.66       0.0       1.01       1.67      +1.42
1980/81                 0.25      0.70                 1.05       1.75      +1.50
1981/82                 0.25      0.72                 1.09       1.81      +1.56
1982/83                 0.7O-/    0.75                 1.13       1.88      +1.18
1983/84                 0.25      0.77                 1.18       1.95      +1.70
1584/85                 0.25      0.80                 1.23       2.03      +1.78
1985/86                 0.25      0.82                 1.28       2.10      +1.85
1986/87                 0.703/    0.85                 1.32       2.17      +1.47
1987/88                 0.25      o.89                 1.37       2.26      +2.01
1t88/89                 0.25      0.92                 1.42       2.34      +2.09
1989/50                 0.25      0.96                 1.46       2.42      +2.17
1'Y90/91                0.703/    1.00                 1.51       2.51      +1.81
1951/92                 0.25      1.04                 1.56       2.60      +2.35
0.25      1.04                 1.56       2.60      +2.35
199L/99                 0.703/    1.04       O.        1.56       2.60      +1.90
1/ Frum Table 21
2/ Ct. 'pared with cos..s in the "WiLthout" project case (Table 10)
3/ Ova-haul of dredger at a cost of US$ 1.45 million each fourth year
Economic Rate of Return = about 12%12
Source: Mission Staff
AUgust 1976



TABLE 23
BURMA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND PORTS PROJECT
Project Cost and Benefits on Incremental Investment
(Difference between "Status Quo" case and Full Project Investment)
Projected Cost        Project Benefits, US$ Million,
US$ Million      Avoided                Avoided
Increase              Increases
Year                Mainten- in Ship    Reduced   in Cargo               Net Project
Invest-     ance   Waiting    Shipping  Handling   Total    Cost(-) and
ment     Dredging  Times        Costs      Costs   Benefits  Benefits(+)
1976/77
1977/78      1.40                                                            -1.40
1978/79      l.XO                                                            -1.4o
1979/80      1.2C       0.42     -0.36       2.24       0.36      2.24       +0.60
1980/81                 0.42     -0.25       2.58       0.37      2.70       +2.28
1981/82                 0.42     -0.27       2.93       0.47      3.13       +2.71
1982/83                 0.70     -0.20       3.38      0.47       3.65       +2.95
1963/8b                 0.42     -C.27       3.54       0.47      3.74       +3.32
1984/85                 0.42     -C.35       3.72       0.47      3.84       +3.42
1985/86                 0.42     -0.42       3.89       0.47      3.94       +3.52
1986/87                 0.70     -0.47       4.12       0.49      4.14       +3.44
1987/86                 0.42     -0.49       4.28       0.50      4.29       +3.87
1988/89                 C.L2     -0.50       4.40       0.51      4.41       +3.99
1989/0                 0.42     -0.52       4.56      0.53       4.57       +4.15
Source: Mission Staff
August 1976



BURMA PORTS CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MANAGING DIRECTOR
GENERAL MANAGER
TRAFFIC       MARINE       MECHANICAL       CIVIL             ACCTS.        STORES       PESNL
ENGINEERING ENIERNPRSNL
DEPT.         DEPT.          DEPT.         DEPT.             DEPT.          DEPT.          DEPT.
X~~ ~IRAAD                                  MO STAT         TENASSERE[N
STATE          DIVISION                                       DIVISION
AKYAB           BASSEIN                      MOUEN             MERGUI
KYAUKPYU         SANDOWAY                                       TAVOY            KAWTHAUG
World Bank-16387
August 1976






SA1NMALAIK DOK ,52W0 
R  WA rASCUAin . A F                                                           (2 l ,G
NMALAJ  .ETTY                                                       YM A                       A,AM
FO ~         ~          -     \r                          LCT' OYER     CO RFORMIGN                                      ECRl.TAN, OREHPBY  TY                                                                                         < :  TC
PAN"LANGGzANHORFiOt ACORC                                                                                                                                                              j'4
EX~ER  P.,f   t                        ,, ;4,5                                                                  T '              - ,A                                                            '
/4~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ _)/                                                                                                                                              _ .  
KEMMENDINE 
Y (TEFYAN                                                        KEY  PLAN                               '
C~~~~~L YE-ARE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THAKF-TA BRDG
\\ABEDARICN '11
.fANG WL4/RF                                                      =---J7 MILES
'AS'  '5                     A 23   45  
o   (2k.~~~~~~~~~~~ZL"=-L KMS
5A~~~~~~~LCFWNTJ4F~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA                                                                                                                                              SY - I AM
z      \AHLONE ~~ ~~~R    A    N    G    0    0    N
ELECTRY POWBER CORCfPAPTION                                      ,,,.,A',, FTERLOHTE-
POAHO STATION                       ~~~~~~PORT CORF'UIATIIIN NORKASHOS
C  LANMADAW FTj CHFE          BFOTOflNG STREEL WHARVES
<(l                                         P~~~~~~~~~YIEAGODTA WARARFS          -               I
V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il 'TTR  CARGO) BOAT
CAO  ANCHROACS
A"CH ORA4E
IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
NO ~ ~  ~    ~     ~ ~ M
BANiAUNOTO CREEK                                                         ____E                                                                               BANK
NOTE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~SAN['
ALL SOIJNOINGS ABE IN FEET                           /                             ElETTII ..7C     1!7)  3ihOU 4000          77          -         S
METRES t,TILL                                                                   MU71  T1Rt71 ~ LT F                  PORT    OF    RANGOON                                            3
7 -16






A?2t                      ,                             BURMA
SECOND RANGOON PORT PROJECT
Al-,) oAREAS OF DREDGING FOR DEEPENING  CHANNEL
TO 15 FEET MINIMUM
SYRI AM
GP<8-KYg   Ss5Xow \                         TRANSIT LINES
o* +    w \    g  LIFFEY                       H,W
I J \                  ........  DATUM
k 1 CHOKEY                      3 FATHOMS
PT
CHANNEL DEEPENING
DA SILVA PT )       DEVILS
DANO~  ~,HOLE
DANO
BASSEIN
CREEK/
\ !:; S- 
THANTE
o     2    4      6     8     10    -       .        4-
MILES                     -' '                   ' ~ .   EASTERN
0        5         10       15                >.       ;              GROVE
KILOMETERS                ELEPHANT    '..y.-                 FLATS
PT.
I  ,;    t   B   ***-os.*.Wv.s.**.-w.e**> ...................................
SP . 
z               ...   >    UtsvE  BAR
CHI NABAKIR                   , ,
FLATS/
/ ,A .BP-L2
7-76                                                           .






IBRD 10044RI
N                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1976
RVIN
Al~~~~
:EE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                               O~
IL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ O                      AN
r -0 
N id/of                                                                                                         



