CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 671 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Second Ports Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 13, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1977, between THE SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and the
Burma Ports Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Burma
Ports Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BPC" means the Burma Ports Corporation established by
the Rangoon Port Act 1905, as amended, and subsequently renamed
and reorganized as the Burma Ports Corporation under the laws of
the Borrower and shall include any successor or successors thereto
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BPC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Program" means BPC's investment program
covering the last two years of the Second 4-Year Plan (1976-77 and
1977-78) and the whole of the Third 4-Year Plan extending to 1981-82,
as defined by mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for rehabilitation and re-
pair of dredgers to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿-5-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each Jan-
uary 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 1987, and ending July 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of BPC, or any other per-
son duly authorized in writing by him, is designated as represent-
ative of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required
or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, in respect
of the amount relent to BPC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out by BPC with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose, and the funds required to enable BPC to
operate efficiently.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to BPC the proceeds of the
Credit under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bor-
rower and the Association. Except as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, such agreement shall provide, inter
alia, that BPC shall pay periodically to the Borrower amounts re-
presenting (i) interest at an annual rate of nine per cent (9%)
on the principal amount so relent and outstanding from time to
time and (ii) amortization of the principal amount so relent in
twenty-four equal semi-annual installments commencing September 30,
1980.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause BPC to appoint, not
later than June 30, 1977 or such other date as may be agreed be-
tween the Borrower and the Association, a dredging expert or ex-
perts to advise on the rehabilitation of dredgers, to train dredger
crews and to assist in improving the efficiency of operation of
the dredger "Thaung Naing Yay".


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to cause to be in-
sured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause BPC to furnish to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause BPC to maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable and cause BPC to enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds


﻿-8-
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the As-
sociation that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause BPC, not later than
December 31, 1977 to complete the rehabilitation of the dredger,
"Thaung Naing Yay" and not later than December 31, 1978, to com-
plete deepening the access channel to the port of Rangoon to a
minimum of fifteen feet below datum (lowest low water) and to
maintain such channel at such depth thereafter.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause BPC to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of BPC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause BPC to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Director General, Central Accounts Offica, acting on
behalf of the Council of People's Inspectors of the Borrower;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
BPC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause BPC:
(a) to manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in ac-
cordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and


﻿- 10 -
port management practices and under the supervision of experienced.
and competent management assisted by qualified and competent staff;
(b) to take all action reasonably required to maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or
useful in the conduct of BPC's business; and
(c) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, in-
surance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consis-
tent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that BPC carries out
the Investment Program and shall not change such program without
prior consultation with the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause BPC to take from time to time all
necessary steps as shall be required to provide and maintain re-
venues from its port operations sufficient to produce an annual
rate of return of 6%.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing the net operating income of BPC from its
port operations for the fiscal year in question
by the average of the value of the net fixed as-
sets of BPC in operation at the beginning and at
the end of the year in question.


﻿- 11 -
(ii) The term "value of the net fixed assets of BPC in
operation" shall mean the gross value of such assets,
less the amount of accumulated depreciation, as
valued from time to time in accordance with sound
and consistently maintained methods of valuation,
acceptable to both the Borrower and the Association.
(iii) The term "net operating income" shall mean the
difference between:
(A) gross operating revenue accruing from the port
operations of BPC; and
(B) the operating and administration expenses of
BPC's port operations, including taxes (if
any) or any payment in lieu of taxes (if any),
adequate maintenance and straight--line depre-
ciation but excluding interest and other charges
on debt.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that BPC will incur debt only if
BPC's net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding the date of
such incurrence or for any later twelve-month period ended prior
to the date of such incurrence, whichever net revenues are the
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirement; for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt incurred
for the benefit of BPC, including the debt to be incurred.


﻿- 12 -
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by or on
behalf of BPC, including debt assumed or guaranteed
by the Borrower for BPC, except debt incurred in
the ordinary course of business and maturing by its
terms on demand or less than one year after its
incurrence;
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt in-
cludes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
(A) under a contract or loan agreement, on the date
it is drawn down pursuant to such contract or loan
agreement, and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
shall have been entered into but shall be only
counted to the extent that the underlying debt is
outstanding;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means total revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of BPC's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during
the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating
and other expenses, including adequate maintenance,
taxes, if any, other than income taxes, and admin-
istrative expenses, but before provision for depre-
ciation and debt service requirements;


﻿- 13 -
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by BPC, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be
reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause BPC to take steps satis-
factory to the Association to improve adequately maintenance pro-
cedures for cargo handling and other equipment and the training of
craftsmen engaged in such maintenance, including, prior to March 31,
1978 or such other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association, the preparation of properly drawn up maintenance
schedules and the employment of specialists acceptable to the As-
sociation to provide training in the maintenance of equipment.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause BPC to maintain sepa-
rate accounts for its coal trading operations and shall permit BPC
to charge such rates for coal supplies as will enable BPC at least
to recover all costs of importation, storage, handling and distri-
bution of such supplies and other costs related thereto.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of BPC or for the suspension of its operations, without previous
mutual agreement between the Borrower and the Association; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended or
abrogated without previous mutual agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, any events specified in para-
graphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and BPC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BPC, respectively, and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BPC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date April 13, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02, and 4.04 through 4.07 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance or the
Deputy Minister of Planning and Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Ministers' Office Post Office
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U Tin Lat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditure
Category                      Dollar Equivalent) to be financed
(1) Rehabilitation and repair           1,550,000     100% of foreign
of dredgers, including                            expenditures
provision of spare parts,
documentation, preparation
of specifications and
inspection
(2) Materials, components                 260,000     100% of foreign
and spare parts for                               expenditures
repairs to survey,
buoy and pilot vessels
(3) Position finders and                  70,000     100% of foreign
navigational aids                                 expenditures
(4) Cargo handling equipment            3,880,000     100% of foreign
and spare parts for cargo                         expenditures
handling equipment
(5) Plant, machinery and                1,590,000     100% of foreign
equipment materials                               expenditures
for construction of
pontoons, bridges and
ancillaries


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in     Expenditure
Category                      Dollar Equivalent) to be financed
(6) Training                              310,000    100% of foreign
expenditure
(7 Unallocated                          1,670,0OO
TOTAL          10,000,000


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of',
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to fi-
nance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the opin-
ion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 22 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand and improve the capacity of
the Port of Rangoon by providing for long overdue replacements and
rehabilitation works, by stabilizing and deepening the access
channel between the sea and the Port of Rangoon and by making im-
provements to cargo handling and other facilities and consists of:
A. Rehabilitation and/or repair of and provision of spare parts
for:
(a) the suction dredger "Thaung Naing Yay" which will be
utilized for deepening and maintaining the Rangoon
access channel to fifteen feet below datum;
(b) the dredger "Kyant Khaing Yay" for maintaining
the required dredged depths at the port berths and
in the port as necessary;
(c) a pilot vessel, survey vessel, buoy tender and grab
dredgers for port services; and
(d) cargo handling equipment (including forklift trucks,
mobile cranes, tractors, and trailers).


﻿-24-
B. Provision of:
(a) new cargo handling equipment (including mobile cranes,
forklift trucks, tractors, trailers, and low loaders)
to replace worn out and irreparable equipment;
(b) position finding equipment and navigational aids for
precision dredging of channels and the accurate marking
of such channels;
(c) steel, mooring chains and plant, machinery,and ancillary
equipment for replacement and/or repair of steel pontoons,
sponsons and bridges at riverside berths; and
(d) workshop machinery and tools to improve facilities
for repair and maintenance of cargo handling equipment
and vessels.
C. Provision of services for:
(a) preparation of documentation for dredger rehabilitation
and/or repair and supervision;
(b) training of dredger crews (including technical assis-
tance); and


﻿- 25 -
(c) training of (i) planning personnel and (ii) workshop
technicians in the use of new machinery and in new
maintenance procedures (including technical assistance).
D. The dredging of the Rangoon Sea Access Channel to a depth
of fifteen feet below datum (lowest low water) and its main-
tenance at that depth.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A. International Competitive Bidding
1. Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2. Bidders for the rehabilitation of the dredger "Thaung Naing
Yay" under the Project shall be prequalified as described in
Qh 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
B. Jther Procurement Procedures
Such components and spare parts as may be agreed with the
Association and are included in Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4)
of the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may
be procured under procedures other than those referred to in
Part A.1 of this Schedule which are to be agreed with the
Association.


﻿- 27 -
C. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Association in detail of the pro-
cedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Association shall reasonably request.
2. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more, except for contracts for components
and spare parts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 28 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
3. With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
except for spare parts, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information


﻿- 29 -
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


