Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H396 - STP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Public and Natural Resource Management Development Policy Grant) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ E PRÍNCIPE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 18, 2008  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H396 - STP
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 18, 2008, entered into between the DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ E PRÍNCIPE (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in 
support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has 
decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient 
has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to three million 
sevenhundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000
)
(“the Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action 
to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing which would have the effect 
of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under 
the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be carried 
out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister of Planning and Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Largo das Alfandegas 
Caixa Postal 168 
São Tomé 
República Democrática de São Tomé e Príncipe 
 
Facsimile: 
   E-mail 
address: 
239-222182  
 
MPFC@CSTOME.NET 
Page  4
3
6.03. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ E PRÍNCIPE 
 
By  /s/ Raul Antóni
Costa Cravid
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Olivier P. Fremond 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1.
 
Conselho de Ministros
 has issued decree number 9, dated April 30, 2008, published in 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008, authorizing the 
Recipient’s 
Observatorio de Pobreza
 to develop a new PRSP.
 
2. 
In compliance with article 23 of the Recipient’s Public Finance Management Law,   
Conselho de Ministros
 has submitted to the Recipient’s National Assembly, as a prelude 
for final approval, the Recipient’s 2008 budget.  
3. 
Conselho de Ministros
 has issued decree number 10/2008, dated April 30, 2008, 
published in 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008, approving and 
specifying all budget codes that correspond to poverty reduction priorities in social 
sectors.  
4.  
For purposes of the elaboration and presentation of the 2008 national budget, the 
Recipient, through MPF, has used the 2007 budget codes approved by 
the Recipient’s 
National Assembly along with the Recipient’s 2007 national budget,  that enable the  
tracking of revenues and expenditures by functions of the State.   
5. 
The Recipient has established an accounting system for public accounts, and regulated it 
with decree number 21/07, dated May 24, 2007, published in 
Diário da República
 
number 43, dated September 7, 2007. 
6. (a) 
Conselho de Ministros 
through decree number 8/2008, dated April 30, 2008, 
published in 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008, has created at MPF a 
public accounting department, with staff, operational resources and budget acceptable to 
the Association; and 
(b) 
Conselho de Ministros 
through decree number 7/2008, dated April 30, 2008, 
published in 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008, has created at MPF an 
information technology department, with staff, operational resources and budget 
acceptable to the Association.     
 
Page  6
5
7. 
The Recipient, through MPF, has 
submitted to the Recipient’s National Assembly, as a 
prelude for final approval, a bill of law creating a new corporate tax code, in a form and 
substance acceptable to the Association.  
8. 
The Recipient, through MPF, has submitted to the Recipient’s National Assembly, as a 
prelude for final approval, a bill of law creating a new personal income tax code, in a 
form and substance acceptable to the Association. 
9. 
The Recipient, through MRN’s resolution number 11/2008, dated April 23, 2008, 
adopted EITI National Committee’s detailed roadmap for the implementation of EITI in 
the Recipient’s territory, in a form and substance acceptable to the Association.  
10. (a) 
Conselho de Ministros, 
has approved  with decree number 11/2008, dated April 30, 
2008, published in 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008, the Model 
Contract, in a form and substance acceptable to the Association; and   
(b) 
Conselho de Ministros, 
has submitted
 to the Recipient’s National Assembly, as a 
prelude for final approval, the National Petroleum Bill of Law, in a form and substance 
acceptable to the Association.   
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a Single Tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of 
the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocation 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
3,700,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
3,700,000 
Page  7
6
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts 
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures 
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to finance 
Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the 
Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
Page  8
7
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“
Conselho de Ministros
”
means the Recipient
’s Council of Ministers, headed by the 
Recipient’s President or its Prime Minister, and comprised by all the Ministers of 
the Recipient’s Executive Power. 
 
2. 
“
Diário da República
”
means the Recipient’s Official Gazette. 
 
3. 
“EITI” means Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, a coalition of governments, 
companies, civil society groups, investors and international organizations engaged in a 
voluntary global compact for the improvement of transparency in countries that are 
dependent on extractive industries.      
 
4. 
“EITI National Committee” means the Recipient’s National Committee created through 
MRN’s (as hereinafter defined) resolution number 17/2007, dated December 13, 2007, 
and headed by the Recipient’s Minister of Natural Resources and Environment, and 
comprising representatives of the Recipient’s:  (a) national government; (b) extractive 
industries; (c) civil society; (d) chambers of commerce; (e) national press; and (f) unions, 
for purposes of implementing EITI in the Recipient’s territory.      
 
5.  
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667  
Pearls, precious a
nd 
Page  9
8
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party;  
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
 
6.  
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Model Contract” means the model form of contract, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Association, to be used by the Recipient in its future contractual relationships with 
petroleum companies operating in the Recipient’s territory and approved by the 
Recipient’s 
Conselho de Ministros
 through decree number 11/2008, dated April 30, 2008, 
published in the Recipient’s 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008.  
 
8. 
“MPF” means 
Ministério do Plano e Finanças, 
the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning and 
Finance, or any successor thereto.  
 
Page  10
9
9. 
“MRN” means 
Ministério dos Recursos Naturais e Meio Ambiente,
 the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, or any successor thereto. 
 
10. 
“National Petroleum Bill of Law” means the Recipient’s bill of law to regulate the 
administration of hydrocarbon resources in the Recipient’s territory, including, 
inter alia
,
the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas. 
 
11. “
Observatorio de Pobreza
”
means MPF’s unit created by 
Conselho de Ministros, 
through 
decree number 32/2005, dated December 21, 2005, published in 
Diário da República
 
number 38, dated December 30, 2005, in charge of poverty reduction matters in the 
Recipient
’s territory. 
 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated May 7, 2008, from the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during its execution.  
 
13. 
“PRSP” means the Recipient’s Poverty Reduction Strategy to be developed by the 
Recipient’s 
Observatorio de Pobreza, 
as per the mandate of the Recipient’s 
Conselho de 
Ministros, 
set forth in decree number 9/2008, dated April 30, 2008, published in the 
Recipient’s 
Diário da República
 number 21, dated May 7, 2008. 
 
14. 
“Public Finance Management Law” means the Recipient’s law number 3/2007, dated 
December 28, 2006, published in 
Diário da República
 number 4, dated 
 
February 12, 2007, that establishes and 
harmonizes the Recipient’s rules and procedures 
on programming, execution and control of public resources. 
 
15. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
Page  11
10 
 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
