Report No. 589a-WSO                                                                         FILE  COPY
Western Samoa
Appraisal of a First
Highway Project
February 14, 1975
Transportation Division
East Asia and Pacific Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not ac(ept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVAL NTS
Currency Unit   -  T4a  (WS$)
USO1             -  WS$D0.60
WS$1             -  U60.67
WS$1 million    -  US$1,666,667
WKIGUTS AND? MA8UJl
ilatric by8te)R
Miptric                                      Brl4tsh/U$
1  -illiU ter (mW                    -    0-04  ach (in)
1 centimeter (cm)                    -    0.39 inch (in)
1 Dter (m)                           -   3,28 fpet (ft3 
1culc motor (m )                          35409 cisc feet (ft )
1 kilpmeter (kn)                                             (sq0.62  ls  Od)
I square kilometr (km03)                       s 0.2qre iieS (sq ui
1 hectare (ha)                            2,47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                               0 .20.2 . F ti >11os (Mig)
.    0.26 1US gallow  (USg)
1 kilogram (kg)                           2.20 pounds (1k)
1 meutric ton (m ton)                3    2,204 pounds (lb)
A-BREVIATIONS AND ACRO:NYS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
EDD       -    Ecnomic Development Pepgrtuent
ENEX      -    Engineering EWcport Association of New Zealand
GDP       -    Goss Domestic Product
GNP       _    Gross NAtional Product
PWD       -    Public Works Dep&rtment
SVIEC     _    Snowy vetits          nearing Corporation
SPD       -    Special Projeirts Division
SPDC      -    Special Projects Developpnt Corporation
UNDP      -    United Natims Development Programme
vpd       -    Vehicles per Day
FISCA YEAR
January 1 to December 31



WESTERN SAMOA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................               i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION   ..................................                       1
II.   BACKGROUND    ..................................                        2
A.   The Country and its Economy ....            .............         2
B.    Transport Strategy ..........................                    3
C.   Transport Coordination and Planning             .........         4
III.   HIGHWAYS  ..5......................................                     5
A.   The Network .................................                     5
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Traffic .......                    6
C.    Road User Charges ...........................                    8
D.   Administration ..............................                     8
E.   Planning and Engineering ....................                     9
F.   Construction ................................                    10
G.   Maintenance .................................                    11
IV.   THE PROJECT . ......................................                   12
A.   Description .................................                    12
B.    Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component                   14
C.   Project Financing and Execution ....            .........        16
D.  Disbursements ................... 18
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..............................                     18
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................                    22
This report has been prepared by lessrs. H. J. Schlechtriem (Economist)
and R. Alexander (Engineer).



-2-
TABLES
1.  The Public Highway Network (1968-1973)
2. Importation of Motor Fuel (1965-1973)
3. Motor Vehicle Registrations (1965-1973)
4.  Estimated Revenue from Road User Charges (1971-1972)
5. Highway Budget Allocations (1972-1974)
6. Design Standards for Project Roads
7. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8. Average Daily Traffic on Project Roads
9. Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
10. Estimated Costs and Benefits
CHART     IBRD 8789R Organization of Public Works and the Special Projects
Development Corporation
MAP       IBRD 10937R Western Samoa



WESTERN SAMOA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the Bank Group's first project in Western
Samoa which became a member of the Group in June 1974. Western Samoa is a
small island nation in the South Pacific with a population of 152,000 and
one of the least developed countries of the world. There are two principal
islands, Savaii and Upolu, and the proposed project is located on the latter.
The Government is about to prepare a new development plan which will aim at
expanding and increasing the productivity of agriculture and encouraging
further development of industry and tourism. Western Samoa's substantial
requirements for capital aid and technical assistance so far have mainly been
met by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), and, bilaterally, from Australia and New Zealand. These assis-
tance programs are being carefully coordinated, as demonstrated in the pre-
paration and formulation of this proposed highway project.
ii.       In its efforts to set up a modern transport system, the Govern-
ment in the past assigned highest priority to improvements in ports and
aviation. With the requirements for external traffic largely met, the Gov-
ernment is giving increased attention to domestic transport needs. The
580 km public highway network is satisfactory in coverage but generally in
poor condition and inadequate to meet traffic needs of the motor vehicle
fleet of about 2,900 vehicles at reasonable cost. To determine priorities
among wide-spread needs for road improvements, the Government, with Australian
bilateral aid, had a Preinvestment Study for Road Development carried out in
1972. The Study assigned highest priority to the early reconstruction of the
East Coast and the Central Cross Island Roads which are included in the project.
The requirements for improved road maintenance and modest rehabilitation
efforts to bring roads into reasonable operating conditions were identified
in October 1974 under an Australian-financed study and in December 1974 the
Australian Government made a grant of A$4.5 million to help Western Samoa under-
take a five-year program for improving highway maintenance.
iii.      This first highway project comprises the reconstruction, including
supervision by consultants, of the East Coast Road (24 km) and the Central
Cross Island Road (18 km) to two-lane paved standards. Feasibility analyses
and detailed engineering for these works were prepared in 1973 and 1974 by
the consultants, Engineering Export Association of New Zealand (ENEX), under
New Zealand bilateral aid. The construction supervision also will be carried
out by ENEX under bilateral aid and a condition to the effectiveness of the
proposed credit is that a contract for the services, satisfactory to the
Association, has been approved by New Zealand. The project was appraised in
February/March 1974; an updating mission was made in July/August 1974.



- ti -
iv.       The estimated project cost is US$7.95 million, and the proposed
credit will finance US$4.4 million of foreign exchange cost. The entire
cost of project preparation and construction supervision is to be borne by
the Government of New Zealand and is estimated at US$1.07 million. Western
Samoa will contribute the remaining cost of US$2.48 million. The construction
cost estimate is based on detailed quantity estimates and unit rates which
were negotiated between the consultants and the Government' s semi-autonomous
Special Projects Development Corporation (SPDC) which would carry out the
construction of the roads under separate negotiated unit price contracts
similar in content and conditions to internationally tendered contracts. The
cost estimate includes contingency allowances for quantity overruns and for
price increases.
v.        Responsibility for the execution of the project lies with the Public
Works Department (PWD), assisted by ENEX. The project, because of its rela-
tively small size and Western Samoa's isolated location, is unlikely to arouse
the interest of international contractors. As there is no local contracting
industry, the works would be carried out by the SPDC which, under a project
financed by the ADB, has carried out earlier road works successfully and at
reasonable cost. It is the Government's intention that the SPDC will operate
as an efficient contractor to carry out suitable public construction work and
that the PWD will continue to carry out routine maintenance of public facil-
ities and minor improvement works. The Government, in order to provide a
continuous stream of work to the SPDC and to permit efficient utilization of
equipment and experienced staff resources no longer needed for the ADB-
financed project, contracted the SPDC to start priority works on the East
Coast Road in September 1973 according to satisfactory designs prepared by
ENEX. The quality of construction performed and supervision by ENEX is
satisfactory. The project includes retroactive financing of up to US$350,000
for this road from March 1, 1974, and the Government will finance all
expenditures for work performed before this date. The proposed IDA Credit
would be disbursed on the basis of 70% of the eligible costs of construction,
which represents the estimated foreign exchange component.
vi.       The proposed reconstruction of the two roads is expected to promote
the development of the relatively less advanced eastern and southern parts
of Upolu and to contribute to the objectives for the Government's new five-
year development plan. Additionally, the construction of public facilities
by the SPDC will further the Government's objectives by carrying out priority
works at reasonable cost and creating new jobs for its growing labor force,
including on-site training. The quantifiable benefits of the proposed improve-
ment which have been considered in the economic evaluation are savings in
vehicle operating cost, reductions in maintenance costs and avoided costs for
repairs and property damage from storms and storm water. On this basis, the
economic rates of return over the economic lives of the proposed investments
are 24% and 16% respectively for the Last Coast and Central Cross Island Roads.
vii.      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$4.4 million to Western Samoa on the usual terms.



WESTERN SAMOA
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Western Samoa has asked the Association to assist
in financing the reconstruction of two main highway sections totalling almost
42 km in length, including some retroactive financing of one of the sections
for which reconstruction started in September 1973. This project will be the
first Bank Group-financed project in Western Samoa. It is the first one
submitted by the Government since becoming a member of the Bank Group in
June 1974.
1.02      Western Samoa is one of the least developed countries of the world.
Its substantial requirements for capital aid and technical assistance so far
have mainly been met by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) and, bilaterally, by Australia and New Zealand.
Tne different assistance programs generally were well coordinated to meet the
country's needs; this is demonstrated by recent transport projects and this
proposed highway project. Financial assistance from the ADB helped construct
the new Faleolo Airport and airport access road. New Zealand is now assisting
in the operation of the airport. Both Australia and New Zealand are partic-
ipating in an inter-island ferry project: New Zealand financed the shore
facilities, a sea channel and provided a used ferry boat, while Australia
will provide a new ferry boat (para 2.07). Australia is providing con-
tinuous assistance for highway maintenance.
1.03      This proposed highway project was identified on the basis of an
Australian-financed Preinvestment Study for Road Development, which was
carried out by the Australian consultants P.G. Pak-Poy & Associates. The
Study established a road improvement strategy and gave highest priority to
the reconstruction of the East Coast Road and the Central Cross Island Road
on the island of Upolu; these road sections are included in the proposed
project. Further studies to determine the improvements required in the
sections and to prepare them for construction were financed by New Zealand
and carried out by the Engineering Export Association of New Zealand (EiEX).
1.04      The proposed highway project is part of a larger effort to achieve
improvements in tlie transport sector, to which several parties will contribute.
New Zealand will directly participate in the project by providing consulting
services for construction supervision. Australia is financing a five-year
program ol road rehabilitation and improved road maintenance in the form
of equipment and technical expertise (para 3.20). The UNDP has been requested
to continue its assistance for economic planning, including transport sector
planning in the framework of an outline Third Development Plan which the



- 2 -
Government will establish with assistance from the ADB. The Association has
agreed to send an agricultural mission in early 1975. Although the mission's
prime purpose will be to identify high priority agricultural projects and
their preparation requirements for international financing, it will also
advise the Government on the needs for feeder and access roads in agricul-
tural areas, which the Government wishes to undertake during the Third
Development Plan (paras 3.02 and 5.03).
1.05      This report is based on information provided by the Government and
consultants and on findings of an appraisal by Messrs. H. J. Schlechtriem
(Economist) and R. Alexander (Engineer) in February/March 1974. As detailed
engineering and plans for project execution had not been substantially
completed at the time of appraisal, an updating visit by Mr. Alexander was
made in July/August 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
A.   The Country and its Economy
2.01      The Polynesian state of Western Samoa comprises the main islands
of Upolu and Savaii and seven virtually uninhabited smaller islands of the
Samoan Island Group in the South Pacific.  The remainder of the island Group,
some 130 km to the east, is the American Territory of Samoa. Total land
area of Western Samoa is 2,600 km2 or about the size of the state of
Rhode Island in the United States. The islands are of volcanic origin and
most of their coasts are surrounded by coral reefs. Rugged mountains
covered by virgin forest form the core of both Upolu and Savaii; agricul-
tural areas along the coasts are limited because of mountain cliffs and
lava fields. Samoa's closest neighbors are Fiji and Tonga, both some
1,300 km away (see Map).
2.02      More than half of the population of 152,000 (1973) live along the
northern coast of Upolu with the capital Apia (pop. 31,000) in the center.
Emigration of Samoans to New Zealand which administered the country until
Independence in 1962, and to other countries of the Pacific, keeps net
population growth below 2.5% p.a. Most Samoans still live in a complicated
social system of extended families with communal property.
2.03      Efforts to set up a National Account System were initiated only
recently and precise figures on the value of goods and services produced
in the country are not yet available. The 1974 World Bank Atlas lists the
estimated GNP per capita in 1972 at US$150 (WS$90) which is among the lowest
in the Pacific Region. Most observers believe that partly as a result of
two severe hurricanes, per capita income stagnated (or even declined) during
the late sixties but that improvements were achieved during the first years
of this decade. With agriculture producing over 40% of GDP and nearly all
exports and employing more than two thirds of the active population, the



- 3 -
economy is highly dependent on weather conditions and world market prices
for copra, cocoa, bananas and timber which are the main export commodities.
Industrial and tourism developments started in the mid-sixties and are still
limited. The largest industrial enterprise on the islands is the American-
owned Potlatch Samoa Inc. timber company which operates on Savaii and which
exported sawn timber valued at about WS$570,000 both in 1972 and 1973.
Tourism which at present is supported by a small and undeveloped industry
(para 5.04) is increasing rapidly; the number of foreign visitors nearly
tripled from roughly 10,000 in 1968 to over 28,000 in 1973. The Government
is encouraging the development of these sectors, but tries at the same time
by appropriate regulation and pricing policies to avoid the dangers unbridled
growth may present to the Samoan environment and culture.
2.04      Limited natural resources and isolation from the rest of the world
are Western Samoa's main constraints to economic development. The current
1971-75 Second Five-Year Development Plan aims at faster economic growth,
mainly through higher productivity and diversification of the agricultural
sector. The Plan allocated 23% of the total anticipated investments of
WS$15.8 million to transport projects in order to avoid impeding economic
development due to an inadequate transport infrastructure. Largely due to
incomplete project preparation, implementation of the Plan, particularly in
agriculture, lags behind schedule and the Government plans to introduce a
Third Plan in 1975. The Government expects a mission of advisors from the
ADB early in 1975 to help in establishing the outline of the new plan. The
scope and size of the new plan are not yet known but it may be in the order
of WS$50 million. The main theme of the new plan will be to increase the
productive capacity of Western Samoa; emphasis will remain on agriculture
and industry, and the development of transport infrastructure will continue.
Also, the Government intends to make a major effort to improve the efficiency
of the administration in order to guarantee a timely implementation of the
new plan and to free more domestic resources for development.
B.   Transport Strategy
2.05      Because of Western Samoa's isolated location and its reliance on
foreign trade, access to neighboring countries and to overseas markets is
the country's most vital transport requirement. Good external communication
also is an essential prerequisite for the development of manufacturing and
tourism in the islands. Therefore, in its efforts to set up a modern
transport system, the Government in the past  gave highest priority to
improvements in ports and aviation. The port of Apia was reconstructed with
a 180 m wharf in 1966; it can accommodate up to 35,000 ton ships and handled
about 100,000 tons of cargo in 1973.  In connection with the Potlatch timber
export project on Savaii, the port of Asau was rebuilt in 1968, but works to
deepen and widen the entrance channel through the coastal reef for large
ships are still underway. With financial assistance from the ADB, a new
airport in Faleolo at the western tip of Upolu and a 32 km connecting road to
Apia were completed in 1973. The airport, which is being operated with the
assistance of New Zealand, has a runway of 1,650 m and is suitable for BAC
111 and DC 9 aircraft; it had a total traffic of 85,000 arriving and depart-
ing passengers in 1973.  From Faleolo Airport, Polynesian Airlines, in which



_4-
the Western Samoan Government has a majority interest, and the regional
carrier Air Pacific operate adequate feeder services to the international
trunk-line airports in Pago Pago (American Samoa) and Nadi (Fiji); Polynesian
Airlines also makes flights to Tonga and Niue Island.
2.06      With the requirements of external traffic largely met, the Govern-
ment is giving increased attention to domestic transport needs in order to
promote agricultural development and exports, support tourism expansion and
reduce the costs of moving workers and consumer goods. The main demand for
domestic transport services is to bring goods and passengers to and from
Apia. This demand is presently being catered for by road transport which
despite the poor state of most roads is the most important mode of transport;
by coastal and inter-island shipping with shallow draft sailing boats, small
mostly Apia-based trading vessels, and a passenger-ferry between Mulifanua
(near Faleolo airport) and Salelologa on Savaii; and by air services pro-
vided by a scheduled carrier and an air taxi company between two airfields
on Upolu and four on Savaii.
2.07      The Government's efforts to improve domestic transport concentrate
on making the road network more reliable and all-weather. With financial
assistance from the Government of New Zealand, a sea channel and terminals
for a roll-on/roll-off ferry were completed in Mulifanua and in Salelologa
in 1973. A used ferry boat was acquired from New Zealand and put into
operation in the second half of 1974; and a new boat is to be provided by
the Government of Australia. To determine priorities among the widespread
needs for road improvements, the Covernment,with Australian bilateral aid,
had a Preinvestment Study for Road Development carried out in 1972 (para 1.03).
The Government generally accepted the Study's recommendations (paras 3.12 and
5.03) and the roads proposed for improvement under this project were identified
in the Study. The Study provides a satisfactory outline of road investment
priorities, subject to updating and refinement of inputs.
C. Transport Coordination and Planning
2.08      There is no problem with regard to coordination between different
modes of transport. Road transport is by far the most important mode; the
distribution of traffic between roads, coastal shipping and aviation is
determined by their relative service advantages and prices. Because of poor
road conditions and the inaccessibility of outlying areas, coastal shipping
and aviation presently carry some traffic which will divert to road transport
once roads have been improved.
2.09      In general, the transport system has developed along rational lines
and available capital resources have been used efficiently. Feasibility
studies by foreign consultants and advisors were carried out for all major
projects. An exception may be the ferry project between the two main islands
for which costs have escalated dramatically as a result of inadequate studies.
The actual annual amounts spent on transport projects are not known but seem
to have averaged about WS$1.5 million (US$2.5 million) between 1971 and 1973.
Tne airport and road project was completed at a total cost of WS$2.6 million
(US$4.3 million), US$2.4 nillion of which was covered by the original ADB



-5-
loan. The ADB recently approved a supplementary loan of US$0.55 million
for tnis project. Other road investments have averaged roughly WS$0.3 million
(US$0.5 million) between 1971 and 1973. The final cost of the ferry channel
and wharf construction was WS$1.76 million (US$2.93 million) to which New
Zealand contributed a grant of WS$1.20 million (US$2.0 million). The cost of
the new ferry boat which Australia will provide is estimated at WS$0.57 million
(US$0.95 million), but the final cost will be higher.
2.10      The Government anticipates that future transport investments will
remain at the level of the last few years but this will depend to a large
extent on whether external financing arrangements for these projects can be
made. Except for this proposed road project, other major transport projects
which are being discussed in the Government for the longer term are an addi-
tional wharf in the port of Apia to accommodate container and passenger ships
and a runway extension of Faleolo airport to handle larger aircraft which
will be needed to give tourists from Australia, New Zealand and the US direct
air connections.
2.11      The Economic Development Department (EDD) under the Minister of
Finance is the Government's prime planning agency. Together with the
Treasury Department and the operating departments and agencies concerned,
it is responsible for preparation and implementation of development plans
and annual development budgets. Transport projects are prepared and executed
through the Public Works Department (PWD). The EDD is inadequately staffed
to carry out its assignment and this situation is likely to continue in the
short term until more Samoan staff with planning skills are available. In
the last two years, it relied mainly on a team of three UNDP economists who
had local counterparts assigned for training; one of the UNDP economists
took responsibility for transport planning. The last of these advisors is
about to leave the country and the Government expects that the UNDP will soon
replace them. The Government requested the UNDP in January 1975 that one
of the replacements have some background in transportation and expects the
adviser to arrive by mid-1975. This would complement the Government's
intention to improve transport project planning in the PWD (para 3.12) by
enabling the EDD to effectively guide the project work of the PWD, to coordi-
nate transport projects with projects in other sectors and to cover transport
policy issues which may require attention such as import quotas for motor
vehicles (para 3.05) and bus licenses (para 3.06). During credit negotiations,
the Government confirmed that it would seek similar assistance from other
sources if the UNDP was unable to provide such an expert in a reasonable
period of time.
III. IHIGHWAYS
A.   The Network (Table 1)
3.01      The public highway network, comprising both municipal and rural
roads, totals 584 km of which 156 km are paved. In addition, there are
226 km of plantation and plantation access roads most of which are open for



- 6 -
public use. The extent of the network is generally adequate. Both Upolu
and Savaii have main roads along their coasts from which penetration roads
extend into the interior. There are three cross-island roads on Upolu but
none on Savaii. The PWD's technical road classification distinguishes
between "permanent roads" (paved with bituminous dressings - 156 km), "improved
roads" (paved with gravel or a mixture of gravel-sand clay - 412 km), and
"unimproved roads" (earth roads, passable only in dry weather - 16 kn); most
plantation roads fall into the category of "improved roads". A new classifica-
tion system was adopted in November 1974 based on road importance (trunk,
secondary, etc.), with ranges of standards for terrain conditions and all
roads are now in the process of being reclassified. During credit negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that this system should include a relationship
between traffic volume and geometric design standards, and indicated its
intention to introduce such a relation in conjunction with the proposed
highways Act (para 3.08) and its efforts to improve data collection and
analysis (para 3.12).
3.02      The physical condition of the network is generally poor and many
sections are inadequate for current traffic levels, because in the past
roads have been developed from foot tracks as funds were available but with-
out designs, defined geometric standards or sound engineering investigations.
An exception is the new road to Faleolo airport (para 2.05) which is the only
modern road in the islands. The requirements for more modest rehabilitation
efforts to bring roads into reasonable operating condition were identified
in October 1974 in an Australian-financed Road Maintenance Study by the
Snowy Mountain Engineering Corporation (SMEC) (para 3.20). No major exten-
sion of the current main road network is foreseen for the near future but
the Government intends to emphasize improvement of village access and
agricultural feeder roads in the proposed Third Development Plan.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.03      The most trafficked road on Upolu is the West Coast Road (west of Apia)
with volumes between 4,250 vehicles per day (vpd) near Apia and 800 vpd near
the airport. Next in order of importance are the East Coast Road (on the
northi coast and east of Apia) and the Central Cross Island Road (south of Apia).
Except for short sections near villages, other roads on Upolu have less than
100 vpd. Traffic on roads on Savaii is light, the highest volume is 200 to
300 vpd on the 6 km section north of Salelologa. The only historical traffic
data available are 1968 counts on the West Coast Road which suggest that traffic
on most parts of this road has more than doubled since then. Traffic on other
roads has grown less rapidly, generally in the order of 8 to 10% p.a., in
line with the increase in gasoline consumption (Table 2).
3.04      In 1973 there were 2,927 motor vehicles (Table 3) registered in
Samoa; 2,664 on Upolu and 263 on Savaii.  Disregarding Government venicles,
the fleet has been growing at an average annual rate of 6.5% until 1970
and about 12% thereafter. Trucks and buses have been the fastest growing



-7-
vehicle category in recent years, representing 56X of the fleet in 1973.
Tnis category includes most types of pick-up vehicles, which are very
popular among Samoan families and are used both for working and private
travel purposes. The average size of trucks and buses is small (5 tons
or 30 passenger capacity respectively) and is appropriate for Western Samoa
as the size of shipments is small.
3.05      Western Samoa receives most of its fuel in small tankers from
Fiji. The immediate effect of the "fuel crisis" was the late arrival of
supply ships resulting in a temporary fuel shortage. The Government con-
sequently introduced a fuel allocation program, directed to reduce con-
sumption by about 20%, and a quota system for the import of vehicles in
addition to existing arrangements for broad foreign exchange allocations
to vehicle dealers. After the Government agreed with the fuel companies
on higher fuel prices, supply ships resumed their regular schedules and
the fuel allocation program was abandoned in March last year. To diminish
the risk of a recurrence of severe fuel shortages, the Government is increasing
the fuel storage capacity in Apia. The quota system for vehicle imports is
still in force, but the system is applied flexibly and vehicle dealers do
not feel unduly restricted at present. The Government wishes to maintain some
control over the growth of the motor vehicle fleet in order to restrain the
growth of motor cars for private use in Apia.
3.06      Public bus transport is closely regulated.  The Transport Control
Board under the Minister of Public Works issues bus licenses covering routes,
schedules, and maximum fares. Most of the 150 or so buses (normally of
a capacity of 30 passengers) licensed by the Board are owned by family ven-
tures, owner-drivers and village cooperatives. On Upolu, a route system
radiating from Apia adequately connects the main areas of the settlement.
On Savaii, scheduled buses operate between Salelologa and Asau only. The
level of bus services is generally low because of bad road conditions and
inadequate fares. The Transport Control Board now has proposed an extended
scale of maximum bus fares but the majority of existing rate ceilings would
be maintained as enacted in 1951. Bus companies are unlikely to improve
their services unless they are allowed to charge higher fares or receive
Government subsidies (see para 2.11).
3.07      There are no restrictions on ownership and operation of trucks
other than normal safety and traffic regulations. However, major users of
trucking services suchi as the Government's Copra Board and the Banana
board do have fixed allowances for the shipment of goods from rural areas
to Apia. Except for the trading companies and a few general transport
companies in Apia, the majority of trucks is owned by owner-drivers or
small family organizations. In general, the system works well and there is
no evidence of insufficient trucking capacity or inadequate services.
3.08      There is an island-wide speed limit of 56 km/h for passenger cars
and 40 km/h for trucks and buses, which suits the design characteristics of
most main roads. There are reasonable vehicle regulations on maximum dimen-
sions but no regulations on axle loadings. The latter has not yet caused



the problem of widespread overloading because there is no demand for heavy
vehicles due to the small size of shipments.  T.ie only heavy vehicles are
Government construction vehicles (and a few timlber trucks on Savaii). All
bridges are designed for a 12 m ton single axle load (except for a few older
bridges) which is appropriate. During credit negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that it will take the necessary action to
ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its roads do
not exceed limits appropriate to the structural and geometric design standards
of such roads.  The PWD is preparing material and standards for a proposed
highways Act to allow the Government. wider powers and legislative control
over thle construction, maintenance and operation of vehicles on the highway
network, and the Government intends to include in the Act controls on maximum
vehicle dimensions and axle loadings.
C.   Road User Charges
3.09       Road users contribute to the Government's revenues through import
and general surcharge duties on vehicles, spare parts and fuels and through
annual registration fees. Import duties on motor vehicles were slightly
revised in 1972 and are now 65% to 95% for passenger cars and 25% to 36%
for commercial vehicles and spare parts. Import duties on fuels amount to
WS43.1 per liter of gasoline and WS01.3 per liter of diesel fuel, that is
30% and 17% of their respective pump prices in Apia. In addition to import
duties, there is a general surcharge duty (primage) of 7.5% on imports.
Annual registration fees are WS$15 for passenger cars and about WS$60
for trucks (varying according to unladen weight). Total road user revenue
from these duties and taxes is estinated at WS$0.67 million for 1971 and
WS$0.66 million for 1972, or 14% anc 12% of the Government's total tax revenue
in these years (Table 4).
3.10      There are no reliable reccrds of actual highway expenditures
during the last few years.  Total highway budget allocations for 1972 to
1974 varied between WS$U.54 and WS$C.69 million (Table 5).  Actual ex-
penditures for road maintenance in 1972 and 1973 probably exceeded the budget
by 20%; actual road development expenditures in these years have been some-
what lower than the budget.  Total expenditures for road maintenance and
development seem to have been somewhat less than revenues collected from
road users during the last two years. This situation can be expected to
change in the near future.  While there will be some increase in road user
revenues, road expenditures will also go up as the road rehabilitation and
maintenance improvement program (para 3.20) will increase current budget
outlays and as thie road improvement program will claim lhighier capital
expenditures than in the recent past. iiowever, road user revenues will
continue to be substantially higher than road maintenance expenditures.
D.   Administration (Chart)
3.11      The PWD under the M4inister of Public Works is responsible for
all public works on the islands including roads.  Thle supply of local



technicians and mechanics is adequate for surveying and equipment operation,
but a chronic problem has been the shortage of professional staff. Two
Samoan engineers have recently joined the PWD after working abroad for several
years and will soon replace expatriate staff. Although the additional needs
are modest, about four engineering posts, it is not possible to fill them at
present. because the engineering profession is held in low esteem by the
Samoans, scholarships and training opportunities overseas,which are abundantly
available, were not used in the past. Consequently some key positions are
filled by expatriates under two-year contracts, e.g., the Director of Public
Works. The expatriates are required to train counterparts and combined with
the advisor-trainers to be provided under Australian bilateral aid (para 3.20)
and the enlarged scope of opportunity for technical and professional staff in
civil works (paras 3.15 and 3.16), the Government expects that Samoans will
become interested in the engineering and technical fields and that its depen-
dency on external expertise will diminish in the near term. This is a practi-
cal approach.
E.   Planning and Engineering
3.12      Road planning has mainly consisted of the technical preparation
of projects which were selected on an apparent need basis, without any
economic evaluation nor appropriate geometric design criteria linked to
road use and traffic. The first effort in planning was the Preinvestment
Study for Road Development (para 2.07). The Study, on the basis of benefit-
cost analyses, established the relative priorities for main road improvements
for the next five to ten years and provides a sound basis for future planning
of road improvements; the East Coast and Central Cross Island Roads received
the highest priority for improvement and are included in the proposed project.
However, updating on a regular basis is required to coordinate road invest-
ments with the Government's agricultural and tourism development schemes.
Also, at present there is no basis for the selection and design of village
access and feeder roads which the Government intends to implement during the
next plan. A prerequisite for this planning work is a regular system for
the collection and analysis of key data, including traffic statistics. During
credit negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that it
will develop, collect and record such economic and financial information as
needed for proper planning of maintenance, improvements and extensions of
its road network, including traffic surveys. To improve the planning and
data collection effort, the Government recently obtained the services of a
transport planner-engineer for the PWD through New Zealand bilateral aid.
He would train a counterpart and be responsible for the evaluation and prepara-
tion of the PWD's transport projects, mainly roads, and would maintain
liaison with the EDD (para 2.11). Additionally, a traffic engineer under
Australian bilateral aid for highway maintenance (para 3.20) will provide
further expertise in the proper collection and analysis of key data.
3.13      The new road classification system and amendments (para 3.i1) and
the enactment of the proposed Highways Act planned for 1975 are expected
to produce satisfactory and uniform country-wide geometric design standards



- 10 -
for the public road network.  Very little structural design for roads is
done in the PWD. Major road improvement projects have been and are expected
to be part of foreign aid schemes and foreign consultants will be used for
their design and supervision; the structural design standards applied are
generally those used in New Zealand. The PWD engineering staff is small
(four engineers, mostly young and somewhat inexperienced) and is considered
capable of only minimum basic designs needed for new plantation access roads.
The training of local PWD staff by expatriates (paras 3. 11 and 3.12) will
gradually diminish the use of foreign consultants.
F.   Construction
3.14      There is no local contracting industry, only artisans (carpenters,
masons, etc.). Except for the ADB project (para 3.15) and the reconstruction
of the roads included in the proposed first highway project, there has been
no significant new road construction in the past nor is any likely in the
future (para 3.02). In view of the relatively small investments involved
and given Western Samoa's isolated location, the country would not be attrac-
tive to the international construction industry. Consequently, all road
improvements in the past have been done by force account which, in the context
of a small country like Western Samoa, is a practical and viable method of
carrying out road works at acceptable costs. This view was borne out by
recent experience under the ADB airport project.
3.15      The ADB agreed in 1969 to the establishment of the Special Projects
Division (SPD) under the PWD to construct the airport and airport road to
modern standards. Materials, some equipment and expatriate staff and super-
visory services by Australian consultants, including management advice, were
covered under the ADB loan. The project provided an excellent opportunity
to determine costs of road construction by a Government unit and assess
methods of construction.  The results after construction showed that costs
were reasonable, lower than those obtained under less organized force account
methods and substantially lower than those experienced on similar Bank Group
financed works in the Pacific region and which are being carried out under
an international contract; that the efficiency of the SPD improved continuously
through monitoring and training by expatriates and consultants; and that
the quality of works performed was satisfactory. Impressed with these results,
the Government in 1973 transformed the SPD into the semi-autonomous Special
Projects Development Corporation (SPDC) (Chart).
3.16      The SPDC comprises the assets and personnel of the old SPD, has
the advantage of maintaining its c,wn accounts, setting up reserves for
equipment and hiring all staff. Although a large number of expatriates are
employed in key positions, their function is also to train counterparts who
will eventually replace them. ThE: SPDC is exempt from payment of import
duties on construction equipment and materials and from corporate taxes.
It lhas a Board of Directors consisting of four Government officials including
the Director of Works who acts as chairman, and of three persons from the



- 1 1 -
private sector. The Government intends that the SPDC will carry out suitable
public construction work under negotiated unit price contracts and operate
as an efficient contractor, and that the PWD will continue to carry out
routine maintenance of public facilities and minor improvement works that
cannot be readily defined for contract purposes. Equipment would be inter-
changed between the SPDC and the PWD on a rental basis thus minimizing over-
all plant requirements. SPDC basic staffing would be a minimum and enlarged
only when necessary for specific contracts by day-hire of skilled and unskilled
labor. Additionally, both the Government and the SPDC hope that perhaps in
the next ten years the SPDC may be in a position to tender competitively for
modest works in the South Pacific area.
3.17      The SPDC's first contract was for the construction of hospital
facilities in Apia (a long-term program) which is financed with bilateral
aid from New Zealand. New Zealand had previously employed national con-
tractors for its aid projects in Western Samoa. Similar to the ADB and
New Zealand projects, the construction of the two roads included in the
project would be carried out by the SPDC; the conditions for efficient
execution of the works by the SPDC are described in paras 4.09-4.11. The
Government, in order to provide a continuous stream of work to the SPDC and
to permit utilization of the SPDC equipment and staff resources which were
no longer needed for the airport road project, contracted the SPDC to start
work on the East Coast Road in September 1973. Tnis priority work was
undertaken on satisfactory terms and conditions; retroactive financing of the
foreign exchange component of construction costs incurred from March 1, 1974
is included in the project (paras 4.05 and 4.07).
G.   Maintenance
3.18      The present annual expenditure on road maintenance averages about
WS$500 (US$830 equivalent) per km, including full allowance for equipment
depreciation. After rehabilitating roads to a maintainable state,an increase
of this amount will be required for proper maintenance but the increase will
be modest if the efficiency of maintenance operations is improved. The
central offices of the PWD in Apia had handled all road maintenance on both
islands but recently six small maintenance divisions were set up, three
each on Savaii and Upolu. Each division is to have a basic equipment
package consisting of one front end loader, three dump trucks, one small
bulldozer, one grader and one roller. However, at present equipment is
sufficient only for three divisions.
3.19      Road surfaces are generally in poor condition.  Most paved surfaces
are breaking up because they were not designed for today's Lraffic loadings
and they have not received timely maintenance. Grading of gravel surfaces
is not possible in most cases because there is either insufficient or no
wearing course left on the road. In addition, inadequate drainage of storm
water has led to rapid erosion of steep sections and the failure of other



-12 -
sections where water is retained at the edges of the roadway and cannot drain
away. Road maintenance at reasonable costs will not be possible before most
paved roads (except the new airport road) and a few sections of the more
heavily trafficked gravel roads are reconstructed to appropriate design
standards, and before a number of the remaining roads receive some heavy
reshaping work to restore surfaces to a maintainable state. A large part
of the reconstruction problem will be solved when work on the two major roads
included in the proposed first highway project is completed.
3.20      Australian bilateral aid has provided assistance in the form of
road maintenance and rehabilitation studies by the SMEC in 1968 and 1971;
some road maintenance and related workshop equipment as a result of recom-
mendations in the reports; and a road advisor assigned to the PWD. Some
improvements were made but fell short of targets due partly to inefficient
use of equipment resulting from inadequate workshop facilities and largely
to the SMC assumption in 1971 that the equipment being used by the SPD to
construct the airport and airport road would be transferred to the PWD and
used for maintenance which was not the case (para 3.16). On the basis of
an updating study by SNEC in October 1974, the Australian Government approved
bilateral aid in the amount of US$5.5 million equivalent for a five-year
program to rehabilitate roads and improve road maintenance, taking into account
the existence of the SPDC and also the role it can play in the execution of
the program. The aid includes the purchase of equipment, the construction and
operation of workshop facilities and up to five advisor-trainers to help
implement the program. During credit negotiations, the technical and finan-
cial details of the five-year program were reviewed; they are satisfactory.
Additionally, assurances were obtained from the Government that the highway
network, maintenance equipment and workshops will be reasonably maintained
and repaired, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and financial
practices, and that the funds, equipment, workshop facilities and other resources
required for the purpose will be provided promptly as needed.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project comprises:
the reconstruction of two main two-lane highway
sections about 42 km long to paved standards
and supervision by consultants.
The project was identified in the Preinvestment Study for Road Development
(paras 1.03 and 2.07) and prepared by ENEX, whose services were financed
under New Zealand bilateral aid. The location of the project is shown on
the Map. Design standards for the highways are given in Table 6 and are
satisfactory.



- 13 -
(i)  East Coast Road
4.02      This main coastal route connecting the north-eastern villages
and plantations of Upolu with the Capital hugs the coast for 23.6 km from
Apia to Falefa Falls with a bituminous pavement width of 4-5 m. The
existing alignment is generally acceptable for the traffic volumes involved
but the pavement surfaces are in very bad condition and eroded in width
due to inadequate drainage, maintenance and pavement strength, resulting
in excessively liigh stop-and-start travel times and vehicle operating costs.
The shoreline tends to be protected from heavy wave action by an outlying
coral reef but some gaps in the reef subject a 9 km stretch to wave attack
from the open sea which is especially severe during storms, causing
continuous erosion of land (including land loss by shifting parts of the
road inland when damaged), high road maintenance and repair costs, crop
losses and interruption of travel for up to two weeks per year. The 23.6 km
section would be reconstructed under the project to two-lane paved standards
on the existing alignment, with some improvements in curvature and shifts
inland, stone foreshore protection about 9 km in length which would protect
the road and property from the average five-year storm, and the replacement
of one weak bridge. In November 1974, severe flooding washed out two existing
bridges and damaged eight others. Replacement of the washed out bridges and
repairs to the damaged ones are included in the project.
(ii) Central Cross Island Road
4.03      This 21.3 km long highway is the principal cross island link
between the north and south coasts of Upolu. Traffic is heavy and urban
in character over the 3.4 km section in flat terrain from Apia to Vailima.
This section is paved to a width of 6-7 m on an acceptable alignment and
with heavy maintenance should be able to carry traffic loads for several
years before some major reconstruction is required. From Vailima the high-
way begins a steep climb up the mountains for about 6.4 km to its high point
of almost 800 m elevation at Afiamalu. Vehicular traffic is somewhat lighter
on this 3-5 m wide paved section and pedestrians are absent; however, the
pavement structure is inadequate for current traffic and in bad condition.
The highway thien descends for 11.3 km to its junction with the South Coast
Road at Siumu. Traffic is much lighter on this stretch which was constructed
in the mid-sixties to 6 m wide gravel standards, but steep gradients combined
with inadequate drainage of storm water and maintenance have eroded its width
to less than 3 m in some places and its gravel pavement structure to the
point where travel is treacherous even at a speed of 10 km/h and impossible
during heavy rains.  The reconstruction of the road between Vailima and Siumu
(17.7 km) under the project would be on the present alignment with some
straightening of sharp curves and reductions of steep grades. From Vailima
to Afiamalu the road would have a double surface treated pavement and
thereafter only a single surface treatment (seal coat) as traffic is lighter.
The Afiamalu-Siumi section will probably require upgrading and pavement
strengthening around 1986.



- 14 -
(iii) Supervision
4.04      The reconstruction of the East Coast Road by the SPDC is being
supervised by ENEX according to its designs (para 4.01) under a contract
reviewed by the Association; the quality of supervision is satisfactory.
Total financing for supervision is being provided under New Zealand bilateral
aid and a revised contract to cover supervision of both the East Coast and
Central Cross Island Roads is now being reviewed by New Zealand. During
credit negotiations it was indicated to the Government that a contract approved
by New Zealand and satisfactory to the Association would be a condition for
tne effectiveness of the credit. Additionally, a general assurance was
obtained from the Government that consultants satisfactory to the Association
will be engaged to supervise construction.
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.05      The total cost of the project, including contingency allowances,
is estimated at US$8.0 million.  The total cost includes the costs of project
preparation and supervision, and land acquisition. The credit will finance
US$4.4 million of foreign exchange cost, including some retroactive financing
of such cost for the construction of the East Coast Road (paras 3.17 and
4.07). All costs are given on the next page and are reasonable.



- 15 -
Project Costs
% Foreign
WS$ (Million)          US$ (Million)       Exchange
Element                  Local Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total Component
I. Financed with IDA
Participation
A. Reconstruc-
tion of East                                          /
Coast Road /1  0.47    1.08  1.55    0.78    1.81L-   2.59           70
B. Reconstruc-
tion of Cen-
tral Cross
Island Road    0.33    0.70  1.00    0.50    1.17    1.67            7U
Sub-total A&B  0.77    1.78  2.55    1.28    2.98    4.26            70
C. Contingencies
(i) Physical /3  0.08    0.19  0.27    0.13    0.30    0.43
(ii) Price  /4    0.28    0.67  0.95    0.48    1.12    1.60
Sub-total C      0.36    0.86  1.22    0.61        1.42    2.03
Total Part I    1.13    2.64  3.77    1.89    4.40    6.29            70
II. Financed Entirely
by New Zealand
D. Project pre-
paration         0.04    0.18  0.22    0.07    0.29    0.36           80
E. Construction
Supervision      0.09    0.34  0.43    0.14    0.57    0.71           80
Total Part II   0.13    0.52  0.65    0.21    0.86          1.07
III. Financed Entirely
by the Government
F. Reconstruction
of East Coast
Road /5          0.04    0.09  0.13    0.07    0.15    0.22          7(
C. Land              0.22       -   0.22    0.37        -      0.37       0
Total Part III  0.26    0.09  0.35    0.44    0.15    0.59
Total Project Cost 1.52    3.25  4.77    2.54    5.41          7.95      68
/1   Construction costs estimated from March 1, 1974.
/2   Includes retroactive financing of up to US$350,000 of eligible costs
incurred fronm Marchi 1, 1974.
/3   10% on I. A andI 1. B.
/4   15% p.a. on foreign and 12% p.a. on local costs for I. A and I. B.
/5   Construction costs incurred prior to Marcih 1, 1974.



- 16 -
4.06       Preliminary construction cost estimates for the project roads were
prepared by the SPDC in September 1973 and February 1974 and subsequently
reviewed by ENEX, based on detailed quantities prepared by ENEX and on unit
prices developed from the costs of similar work recently performed by the
SPDC (para 3.15); final unit prices were negotiated between ENEX, acting for
the Government, and the SPDC. The cost estimates were adjusted for prices
to January 1, 1975.  The unit prices take into account all labor, materials,
equipment depreciation and overheads. Contingencies of 10% for quantities
and about 34% for prices are adequate. The price contingency allowed on
foreign and local costs of civil works takes into account recent Bank Group
experience as well as recent and expected trends in Western Samoa. The
foreign exchange component of highway construction, which is 70% and reason-
able, was assessed by the SPDC and ENEX; it is based on all work being performed
by the SPDC and takes into account the high proportion of expatriate staff
and low price of domestic labor employed by the SPDC. The costs of project
preparation and supervision were taken from existing or proposed contracts
with ENEX; land acquisition costs were estimated by the Government. The
project cost estimates were confirmed with the Government during credit
negotiations.
C.   Project Financing and Execution
4.07       Reconstruction of the East Coast Road by the SPDC over a 10 km
front started in September 1973 (para 3.17) (mainly clearing, establishing
quarries, crushing stone and minor earthmoving) and to date work is satis-
factory. The Government has requested the Association to participate in
financing some of the earlier expenditures. The proposed credit of US$4.4
million will finance the foreign exchange costs of reconstructing the East
Coast Road, including up to US$350,000 of retroactive financing from March 1,
1974, and the Central Cross Island Road. The Government will finance all
expenditures on the East Coast Road before March 1, 1974 and all local costs
thereafter on the two project roads, including land acquisition costs, which
altogether total US$2.48 million. The Government of New Zealand has financed
the full cost of project preparation and will finance the full cost of con-
struction supervision, totalling US$1.07 million. The Government of Western
Samoa will cover its share of cost through annual budgetary allocations which
will cause no undue difficulty. During credit negotiations, confirmation
was obtained from the Government that it will provide all necessary funds
to complete the project.
.06     'I'lie l'WD, assisted by qualified consultants (para 4.04) will be
responsible for project execution.  .he reconstruction of the project roads
would be carried out by thc SPDC (para 3.17) under separate unit price con-
tracLs negotiated with the 1PWD.  A satisfactory construction contract now
exists for the Last Coast Road and a further one will be negotiated, subject
to the approval of the Association, for the Central Cross Island works
shortly before the works are scheduled to commence (October 1975). The
latter one will be based on the agreed unit prices of the East Coast Road,
adjusted for documented price increases up to October 1975, and take into



- 17 -
account actual experience with construction of the East Coast Road. These
contracts contain all the normal provisions of international unit price
highway contracts (e.g., price escalation, quantity increases). Equipment
and materials are procured by the SPDC after receiving at least three
quotations from international manufacturers and suppliers which is the
practice followed by international contractors and provides reasonable prices.
4.09      Rep2acement of obsolete PWD construction equipment is covered in
annual capital budget allocations but delays and downward adjustments often
occur when amounts are finally agreed with the result that work programs
frequently have fallen short of targets due to a lack of equipment in good
working order. A major advantage in creating the SPDC as a contractor was
that Government payments to it would cover equipment depreciation thus
enabling the SPDC to accrue funds for and to have direct control over
timely replacement of old equipment. Although the SPDC has been given the
equipment used to construct the airport road (para 3.16), it is not sufficient
in number for the execution of project roads (e.g., dump trucks, motor
graders, rollers, some shop equipment) and cash accruals for equipment
depreciation against the East Coast Road works have not been sufficient to
permit the SPDC to purchase the needed equipment. A detailed list of required
equipment (replacements and additions), estimated at US$600,000 complete with
specifications, has been prepared by the SPDC and ENEX. With the Government's
authorization, the SPDC requested quotations from suppliers in October 1974
and placed orders in November 1974. During negotiations, the construction
timetable for the project roads was reviewed in relation to equipment delivery
dates and found to be realistic. Consequently, the East Coast Road should
be completed in the third quarter of FY78 and the Central Cross Island
Road in the second quarter of FY79.
4.10      The amount of equipment purchased for the efficient execution of
the project roads is modest and should at the conclusion of the project leave
the SPDC with total equipment holdings capable of constructing civil works
valued at about US$1.5 million annually which the Government can appropriately
make use of in undertaking various works in its development program. During
credit negotiations, the longer-term work program of the SPDC was reviewed
with the Government and judged to be reasonable. Moreover, the Government
indicated its intention to periodically review the role, the SPDC could and
should play in executing major civil works within the five-year development
plan and to adjust SPDC's resources as necessary.
4.11      The SPDC is adequately staffed but as many of the required skills
are not now available in Western Samoa, most supervisory positions have
been filled by suitably qualified expatriates. Several local SPDC staff will
be trained by these expatriates and can replace some of the expatriates near
the conclusion of the project (para 3.16). The Government and the SPDC also
agree that due to some new plant deliveries by the end of 1974 and the large
injection of further plant early in 1975, the SPDC will require a number
of additional equipment operators who need to be trained in advance of equip-
ment arrival. Such training is vital for the efficient use of the new



- 18 -
equipment. During credit nevotiations, the Government confirmed that an
equipment training specialist from an equipment supply firm had arrived
in Western Samoa and had initiated training courses. Additionally, an equip-
ment specialist is soon to arrive in Western Samoa under Australian bilateral
aid (para 3.20) and will help to fill in gaps should they arise. These
arrangements are satisfactory.
4.12      Construction practices by the PWD and the SPDC tend to make greater
use of labor intensive methods than normal equipment-usage type on inter-
national construction contracts (for clearing, grubbing, ditching, trenching,
some soft rock excavation). The result is an appropriate blend of labor and
equipment for local conditions; this blend will be used for the project roads.
4.13      The bulk of the highway reconstruction follows the existing align-
ment thus only a small amount of additional right-of-way will be needed for
realignments; some easements on private property are also required for accom-
iaodating and controlling water run-off from the roads. The Government is
reviewing the detailed requirements and intends to take early action to acquire
needed land and easements. During negotiations, the status of land acquisition
and easements was reviewed, and progress to date is satisfactory. Additionally,
the Association obtained assurances from the Government that all necessary
land and easements will be acquired for the timely construction of the pro-
ject roads.
4.14      The project is not expected to cause ecological problems or adversely
affect the environment as the reconstruction will basically improve what was
originally there. The construction of shore protection for the East Coast
Road (para 4.02) will enhance the environment by protecting valuable village
lands from sea damage and erosion. Major roadway drainage works for the
Central Cross Island Road will protect adjacent lands from flood damage and
erosion.
D.   Disbursements
4.15      Credit funds will be disbursed on the basis of 70% of the total cost
of construction (the estimated foreign exchange component) incurred from
March 1, 1974 and retroactive financing will not exceed US$350,000. Based
on this percentage and on the forecast of project completion (paras 4.06 and
4.09), a Sclhedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 7) has been prepared.
Surplus funds remaining in the credit account after completion of the project
will be cancelled.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
General
5.01      The East Coast Road and Central Cross Island Road proposed for
iniprovement under this project are the raain lifelines of eastern and southern
Upolu, where around 35,000 people live (a third of Upolu's population) and



- 19 -
where, among other things, about half of the island's copra exports is
produced. The existing roads are in very bad condition, resulting in long
travel times and niigh cost to traffic and, because of their inadequate
engineering characteristics, in high maintenance and repair costs to the
Government. Mainly because of difficult transport conditions, eastern and
southern Upolu are largely separated from the "modern sector" in Apia and
less advanced than the north-western part of the island where transport is
adequate.
5.02      The proposed project works would ease the separation noted above
and provide a stimulus to the rural villages in the influence area of the
two roads for greater participation in the cash economy. A family (of 9
to 10) in the project area has at present a wage income of about WS$35 per
montn which is 65% of that of a family in the north-west and only one tiiird
of one in Apia.  While in the north-west 30% of family production is marketed,
it is only 20% in the project area. Family expenditures for education are
about 25% lower than along the west coast. Improved access to employment
opportunities, market and social services in Apia together with increased
earning possibilities at home are likely to change this situation decisively.
5.03      By improving access to urban markets, the project roads would
provide an incentive to the rural population to convert land from subsistence
to casih crop production. In this way, the project would contribute to the
Government's objective for its next Development Plan to motivate expansion
and increases in productivity in the agricultural sector. Also, both roads
serve areas of potential forestry and cattle developments on freehold and
crown land. The Preinvestment Study for Road Development (para 1.03) suggest-
ed that the main economic use of a high lying area of 6,000 ha on both sides
of the Central Cross Island Road would be grazing land for a herd of up to
21,000 cattle. To the east of the Central Cross Island Road on the southern
slope of the Central Mountain Range, the consultants proposed cattle ranching
for an area of 20,000 ha with a carrying capacity of 73,500 cattle, after
an access road had been built into the area and after existing timber
resources had been harvested.  The need to feed a growing population is
prompting the Government to investigate these schemes more intensively as part
of an overall agricultural project review in which the Bank Group staff will
participate (para 1.04).
5.04      The project roads would help to spread the benefits of tourism
more evenly over the country. With the exception of a small hotel on the
south coast, the tourist industry at present is almost completely centered
in Apia, in terms of available accommodations (two private hotels and a
new Government-owned notel), sight-seeing and other tourist amenities.
Difficult transport conditions inhibit tourist activities elsewhere and
impede access to places of interest. Both the East Coast Road with its
rugged shoreline, the surf-breaking coral reef, a fresh water spring from
a rock cave and beaches and the Central Cross Island Road with its mountain
views, a picturesque waterfall and being the shortest route from Apia to
the attractive south coast, have great scenic value and are likely to be
increasingly used by tourists, once they are improved.



- 20 -
Economic Justification
5.05            The civil works proposed for the two roads are to meet short to
medium term traffic requirements and to eliminate storm and storm water
damage to the roads and adjacent properties. Depending on traffic growth,
further upgrading (strengthening of pavement on the eastern half of the East
Coast Road and the Afiamalu-Siumu section of the Central Cross Island Road)
will be warranted in, say, 5 to 10 years after completion of construction.
The upgrading of the Afianalu-Siumi section of Central Cross Island Road
will be the major future investment and economically justified in about 1986.
5.06      The main quantifiable benefits of the proposed improvements are
savings in vehicle operating costs, reductions in road maintenance and
repair costs and avoidance of property damage and these have been used in
the economic evaluation. In addition, there will be benefits due to the
elimination of traffic interruptions caused by floods and substandard road
conditions, to a reduction in traffic accidents, to time savings of transport
users and reduced spoilage of agricultural exports. Moreover, the construc-
tion of public facilities by the SPDC will further the Government's objectives
of carrying out priority works in its development plan at reasonable cost
(paras. 3.14 and 3.15) and creating new jobs for its growing labor force,
including on-site training (para 3.11); but all these additional benefits
are too difficult to quantify and have not been included. Total benefits,
therefore, are conservative.
5.07      Traffic volumes in 1973 on the project roads (Table 8) were
established on the basis of the counts carried out by the Government,
Pak-Poy (para 1.03) and ENEX between May 1972 and February 1974. With
villages rather evenly spread along the East Coast Road, traffic declines
gradually from 920 vpd near Apia to 170 vpd at Falefa. On the Central Cross
Island Road, traffic varies between 790 and 450 vpd in the Vailima-Afiamalu
section, which is becoming increasingly urbanized, and then drops to a level
of 150 vpd along the remainder of the road. Both Pak-Poy and ENEX projected
future traffic on the basis of a gravity model, using forecasts of population,
veihicle ownership and production in the different parts of the island and
estimates of existing and future travel times to Apia. Pak-Poy arrived at
traffic growth rates between 11 andl 13% p.a.; ENEX at 15 to 18% p.a. for the
initial years and 8 and 9% p.a. for the longer term. These figures seem too
iiigti in view of the increases in transport costs since completion of the
studies and in view of the outlook of the Samoan economy in general. In
order not to overestimate benefits, more conservative growth rates of 7% p.a.
for the Last Coast Road and 8% p.a. for the Central Cross Island Road have
been assumed up to the tenth year after construction and a uniform 5% growth
tihereafter.
5.08      Pak-Poy and ENEX estimated operdting costs of different types of
vehicles on existing and improved roads on the basis of surveys of transport
companies and fleet operators. Tihese data were updated for current cost



- 21 -
increases and adjusted to take into account some increase of present travel
speed of 20 to 25 km/h by road rehabilitation and maintenance (Table 8).
Road rehabilitation and maintenance are required to reduce the rate of
deterioration of the roads. The estimated savings in vehicle operating
cost per km range between WS12.1 and WSd3.5, or 35% to 48% of existing
costs, for light vehicles; and between WSJ4.5 and WS48.6 or 42Z to 51%
of existing costs, for heavy vehicles.
5.09      The proposed works include protective measures against foreshore
erosion (East Coast Road) and storm water erosion (Central Cross Island Road).
Economic benefits directly attributable to these measures are (i) the avoided
cost of repairing and rebuilding the roads after heavy storms and rains, and
(ii) avoided damage to private properties along the roads. The foreshore
protection on the East Coast will eliminate damage from storms with a frequency
of less than 10 years. On the basis of hydrological studies and field surveys,
the consultants estimated that, without the foreshore protection, there would
be continuous erosion by normal wave action of some 10,000 m3 per year along
the 9 km endangered stretch valued at over WS$10,000. In addition, storms
with a 5-year frequency would wash out about a quarter of this length of road
and, conservccively estimated, cause some WS$20,000 property damage to about
60 ha of village and farm land alongside. The provision of adequate longi-
tudinal and transverse drainage to control storm water run-off for the moun-
tainous Central Cross Island Road will stabilize the existing roadway and
avoid roadway and embankment washouts after heavy rains, averaging the
equivalent of almost 0.5 km every year. Related storm water damage to private
property of about WS$5,000 p.a. will also be avoided.
5.10      The streams of total economic benefits and costs are given in Table
10. The economic life of the improvements of the East Coast Road (including
some pavement strengthening of the east half of the road in later years)
and the Vailima-Afiamalu section of the Central Cross Island Road has been
estimated at 20 years. The Afiamalu-Siumu section of the Central Cross
Island Road will only be sealed with a single bituminous surface treatment
and it has been judged that strengthening of the pavement and further
upgrading will be required around 1986. Consequently, the economic benefits
of the proposed improvements have been terminated in that year and the
residual value of these works (calculated as the costs that would be avoided
for the construction of an upgraded road) was added to the benefits. Since
engineering and design work carried out on East Coast and Central Cross
Island Roads in 1973 and 1974 is required for the execution of the proposed
project, the economic rates of return are calculated with and without these
design and engineering costs for these years. The economic rates of return
including the expenditures in 1973 and 1974 are 16% for the East Coast Road
and 14% for the Central Cross Island Road; if the 1973 and 1974 costs are
excluded, the economic rates of return are 24% and 16% respectively. The
first year return would be 18% for the East Coast Road and 13% for the
Central Cross Island Road. The sensitivity of the rates of return has been
tested by assuming a 10% increase of all costs and simultaneously a 20%
decrease of benefits. Under these pessimistic assumptions, the rates of
return would still be a satisfactory 17% and 11%. The project is thus
economically justified.



- 22 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations, natisfactory assurances were received
from the Government on the following principal points:
(a) the plans for improving transport planning and data
collection within the EDD and the PWD (para 3.12);
(b) the technical and financial details of the five-year
program to improve highway maintenance which is being
financed under Australian bilateral aid (para 3.20);
(c) the adequacy of the SPDC's equipment purchases (and
delivery dates) in relation to the requirements of
the project construction timetable, key supervisory
staff, arrangements for training equipment operators
and longer-term work program in relation to the
Government's five-year development plan (paras 4.09
- 4.11).
6.02      As New Zealand bilateral aid will be financing the full costs of
consulting services to supervise construction, a condition to the effective-
ness of the proposed credit is a final contract for such services, satis-
factory to the Association (para 4.04).
6.03      The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$4.4 million to
the Government of Western Samoa on the usual terms.



TABLE 1L
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Public Highway Network (1968-1973) *
(Length in Km)
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973
A. Island of Upolu
(i)  Permanent Roads (Paved) A        119    119    119    129    132    140
(ii)  Improved Roads /2                152    152    169    169    194    186
(iii)  Unimproved Foad9 /3               13      13     13     16      16     16
Subtotal A       284    284    301    314    342    342
B. Island of Savaii
(i)  Permanent Roads (Paved) /1       nil    nil    nil    nil        8     16
(ii)  Improved Roads /2                242    242    242    242    234    226
(iii)  Unimproved Roadas/3              nil    nil    nil    nil    nil    nil
Subtotal B       242    242    242    242    242    242
Total A and B    526    526    543    556    584    584
/1 Generally constructed to a 3.5 to 6.5 m width with a two coat bitumen surface
dressing. Included in these figures are about 65 km of municipal roads,
mainly in Apia.
/2 All-weather roads of varying width and with surfaces of gravel or selected
gravel-sand-clay. Included in these figures are about 35 km of municipal
roads, mainly in Apia.
/3 Varying width with surface mainly of natural soil and generally suitable for
use only in dry weather.
* In addition, there were in 1973 226 km of private plantation roads (194 km
on Upolu) which are generally open for public use and which mostly belong
to the "improved" category.
Source: Public Works Department, March 1974
February 1975



TABLE 2
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Importation of Mbtor Fuel (1965-1973) A
(IV0 Liters)
Gasoline        Diesel Fuel
1965                          6,077              2,918
1969                          5,790              3,442
1970                          6,049              4,363
1971                          6,877              6,345
1972                          6,522              6,658
1973                          7,622              8,467
Average Growth Rates (% p.a.)
1965-1970                      0.0                8.5
1970-1973                      8.0               25.0
/1 The figures represent total consumption of gasoline and
diesel fuel. Consumption on roads is not recorded
separately.
Source: Collector of Customs, March 1974
February 1975



TABLE 3
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations (1965-1973)
Private and                          Government
Commercial Vehicles                       Vehicles
Cars &    Trucks     Motor
Taxis     & Buses    Cycles       Total            All Types
A.  Western Samoa
1965            615        715        81        1,411               153
1969            889        736       147        1,772                168
1970            894        863       177        1,934                202
1971          1,013 /h   1,068 1    175         2,256                222
1972          1,087      1,255       180 A      2,522 A              221
1973          1,036      1,524       148 -      2,708                219
Average Growth Rates (% p.a.)
1965-1970       7.8        3.8       16.9         6.5                5.7
1970-1973       5.0       21.0       -6.0        11.9                2.7
B. Upolu Island
1965            603        590        81        1,274               130
1969            847        632       145        1,624               142
1970            858        774      173         1,805               178
1971            995 /1     920 /    168         2,083               182
1972          1,084      1,050       174 /1     2,308 A              205
1973          1,033      1,307       141 -      2,481               183
Average Growth Rates (% p.a.)
1965-1970       7.3        5.6       16.4         7.2                6.5
1970-1973       6.4       19.1       -6.5        11.2                0.9
/1 Mission estimates, based on data provided by Department of Statistics.
Source:  Department of Police and Prisons, March 1974
February 1975



TABLE 4
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Revenue from Road User Charges (1971-1972)
(WS$'000)
Import and Primage Duties on:                    1971       1972
Gasoline /                                         224       222
Diesel Fuel /2                                      46        48
Motor Vehicles
Trucks, Buses, Vans
and Chassis therefor                             154       155
Other Vehicles Including
Passenger Cars                                   118        94
Parts, Fittings, etc.                               51        57
Registration Fees                                   78        83
Total Road User Revenues        671       659
Total All Tax Revenues       4,645      5,521
/1 Assuming 90% of total gasoline consumption is on roads.
/2 Assuming 50% of total diesel fuel consumption is on roads.
Source: Customs Department and Treasury, March 1974
February 1975



.A31LE g
WEST04 SAMOA
UIPRS'i hIGHWAY PROJECT
AWINL BWIget All3ocations L972-1974) /1
1972 /2         1973 /2         1974
RIoadc ',in iitenaice /3
hout, n'v Maintenance and Fepairs        142.0           159.2           217.0
Periodic Yiintenance                        4.5             2.5             7.5
Subtotal                       i146.5          161.7           224.5
ibad QOiastructio.a aid l  ov   nt
Bridges and seawalUs                       26.0            27.5             1.5
:Roads                                   251.5             76.5           115.0
'ACeat Coast Road A                      120.0           120.0              5.0
Fast Coast Road                              -            300.0 /5        280.0
Subtotal                       397.5           524.0           44I.5
Total                         544.0            685.7           666.o
/1  fudget al'Locat.ions normally exclude foreign loans and grants; however,
in the years 1972 to 1974, the total cost of major projects was covered
by budget allocations.
'  Adjusted for supplementary budgets and revotes.
*/3  Only partial allowance for equipment depreciation is included.
A/4 30% of allocatiorn for ?aleolo Airport and Road Project.
/5  Not all budgeted funds were spent; transferred to 1974.
Source:  hidget Books, Marenh 1974
February 197h



TABLE 6
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for Pro.iect Roads
Central Cross Island Roau'
(1)      (2)      (3)        W
East Coast Road          3.00 krA  3.45 km  6.01 km  5,25 xia
Terrain
Design Speed (kma/h)             50                  50        60       70  7~     '
Maximum Grade (%):
(a) Desirable                   8                  10        10       10       1C
(b)  Minimum                   10                  12       12        12
Minimum Radius (a5):
(a)  Desirable                100                 100      140       190      190
(b)  Minimum                   80 (5)              90        90       75
Width of Roadway (a)              7.5                  7.5      7.5      6.5        s2
Width of Surfacing (m)            5.5                 6.5       5.5      5.0
Width of Shoulders (m)            1.0                 0.5       1.0      0.75)    o.
Surfacing                 Double Surface           Double   Double   Single   Si4at,'io
Treatment                Surface  Surface  Surface  3:ae
Treat-   Treat-   Treat-   $rez,,
ment     ment      ment 
.Structure Design
Loading                 H20-S16-44                         H20-S16-44
Pavement Design Method   As used by the New Zealand Ministry of Works in
Publication FW 62/36/12 June 1969.
(1) Vailima to Tiapapata.
(2) Tiapapata to Afiamalu.
(3) Afiamalu to Tiavi.
(4)  Tiavi to Siumu.
(5)  Reducible to 20 m to minimize excavation of rock bluffs.
Source: Eh'EX and Public Works Department, January 1975
February 1975



TABLE 7
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                         at End of Quarter
'Ms$ '000)
FY75
March 31, 1975                                           310
June 30, 1975                                            550
FY76
September 30, 1975                                     1,100
December 31, 1975                                      1,430
March 31, 1976                                         1,740
June 30, 1976                                          2,120
FY77
September 30, 1976                                     2,460
December 31, 1976                                      2,760
March 31, 1977                                         3,080
June 30, 1977                                          3,470
FY78
September 30, 1977                                     3,810
December 31, 1977                                      4,150
March 31, 1978                                        14,280
June 30, 1978                                          4,330
FY79
September 30, 1978                                     4,350
December 31, 1978                                      4,380
March 31, 1979                                         4,4oo
February 1975



TABLE 8
WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic on Project Roads
- (Vehicles per Day)
I.   East Coast Road
Year          Vehicle Type              Km 0.0 to 14.2           Km 14.2 to 23.6
1973                                         685                       285
Cars                         68                         14
Taxis                        63                         14
Pick-ups                    240                        115
Trucks                      164                         68
Buses                       150                         74
1977                                         900                       370
1981                                       1,180                       490
1986                                       1,650                       690
1991                                       2,110                       880
1996                                       2,690                     1,120
II. Central Cross Island Road
Year          Vehicle Type             Km 0.0 to 6.45           Km 6.45 to 17.71
1973                                         620                       150
Cars                        149                         26
Taxis                        62                        30
Pick-ups                    285                         75
Trucks                       62                         12
Buses                        62                          7
1978                                         870                        210
1979                                         980                        240
1983                                       1,340                        320
1988                                       1,970                      (480)
1993                                       2,510                       (610)
1998                                       3,200                       (780)
Source: Pak-Poy, ENEX and mission estimates, March 1974
February 1975



TABLE 9
WESTEIN SAMOA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costa /1
(WSO per km)
Trucks      Buses
Cars      Taxis      Pick-Ups       (5 Ton)   (30 Pass.)
I.   East Coast Road
Existing Road     5.75        6.57        5.75          10.62      13.15
Improved Road     3.70        4.24        3.53           6.10       7.56
Saving            2.05        2.33        2.22           4.52       5.59
I.   Central Cross Island Road
Km 0.0 to Km 6.45
Existing Road     6.oo        6.87        6.11          11.17      13.84
Improved Road     3.89        4.44        3.82           6.65       8.23
Saving            2.11        2.43        2.29           4.52       5.60
Km 6.45 to Km 17.71
Existing Road     6.90        7.88        7.28          13.61      16.87
Improved Road     3.89        4.44        3.82           6.65       8.23
Saving            3.01        3.44        3.46           7.03       8.64
/1 Excluding taxes.
Source: Mission estimate on basis of data provided by
Pak-Poy, ENEX and Government, March and October 1974
February 1975



WESTERN SAMOA
FIRST HlGHt7AY PROJECT
E.tinated COsts and Benefits
(wS$ '000)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Pro-ect Elemwnt
1. Ea.t Cocon Road (23.6 kl)
Bennfits                                   _         _      100.0   100.0   312.6   258.1   274.7   324.3   378.1   328.1   349.6   405.4   463.7   419.7   439,8   494.8   549.8   502,9   527.1   586.3   646.0   603.9   633.1   697.8
Vehicle Oper-ting Cost Savin.s                                               207.6   222.1   237.7   254.3   272.1   Z91.1   311.6   333.4   356.7   381.7   400.8   420.8   441.8   463.9   487.1   511.5   537.0   563.9   592.1   621.8
Avoided Hi ghwsy Msiteo6nc-
aoded IOge G     it.  L roc.o o o                                          105.0    36.0    37.0    70.0   106.0    37.0    38.0    72.0   107.0    38.0    19 0            0.0   128,^..  46.4    /b.u   109.0    40.0    41.0    76.0
CcZts                                      160.0   387.1   826.8   593.1    53.6    13.0    13.5    14.0    14.5    15.0    15.5    16.0    85.0    15.50    15.    16.0    16.5    1720   200.0    16.0    16.5    17.0    17.5    18.0
Right-of-W.y                                35.0    44.0      7.0    17.0
Conntrsct-tn                                50.0   260.8   576.0   650.1   150.0
S.pervien, Engineergin                      82.5   112.2    40.4    10.0       3.0      2.0
Miontenoc                                     -        -       -        -      7.0    13.0    13.5    14.0    14.5    55.0    15.5    16.0    85.0 /2 15.0    1.5 ,    16.0    16.5    17.0   200.0 ., 16.0    16.5    17.0    17.5    18.0
IT.  Central Cro-- Isl.nd Rood (17.7 kS)
Benefit.                                     _                               132.0   182.6   164.0   201.2   185.4   188.6   238.5   206.3   239.0   866.0   134.6   144.3   202.9   157.8   165.0   213.7   193.6   189.0   238.8   209.0   230.8                     267.9
Vehicle Oper-ting Coot Savings                -        -       -        -        -    102.6   109.0   111.2   126.4   136.6   147.5   159.3   172.0   185.0   121.6   131.3   137.9   144.8   152.0   159.7   167,6   176.0   184.8   194.0   203.8   213.9
Avoided Hi gh~sy l8int--nc
sed Other-    s cos 4s A                             -       -             132.0    80.0    55.0    90.0    59.0    52.0    91.0    47.0    67.0   246.0    13.0    13.0    65.0    13.0    13.0    54.0    26.0    13.0    54.0    15.0    27,0   594.0
Residul V.I.e of Seeled Secti-o                                                                                                                            435.0
Costa                                       12.0    92.0   233.0   696.0   205.0    53.0    15.7         8.4      8.8      9.2     9.6    10.0    10.2    30.0        4.0     4.1      4.2      4.3      4 L    30.0      4.       4.4      4.5      4.6   _4.7    35.0
Right-ef-W.y                                           .      12.0    16.0   138.0    11.0
Conatrotioo                                          20.0   210.0   650.0   120.0
Smperoinio-, Eni.neereie /5                 12.0    72.0    11 0    30.0    47.0    38.0         7.7
nintfat.n.e                                   -        -                -        -      4.0      8.0     8.4      8.8      9.2      9.6    10.0    10.2    30.0 /2  4.0        4.1     4.2       4.3     4.4    30.0       4.3     4.4      4.5      4.6     4.7    35.0
j Other nests inelude stem deaage to read and property, and ero-ion of shoreline.
2  1nclude  rese.ling of pavement.
7   Includes resealing of pavement and pavemesnt atrmngthening of stern hSlf of read.
/4 Other costa iselude stem water damage tE road end property, and residunl value of
the Iatter costs far road sectien Aflaslu-Siuoi.
/5  Enel.des nests not directly roated to the project.
Source:  Gvowreno t, UfE  and mission estimates.
Maroh and October 1974, snd Jsnnary 1975
Febr.ary 1975



WESTERN SAMOA: FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND THE SPECIAL PROJECTS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (SPDCi
| MINISTER      I
L OF WORKS      I
C>wX =   D         I   ~~~PUBLIC WORKS   I                                                                                                       -AtS     PC'IRN
I DEPARTMENT   I                                                             I                  I
|  DIRECTOR     I                                                                   BOARD       I
|SENIO RC VI  O                           R                                      |      ANAER 
S   -                          1  TROLLER I                                                                    I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENGINEER CII
DESIGN &    CONSTRUCTION       COSRCTO
ENGINE RINGCONTRACTS &M' NNE#ACUTN  
ICONSULTANCY II BIDN                                                       
I        I  X ~~~~ER     I CES 
|   |           |                                               ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~STO REN                                         CONSTRUCTIO_
-|  SENWOR  I    1      [        $               W~~~~~~~~~IATEIR  I                   LRKS                                                    SUPERINTENDENT_
CARPENTRY,                                                                                                                                                    FOEE .FIAC    | , ERH ORK
SECHANICL NT|  WRSUPINEDENT  E{   SCION                                                                                                                       P  PRTR     AVEMENT,
ROAD GANGS 131                                                                                                                         & LAOER                 RIOGES
-~~~~ ~~ |~. TDMNTRATION                                                                                            LA2!
ASAU-         O~~VERSEER    I                E:C.TIO    IP
PL ANT a MACHINERY, 
QU ARRY, BRIDGES,                                                                    VYRSO I1[ W                                    {
ROAD MAINTENANCE &                                                                        
SEALING. DREDGINGI                                                                                                 
J..U.'V 1975 |n!  
World 13ank-6789(R)






ccj rO .QTDLL                                                                             OOOUL                                                                        tNVlV3ZM3NI  AaupA
8 zt                     Sd~~~~~3i3WO1I)I                                                                                                       vt300Joxd110              i          >VllVdlSllV 
cc maNVs                                          W                                                                                                           IllHVl
o0          5                                                                                                                                  o8ed vowvs Nd1S3Mi  VIS3NOONI
V3NIf9 M3NVfldVd
NV3)-O -)/d4/JVd' H-Inos
S3NIddfilHd  -
ePedej _e;n
.OOot  ~   .~,ois                                 &~a~O3--,  ~                                                    flO~tLIVMV4                                NV~O3IKWdHlION             NVMIVia
!1t t  t;  tX  n 1 o d ;   ~~~~~$-                                                                                                                       NY3 0t1;so,i At>JIWVII H =6O
(VNIH3
gawewe                                                                              'V 'S 'n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                      NVdVt
AVGS07V        97                      b'.OIVA'lbVy    YNOILt'AT73    <       A!eAI 
s)lej e pte   /  nde nin < rnd.dg!)          al el    o dedieA        t                                    oz;ut                  Woweflrm ipw gWqRftri04   8ot
to S   O                                     pNONW  J. 0p dmw sqs uo uMiOt gairpunq I1UL
eeleOWtl                                           la 1  e  z ;    nue!law  17SI V#W7dSV
NV32O S)1/iVd HI?OS'                                 e@onftaoa                            a<3tP
SUGAW ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      ~    ~     In                    ll      p       ,                        E                                el
U    OOvN   V3A`8d NK -\
.SU0rOS 5 M89 8,                                                                                                      C             dt    
SUVO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 i~~~~~~~~~~3~~~~~~O~~~~ns/dU
SiVoOU (13A08dWl                                                                              Wnn/lles    ohloGl|                                  ns                      \
561VO08 3AW                                                                                              !InodilEA Adp
sov08o 1:33rOUd\                                                                                                                  /
1DIfOO d AVMHOIH lSUIA
vOv4VS N83193M
Sestt         t                                              t                                              Fe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOL



