CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 535 WSO
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
WESTERN SAMOA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 19, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 535 WSO
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
WESTERN SAMOA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 19, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 1975, between WESTERN SAMOA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "SPDC" means the Special Projects
Development Corporation established by the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand
dollars ($4,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the works and
services (other than consultants services) for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on September 1
and March I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each September 1 and March 1 commencing
September 1, 1985, and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall (i) carry out the Project through SPDC
with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices; and under the supervision of experienced and
competent personnel and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose; and (ii) until the Closing
Date, cause SPDC to furnish to the Association full details of the qualifications
and experience of all senior personnel who may be engaged by SPDC after the
date of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the supervision of the road
reconstruction and improvement specified in Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall engage engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree the Borrower
shall employ SPDC for the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿5
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that it will cause all goods
imported by SPDC for the purpose of carrying out the Project, which are financed
directly or indirectly out of the proceeds of the Credit, to be insured against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and that for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
ensure that all goods and services financed directly or indirectly out of the proceeds
of the Credit will be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Association to be furnished,
promptly upon their preparation, with the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall cause 3PDC to maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the design
standards for the roads specified in Part A of the Project shall be those set forth
or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate


﻿6
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of SPDC and of the other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause its equipment for road
maintenance to be reasonably maintained and repaired and shall ensure that there
are adequately equipped workshop facilities suitably located for this purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause its road system to be reasonably maintained
and repaired in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
this purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities adequate
to collect and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and
procedures, such information concerning road traffic, road construction and road
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for the proper planning of the
maintenance, improvement and extension of its road system.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take the action necessary to ensure that
the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its road system are consistent with
the structural and geometric design standards of such roads.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have
engaged engineering consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date May 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03
and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Financial Secretary of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Financial Secretary
Treasury Department
Government of Western Samoa
Apia, Western Samoa
Cable address:
FINSEC
Apia, Western Samoa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿8
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
WESTERN SAMOA
By /s / F. P. S. Saili
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Road reconstruc-               2,980,000           70% (represent-
tion and improve-                                  ing the estimated
ment (Part A of                                    foreign expendi-
the Project)                                       ture component)
(2)   Unallocated                     1,420,000
TOTAL          4,400,000
2.    The disbursement percentage has been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
expenditures incurred in connection with the reconstruction and improvement of
the section of the East Coast Road specified in Part A(l) of the Project after
March 1, 1974, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $350,000.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentage set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated


﻿10
to Category (1) will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to Category (2), and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable t- such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
tinder such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any of the works or services needed to carry out the Project is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such works or services shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A.    The reconstruction and improvement of:
(1)  About 24 km of the East Coast Road from Apia to Falefa Falls,
and
(2)  About 18 km of the Central Cross Island Road from Vailima
to Siumu.
Part B.    The supervision of Part A of the ProjecL by engineering consultants.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Procurement of Civil Works by Contracts
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, unit price contracts for the
civil works in Part A of the Project shall be negotiated with and awarded to SPDC
by the Borrower.
2.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
A.    Prior to the award of each such contract, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the terms
and conditions of the contract together with an analysis of the negotiated unit
prices for each major work item broken down into components of labor, equipment,
materials and overheads, supported by evidence of recent costs for similar work
items. Additionally, the report shall contain a detailed construction schedule for
major work items, the requirements for and timing of equipment, materials and
staffing to execute the works, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
B.    The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which negotiations were
based.
C.    Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards for Project Roads
Central Cross Island Road
()   (2)        (3)        (4)
East Coast Road          3.00 km    3.45 kin  6. 01 km   S.25 kmn
Design Speed (km/h)               50                   50         60         70        70
Maximum Grade (%):
(a)  Desirable                8                   10         10        10         10
(b)  Minimum                 10                   12         12        12         12
Minimum Raaius (m):
(a)  Desirable              100                  100        140       190        190
(b)  Minimum                 80 (5)               90         90        75         75
Width of Roadway (m)                7.7                  7.5        7.5       6.5        7.2
Width of Surfacing (m)              6.1                  6.5        5.5       5.0        5.5
Width of Shoulders (m)              0.8                  0.5        1.0       0.75      0.85
Surfacing                  Double Surface            Double     Double     Single    Single
Treatment                  Surface   Surface    Surface    Surface
Treat-     Treat-    Treat-     Treat-
ment       ment      ment       ment
Structure Design
Loading              H20-S-16-44                           H20-S-16-44
Pavement Design            As used by New Zealand Ministry of Works in Publication
Method                     PW 62/36/12 June 1969.
(1)  Vailima to Tiapapata.
(2)  Tiapapata to Afiamalu.
(3)  Afiamalu to Tiavi.
(4)  Tiavi to Siumu.
(5)  Reducible to 20 i       to minimize excavation of rock bluffs.


