RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P-322
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do..not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF
INDIA LIMITED
May. 27, 1963



INTERNATIOTIAL BANIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOI*T7`TDATIO:';S OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE ECEGUTIVE DIRECTOUS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IVEVSTME\NT CORPOF?ATIOIT OF
INDIA LDIITED
1.   I submit herewzith the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $30 million
to the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited(ICICI).
PART I - BACKGROUND
2.   The proposed loan would be the Bankts fifth loan to ICICI and thirty-
first to India.   The status of previous loans as of April 30, 1963 is as
follows:
($ Million)
Total Loans, net of cancellation 1/         817.4
of which has been repaid                 124.7
Total now outstanding                       692.7
Amount sold                  75.7
of which has been repaid  53.9            21.8
\Tet amount held by Bank                    670.9
1/ Including $,19.5 million not yet effective and $129.4 million not yet
disbursed.
The Association has now made 13 credits to India totaling $300 million,
including $20 million not yet effective.   As of April 30, 1963, $24.8
million had been disbursed.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTIOM OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
3.   The main features of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:                         ICICI
Guarantor:                        India, acting by its President
Amount:                           $30 million equivalent
Interest, including commission:   Variable - when a part of the loan is
credited to the Loan Account, the
rate of interest charged on that part
will be the Bank's rate current at
the time the credit is made.
Commitment Charge:                3/4 of 1% per annum accruing from
the time the Loan Account is credit-
ed on the amount so credited.
Term of Amortization:             At the time the Loan Account is
credited for each part of the Loan,
the Bank and ICICI will agree on an
amortization schedule for repayment
of such part.   Such amortization
schedules will provide for semi-
annual repayments on June 1 and
December 1 and for final repayment
not later than December 1, 1978.
Purpose:                          To meet foreign exchange cost of
projects to be financed by ICICI.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
The Project
b.   A detailed appraisal of the project is attached (No. 1).
5.   ICICI has become by far the largest development bank associated with
the Bank.   The Bank has made four loans to ICICI since its establishment
in January 1955, in 1955, 1959, 1960 and 1962, totaling $60 rnillion.  Its
total resources of share capital, long-term borrowings, surpluses and
reserves amounted to $122 million equivalent at the end of 1962.    It has
now approved assistance for two hundred projects, involving 183 firms for
a total amount of $127 million.   Of this sum, nearly half is accounted
for by foreign exchange loans, a fourth by rupee loans and the balance by
underwriting operations and direct equity investments.    It is estimated
that the proposed loan together with the balances available from existing
loans will meet ICICI's foreign exchange requirements until the early part
of 1965.



- 3 -
6.     ICICI's management and operations continue to be satisfactory.
ieserves have been strengthened and now amount to 32 per cent of paid-up
share capital and to 6.5 per cent of total investment. Income has been
growing at an average annual rate of about 30 per cent since 1959. The
price of ICICI's shares has reflected this strength and recently reached
par for the first time.
7.     I believe that the Bank should now agree to allow ICICI freedom to
request credits to the Loan Account of up to $2 million for any investment
project without the Bank's prior approval. Since ICICIts present practice
is to limit its foreign exchange investment in any company or group to about
$2 million, only exceptional cases will be submitted to the Bank for prior
approval. It is further proposed that no limit be set on the total amount
of such credits which may be requested out of the Loan. ICICI would continue
to send a full appraisal report and contract for each investment, thus
keeping the Bank fully informed about the purposes for which funds are being
used.
8.     ICICI's financial position is sound and its prospects are good.    It
should be able to meet debt service payments on the proposed loan and other
borrowings as well as to maintain satisfactory dividend payments and allo-
cations to reserves. Its investment portfolio is sound and well diversified.
The recent emergency increase in the profits tax will undoubtedly have some
effect on the finances of ICICI's borrowers, but not to the extent of im-
pairing their capacity to meet obligations to ICICI.
9.     ICICI has requested that the permissible lirmit on its outstanding
debt be increased up to four times its equity. The present agreed limit is
three times equity and although the debt-equity ratio is at present under
two to one, the ratio is expected to exceed the current limit by 1965 and
reach nearly four to one in 1967. In my view, such an increase would not
cause undue risk for the Bank lending to ICICI, and I propose to approve it.
The Economy
10.    An economic report (Sec.M63-75) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 16, 1963. This report, among other matters, was dis-
cussed at the meeting of the Indian Consortium held on April 30 and iiay 1.
These discussions were preliminary to another meeting of the Consortium in
June which will consider aid contributions with a view to meeting India's
foreign exchange requirements in 1963/64, the third year of the Third Plan.
The Consortium recognized the need for providing a larger proportion of aid
as non-project assistance and on terms which will not impose too heavy a
debt repayment burden. Service on present externally held public debt, now
about Th4,000 million, will reach a peak at the beginning of the Fourth Plan,
amrounting to almost one-fifth of the country's current account earnings at
that time.



PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUNENTS AND LEGAL AUTHORITY
11.    Attached are a draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ICICI
(No. 2), a draft Guarantee Agreement between India and the Bank (No. 3),
and the report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement (No. 4). The agreements follow substantially
the same pattern as the Bank's fourth loan for ICICI and other recent loans
for development banks.
PART V - ODlMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEAENT
12.    I am satisfied that the Borrower and the Guarantor will be able to
fulfill their respective obligations under the agreements and that the pro-
posed loan complies with the requirements of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank.
PA,RT VI - RECOIflIENDATIONS
13.    T recommend that the Bank make a loan to the Industrial Credit and
Investmen-t Corporation of India Limited, to be guaranteed by India, in an
amou-t in various currencies ecquivalent to `P30 rrillion with final repayment
not later than December 1, 1978 on such terms and conditions as are specified
in t,-.e attached draft Loan Agreement and draft Guarantee Agreement and that
the Executive Directors adopt a resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No. 5).
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D. C.
May 27, 1963



