CREDIT NUMBER 1838 NIR
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   *0CtD6-3e, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1838 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     CnC)t O-   z S          , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MSE" means the Ministry of State Enterprises of the
Borrower;
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to exchanges of letters dated September 23, 1985 and October 23,
1985, July 29, 1986 and August 20, 1986, and April 22, 1987 and
June 17, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
(d) "Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program" and "Pro-
gram" mean the program referred to in the Preamble to the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association for the Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
Agreement);
(e) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from October 1 to September 30;
(f) "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
(g) "BDRN" means the Banque de Developpement de la
Republique du Niger;
(h) "OPVN" means the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger;
(i) "ORTN" means the Office de Radiodiffusion et T616vision
du Niger;
(j) "DED" means the Direction des Etudes et de la Docu-
mentation of MSE; and
(k) "P.E. Legslation" means the following legislation of
the Borrower on public enterprises:
-    Ordonnances Nos. 86-001 and 86-002, and D6cret No. 86-
002 of January 10, 1986; and
D6crets Nos. 86-120, 86-121, 86-122 and 86-123 of
September 11, 1986.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to four million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special account in BDRN on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prepa-
ration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower: and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and servics charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year,
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1
commencing November 1. 1997 and ending May 1, 2027. Each


﻿-4-
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1,
2007 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms and repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry responsible for Public Enterprises with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish a Public Enterprise Reform Unit (the Unit) at
MSE to assist in the implementation of the Project as described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(b) appoint a Chief of the Unit and five local staff, and
employ an advisor in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement; and
(c) consult with the Association, not later than June 30,
1991 on the opportunity of the integration of the Unit within DED.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall undertake a review in
consultation with the Association not later than September 30,
1989 on the overall PE Legislation.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
for its review and comments not later than December 31 of each
year during the execution of the Project annual work programs of
the Unit and its budget, and shall not make any change thereof
without prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.06. In order to carry out Part F of the Project,
the Borrower shall submit to the Association for approval
proposals for financing of specific Sub-projects within the objec-
tives of the Project with a detailed analysis of the costs of said
Sub-projects.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
not later than December 31, 1987 for review and comments, OPVN's
detailed restructuring program.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿-6-
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the Fiscal Year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to


﻿-7-
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such Fiscal Year, together with thp proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that: D6crets Nos. 84-201 and 84-202 PCMS of December 5, 1984
amended by Ddcret No. 85-146 PCMS of September 27, 1985, or
Arr&t6 No. 0001 MTEP/SEM of June 6, 1986 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Cinditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit have been met;
(b) the Borrower has prepared a revised training program
satisfactory to the Association;
(c) the Unit referred to under Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment has been staffed in accordance with Section 3.03 (b) of this
Agreement, in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(d) MSE's work program for the Fiscal Year 1987-88 has been
approved and is satisfactory to the Association; and
(e) the Borrower has wade budgetary allocations satisfactory
to the Association in its budget for Fiscal Year 1987-88 for the
operations of the Unit referred to under Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12,04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
B.P. 862
Niamey
Republic of Niger
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIPLAN                        5463 NI
Niamey
For the Association:
International DeveloT,ment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By                                6Lffq-e
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            /s5/ R ;cbc,     (   Cd:-t
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, furniture            70,000       100%
and equipment
(2) Training                    1,340,000       100%
(3) Consultants'
services:
(a) for Parts A, B,        1,150,000       100%
C and D of the
Project
(b) for Part E of            540,000       100%
the Project
(4) Operating Costs               130,000       85% for with-
drawals up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 42,000; 60%
for withdrawals
up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent
to SDR 86,000;
and 40% for with-
drawals up to an
aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 130,000


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Goods and services           200,000        100%
for Sub-projects
under Part F of
the Project
(6) Refunding of                 580,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                  290,000
TOTAL                     4,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "operating costs" means all costs associated
with the Unit's operations including salary bonuses and overtime
of personnel, maintenance of vehicles and equipment and office
running costs; and
(b) "Sub-projects" means the execution of any activity
within the objectives of the Project to be identified by the
Borrower and accepted for financing by the Association, in
accordance with Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b)   payments made for expenditures under Category 3 (b),
until a detailed restructuring program of ORTN has been approved
by the Association; and
(c)   payments made for expenditures under Category 5 for a
specific Sub-project unless the Association has approved it.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
formulating and implementing the reforms of the Public Enterprise
Sector Adjustment Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    MSE and the Unit
Strengthening of MSE's capability in exercising its oversight
and control responsibilities in respect of the formulation and
implementation of the Program through advisory services and opera-
tional support from the Unit, the acquisition of office equipment
and vehicles, and the preparation of annual audits by independent
auditors of the accounts of the Project, and of individual
accounts of public enterprises included in the Program.
Part B:    General Sector Reform
1.   Formulation and implementation of detailed divestiture pro-
grams for selected public enterprises.
2.   Review of public enterprises statutes in accordance with P.E.
Legislation and overall evaluation of P.E. Legislation.
3.   Overall evaluation of the performance of the financial
restructuring plan of the sector.
4.   Review of the impact of privatization and other reforms of
the Program.
5.   Studies of the basic constraints of the parapublic sector,
namely in the fields of staff remuneration related to performance,
financial control mechanisms, auditing and accounting norms,
management and information systems, oversight and control
responsibilities, in order to enable the Borrower to prepare and
develop steps to overcome such constraints.
6.   Strengthening the capability of MSE and selected public
enterprises in:
(i) introducing an effective management information
system;


﻿- 13 -
(ii) preparing contrats de programmes for selected
public enterprises; and
(iii) carrying out annual audits of selected public
enterprises.
Part C:   Procurement
Review of the 1985 Procurement Code in order to improve the
efficiency of current procedures, preparation of a procurement
manual and standard bidding documents, and organization of
seminars and training to assist administration and public
enterprise staff in the preparation of documents used in the
procurement of goods and services.
Part D:   Training
Training at the Centre National de Perfectionnement A la
Gestion of public enterprise executives and officials from
ministries responsible for the monitoring and evaluation of public
enterprises' performance.
Part E:   Restructuring of ORTN
Strengthening ORTN's capabilities in the fields of management
and accounting, revision of ORTN's statutes and preparation of the
1988-91 contrat de programme.
Part F:   Other activities: Sub-projects
Studies and other activities to be identified by the Borrower
during Project implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Niger may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Vehicles, furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where


﻿payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts, consultants and a resident
public enterprise advisor whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such experts, consultants and advisor shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
through 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
CFAF 75,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible


﻿- 17 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the


﻿- 18 -
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


