Docent of
The World Bank
FOR OFmaCIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. 12871
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2046-NEP)
MARCH 21, 1994
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
Country Departsent I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1 Rupee  -  100 Paise
1 Rupee - US$ 0.0392
NRs.25.50 - US$ 1.00
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIC                  Agriculture Imports Corporation
CBPASS               Commercial Bank Problem Analyses
and Strategy Study
DOI                  Department of Irrigation
ESAF                 Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility
HMG                  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
NBL                  Nepal Bank Ltd.
OGL                  Open General Licenses
3&M                  Operations and Maintenance
PBPM                 Program Budgeting and Project Monitoring
PFP                  Policy Framework Paper
QRO                  Quantitative Restriction (on Imports)
RBB                  Rastriya Banijya Bank
SAF                  Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan (Credit)
T&T                  Trade & Transit Impasse
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
Fiscal Year (FY) of Borrower
July 15 - July 14



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 21, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 2046-NEP)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Nepal - Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credit 2046-NEP) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the
Borrower.
This project aimed at continuing to support the Govemment's structural adjustment program
initiated under the First Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1769-NEP). To this end, it
encompassed conditionality over a broad front, including tax reform, public expenditures
restructuring, foreign trade liberalization, agricultural sector improvements (distribution of fertilizers,
management of irrigation), and commercial banks strengthening. Since these reforms would require
major institutional improvements and thorough preparation, the credit relied on the future
undertaking of various studies to firm up specific action plans in key areas. The required technical
assistance to conduct and help implement these studies, however, was financed and managed by
other donors, an arrangement that led to serious problems.
Implementation of the project faced several difficult challenges. In addition to the design
problems just described, there were major political changes in the country and severe trade and
transit disruptions with Nepal's principal trading partner. It is remarkable, then, that in spite of such
problems most of the actions contemplated in the program were satisfactorily completed, albeit with
some delays. Macro-economic stability was maintained, some tax and trade policy improvements
were attained, and a start was made towards strengthening fertilizer and irrigation management.
On the other hand, progress in the areas of banking reform, public expenditure controls and tax-
system elasticity was much less than anticipated.
In spite of the shortfalls, the overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, its
institutional development impact as substantial and its sustainability as likely.
The PCR is comprehensive and informative. It presents a full picture and assessment of the
project's implementation experience and outcome. Part II highlights the role of fiscal policy and
stresses the importance of ownership in carrying out a broad based reform program.
Some of the weaknesses of this project (too broad coverage, inclusion of issues which had
not been sufficiently clarified or ironed out) had been identified by OED as shortcomings of the
first Structural Adjustment Credit (OED  Report #9681).  Unfortunately, those lessons of
experience were not learned early enough. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CtIPLEflONI  REPORT
IEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTHMET CREDIT
(CREDIT 2046-REP)
TABLE OF COIITERTS
Page No.
Preface ................................................................
Evaluation Summary .................................................... ii
Part I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ........................1
1.  Project Identity .........................................  1
2.   Background ...............................................  1
3.   Program Objectives and Scope .............................  3
4.   Program Design and Organization .........................    4
S.   Program Implementation ...................................  6
-  Macroeconomic Management ..............................  7
- Revenue Enhancement/Rationalizing
the Revenue System ....................................  9
-   Improving Public Expenditure Management ............... 10
-   Improving Trade Policies .............................. 13
-   Strengthening Financial Sector Institutions ........... 15
-  Agricultural Reforms .................................. 17
6.   Program Sustainability ................................... 20
7.   Social Impact ............................................ 22
8.   IDA's Performance ........................................ 23
9.   Procurement and Auditing ................................. 24
10.   Consulting Services ...................................... 25
Part II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............... 26
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................... 28
- Program-Related Information ................................ 28
- Economic Data .............................................. 29
Annexes:
- Annex I  :  Tranche Release Conditions .................. 47
- Annex II:   Policy Matrix and Implementation Summary .........  49
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2046-UEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit for which Credit 2046-NEP in the sum of US$60.0 million
(SDR46.2 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on June 27, 1989 and
became effective on August 10. 1989.  The Credit Closing date was originally set
on December 31, 1991 but was extended to July 31, 1992. The Credit was fully
disbursed on closure.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance
Division. Country Department 1, South Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III). The Borrower prepared Part II of the PCR and contributed data
for the tables included in Part III.
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission in August 1992 and is based on the Memorandum of the President, the
Development Credit Agreement, related Working Papers, supervision reports and
correspondence between the Borrower and the Association.
Comments were also obtained from the Bank staff who originally identified,
prepared, appraised and subsequently supervised the implementation of the
adjustment program
The PCR has been reviewed by His Majesty's Government of Nepal.   The
Government's comments on Part I and III of earlier drafts have been incorporated
into the PCR as appropriate.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2046-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
(a)         Proiect Obiectives (Para 3.1).  The main objectives of the Credit
were to accelerate economic growth with macroeconomic stability on a sustain-
able basis by improving the allocation of public and financial resources and
increased reliance on the private sector. To this end, the reform program
supported by the Credit aimed at consolidating the policies already adopted
under SAL I and reinforcing the adjustment process through additional mea-
sures, particularly by (i) maintaining sound macroeconomic management;
(ii) enhancing government revenues; (iii) improving public expenditure
management; (iv) encouraging further trade liberalization and expanding
Nepal's trade relations with third countries; (v) strengthening financial
institutions; and (vi) enhancing the role of the private sector in fertilizer
distribution and irrigation management.
(b)         Implementation Experience (Section 5).  Against this background of
a severe disruption in prevailing trade and transit arrangements with Nepal's
principal trading partner - India - and major domestic political changes and
uncertainties, three successive governments remained committed to the reform
program. However, slippages in implementation arose because of: (i) the
inability of the "caretaker" coalition government which was comprised of
different political parties to reach a consensus on policy reforms and take
timely actions; (ii) lack of sufficient commitment to certain aspects of the
reform program; (iii) delays in completing key technical assistance studies
which provided the analytical basis of further reforms to be implemented in
the latter part of the period (e.g., in the financial sector); and (iv)
shortcomings in program design/specification itself. Despite these problems,
however, most of the actions contemplated in the program were satisfactorily
completed, though about 14 months behind schedule.
(c)         Results (paras 5.6. 5.7. 5.8. 5.12. 5.15. 5.16. 5.19. 5.20, 5.24,
5.25. 5.28 and 5.29). The Credit was a qualified success. The most notable
achievements of the adjustment program were: (i) maintenance of macroeconomic
stability in the face of severe external and domestic disruptions, and (ii)
improvements in trade policy (and exchange rate) reforms which surpassed
program expectations. Exports and the foreign exchange reserve position
improved significantly. A good start was also made in improving fertilizer
distribution and irrigation management, and preventing a potential collapse of
the two large government-owned banks (which comprised 95% of banking assets at
the time). However, the more fundamental reforms to restructure the two banks
to ensure their long term viability, increasing the elasticity of the tax
system, and improving public expenditure management were not realized as
anticipated.



- iv -
(d)         Sustainabilitv (Section 6).  The SAL II program helped the
Government to maintain macroeconomic stability and make important gains in a
number of areas in a volatile and uncertain environment. It (as well as SAL I
which preceded it) reinforced the belief among key decision-makers that Nepal
can indeed make significant progress with improved economic policies and
management, and helped to create a strong constituency for policy reforms.
Thus, even though there was some concern and debate about the pace and some of
the aspects of the reform program, there was still reasonably strong commit-
ment to the reform program as a whole. The new Government subsequently
entered into a new ESAF arrangement with the IMF and a fourth year PFP, and
has recently undertaken a number of further important policy reforms, which
have in some areas exceeded the reforms far beyond SAL II expectations. In
addition, the sustainability of the reform process has received a strong boost
from economic liberalization in neighboring India, since Nepal needs to at
least keep in step in many areas. However, Nepal so far has shown willingness
to go even further in a number of areas. On the other hand, effective
implementation of reforms, especially where major institutional changes are
involved, has been a persistent problem. A stronger commitment to address the
implementation/institutional aspects is essential to ensure effectiveness and
sustainability of the reforms.
(e)         FindinRs and Lessons Learned.
(i)   By and large, the SAL II program was satisfactorily implemented
though somewhat behind schedule. Formulated and implemented in an extremely
volatile external and domestic environment, it achieved and even exceeded its
goals in some areas, while falling short of expectations in others. It also
helped to consolidate earlier reforms, and build a strong constituency for
sustaining and accelerating the reform process.
(ii) The delays in implementation were due to a large extent to
unanticipated political developments and the perceived inability of the
transitional government to take necessary decisions to implement the agreed
reforms. In addition, delays in completing the technical studies which
provided the analytical basis for the recommended reforms (as in the case of
the financial sector) contributed to implementation slippages.
(iii) The degree of government ownership of and commitment to the reform
program, with a changing cast of decision-makers at various levels, was an
important factor contributing to the varying degrees of success of the differ-
ent parts of the program. For example, in the financial sector where the
vision of the reform program was not fully shared by the Government, the
reform program was less effective. Similarly, in public expenditure manage-
ment, little enthusiasm at the highest political levels existed for expendi-
ture rationalization; and a strong constituency at the technical level for
some of the proposed institutional changes was also missing. This was also
the case with the irrigation sector where, initially, there was insufficient
commitment for reform. On the other hand, where such commitment or institu-
tional changes were not at issue, progress was much more rapid - e.g., in
trade and exchange rate policy.



-v-
(iv) Implementing reforms where institutional changes were required
were particularly difficult. This was the case with changing AIC's role in
fertilizer management and in operationalizing the new program budgeting and
monitoring mechanisms. Apart from the program ownership issue noted above,
this also reflects the fundamental difficulties of institution-building in
Nepal, which is nothing new. To that extent, the SAL II program itself was
overly optimistic in this regard. In retrospect, it underestimated the delays
and difficulties involved in institution-building and evolving new processes
and procedures in Nepal; in fairness to the authors of the program, they could
not have anticipated the changed political environment and technical assis-
tance problems which occurred.
(v)   In addition, other weaknesses in the design of the program also
contributed to the implementation problems. In particular, since further
reform measures for shaping the future of the banking system were to be
identified on the basis of the outcome of studies to be undertaken during the
program period, it left room for considerable debate and disagreement, and
slippages, especially in a situation where the Government itself was unclear
about the future role of the government-owned banks. Similarly, in the
irrigation sector, the proposed actions were not clearly defined in the
program, and created considerable ambiguities about what a "satisfactory"
level of implementation meant. These problems could and should have been
avoided, if necessary, by leaving out such components of the reform program
which lacked sufficient clarity and specificity.
(vi) In conclusion, the SAL II program was a qualified success. As
noted, it helped Nepal to cope with the Trade and Transit treaty (T&T) impasse
and a series of domestic political changes; and to initiate important reforms
during the program period. Equally important, it built a strong constituency
for future reforms. Among the lessons to be learned from the operation are
that, given the complexities of institution-building in Nepal, it is desirable
to: (i) set realistic objectives about how rapidly institutions can be
improved; (ii) limit the interventions to essential key requirements and (iii)
undertake thorough preparation and follow-up.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2046-NEP)
PART I:  Protram Review From the Bank's Perswective
1.    Project Identity
Name              : Second Structural Adjustment Credit
Credit Number     : 2046-NEP
RVP Unit          : South Asia Region
Country           : Nepal
Sector            : Economic
2.    Background
2.1         With a per capita income of about US$170, Nepal remains one of the
poorest countries in the world. Social indicators remain well below the
average for the South Asia region. Life expectancy at birth is 52 years, and
infant mortality is 128 per 1,000 (1989), and adult literacy stands at only 39
percent. With the population growing rapidly at 2.1-2.6 percent per annum ,
population density with respect to arable land (around 600 persons per square
kilometer) is one of the highest in the world. In a predominantly rural
economy with limited natural resources, population pressure has contributed to
fragmentation of land holdings, declining productivity, widespread poverty and
growing environmental problems. Presently, about 7-8 million of its popula-
tion of 19 million remain below the poverty line. A poor resource endowment,
highly underdeveloped infrastructure even by South Asian standards and a
difficult physical environment (a rugged terrain and land-locked location)
remain serious obstacles to rapid economic development. In addition, a long
and open border with India (which, while conferring significant benefits in
terms of market access and inflows of investment and technology), has in the
past limited Nepal's flexibility in designing and implementing independent
economic policies in such key areas as trade, exchange rates, interest rates
and pricing. (More recently, however, with India moving rapidly to liberalize
its economy and implement structural reforms, this factor has become an
important catalyst, rather than an impediment, for economic reform in Nepal.)
These constraints have been exacerbated by a poor public administration and
weak institutions and a history of ineffective economic management and
inappropriate development policies. Consequently, the economy remains
structurally weak, national savings as well as Government revenues as a
proportion of GDP remain quite low, exports finance only about 40% of imports,
and the country continues to depend heavily on external assistance.
2.2         Emerging from self-imposed isolation in the early 1950s, Nepal
endeavored to construct a modern physical and administrative infrastructure to
1      2.1% according to Government estimates.



promote economic development. However, these efforts were insufficient to
create the basis for rapid development and alleviating poverty. Even though
Nepal did not experience severe macroeconomic imbalances during this period,
the economy continued to operate in a low level equilibrium; and economic
growth barely kept up with population growth. In the early 1980., the
Government resorted to increased public spending (financed to a considerable
degree by domestic bank borrowing) to accelerate the pace of economic growth.
This strategy proved to be unsustainable as fiscal and external deficits
reached 10-12 percent of GDP, and the domestic inflation rate accelerated to
15 percent. Faced with this situation, in the mid-1980s, the Government
adopted a Fund-supported stabilization program beginning in December 1985; and
subsequently undertook a comprehensive structural adjustment program, which
was supported by a three-year SAF arrangement with the IMF and by a structural
adjustment credit (SAL I) by IDA covering the FY87-89 period.
2.3         SAL I sought to provide the transition from economic stabilization
to more rapid development on a sustainable basis by laying the foundations
for structural reform of the economy, while curbing inflation and strengthen-
ing the balance of payments. A GDP growth rate of 4-5% p.a. was targeted. To
this end, SAL I focussed on improving macro-economic management (by enhancing
government revenues and public savings, restraining the growth of less
essential expenditures, and increasing investment levels); promoting agricul-
tural development (by liberalizing input distribution, streamlining the role
of public sector institutions and increasing private sector involvement in
such activities); liberalizing industrial, trade and exchange rate policies
(aimed in promoting export development, gradually freeing up imports and
facilitating private investment and activities); improving management of
public enterprises and initiating a longer term program for privatization; and
strengthening development administration through a series of measures aimed at
improving budgeting, planning and expenditure monitoring. Despite some
implementation delays and shortfalls in some areas (for example, agricultural
reforms and privatization of PEs), the reform program was broadly carried out.
Economic growth and investment levels increased, the inflation rate decelerat-
ed, macroeconomic management improved, and considerable progress was made in
reducing trade restrictions, liberalizing imports and providing incentives to
exports.  The project performance audit report for SAL I2 (which provides a
detailed account of the reform program and its accomplishments) concluded that
"the SAL stimulated major improvements in economic policymaking, ...the
structural adjustment program was sustained even after the economic difficul-
ties occasioned by the March 1989 disruption in the trade and transit treaty
with India" and that "the primary value of the first SAL probably lay in its
demonstration effects: it showed the Government that the Nepalese economy can
indeed be brought out of stagnation if appropriate policy changes are intro-
duced."
2      Project Performance Audit Report, Nepal:  First Structural
Adjustment Credit (Credit 1769-NEP), SecM91-964 dated July 25, 1991.



- 3 -
2.4         The Trade and Transit treaty' (T&T) impasse with India in early
1989 interrupted Nepal's progress and again threatened to undermine macroeco-
nomic stability. The T&T impasse severely disrupted the flow of Nepal's
exports and imports through India, created shortages of essential inputs and
commodities, adversely affected economic activity, investment and growth
prospects, and sharply increased the rate of domestic inflation in the early
part of 1989.  Staff projections at the time indicated that GDP growth would
decline from a pre-crisis estimate of 5% to less than 2% in FY89 and to
virtually zero in FY90, while inflation was expected to accelerate from (a
pre-crisis) 9% to 10% in PY89 and to 14% in FY90. Both the budget and the
balance of payments came under severe pressure. Government revenues were
expected to fall from an estimated (pre-crisis) 11.3% of GDP to 10.0% in FY89
and to 9.8% in FY90.  As a result the overall fiscal deficit was projected to
rise from 9.4% of GDP to 10.5% in FY89 and domestic financing of this deficit
to rise from 1.1% of GDP to 2.2%. In regard to the balance of payments, both
exports and imports were expected to decline sharply; and even through the
external deficit was projected to remain at the pre-crisis level of 10% of
GDP, the reduction in trade flows was expected to create severe dislocations
in the economy.  The T&T impasse, if anything, demonstrated the vulnerability
of Nepal's weak economic structure to external vicissitudes; and underlined
the need for further structural reforms to cope with the consequences of the
crisis in the short term, as well as to steer the economy on to a sustainable
growth path over the medium term.
3.    Proaram Obiectives and Sc2pe
3.1         Against this background, the Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAL II) was intended to support the second phase of the Government's adjust-
ment program over the FY89-FY91 period. The main objective of the program was
to accelerate economic growth on a sustainable basis with macroeconomic
stability by improving the allocation of public and financial resources and
increased reliance on the private sector. To this end, the reform program
supported by the Credit aimed at consolidating the policies already adopted
under SAL I and reinforcing the adjustment process through additional mea-
sures, particularly by (a) maintaining sound macroeconomic management; (b)
improving government revenues and development expenditures management; (c)
encouraging further trade liberalization and expanding Nepal's trade relations
with third countries; (d) strengthening financial institutions; and (e)
enhancing the role of the private sector in fertilizer distribution and
irrigation management.
3.2         SAL II was designed to be disbursed in three equal tranches of $20
million each. The Credit amount of $60 million equivalent was expected to
constitute approximately 11% of the required gross capital inflows during the
3      These treaties had provided duty-free transit over Indian territo-
ry for goods traded between land-locked Nepal and third countries and between
western parts of Nepal itself, in addition to favorable trading arrangements
for Nepal's exports to and imports from India. Moreover, in recent years
(before the T&T impasse) about 40% of Nepal's trade had been with India.



-4-
FY89-91 period, and to finance approximately 5.1% of anticipated imports
during this period.
4.    Program Design and Oraanization
4.1         In terms of design and comprehensiveness, by and large, the focus
of SAL II was appropriate. In light of disruptions caused by T&T impasse, it
focussed on the key areas where strong actions were deemed necessary to
restore macroeconomic stability and accelerate economic growth; i.e., improv-
ing macroeconomic management, fiscal and trade policies, fertilizer policy and
irrigation sector reforms, and ensuring solvency of the banking system.
These were indeed critical areas at the time. However, in retrospect, there
were a number of shortcomings in the program's design and timing:
(a) The reforms envisaged in many of these areas required
major institutional improvements, and considerable ad-
vanced preparation to both agree on the specific content of
the reforms and action plans for implementation. As
against this need for more comprehensive preparation, the
Credit had to carefully balance the need to provide assis-
tance quickly to help the Government cope with the disrup-
tions caused by the impasse. Since the latter option was
chosen, the Credit took the approach of relying on various
T/A studies to firm up the recommendations and action plans
for reforms which were to be implemented later in key
areas, such as the financial sector and the irrigation
sector. This led to considerable vagueness in the condi-
tionality, disagreements about the required reforms and
implementation delays (para 5.25) in these areas.
(b) In light of these weaknesses, it would seem that the pro-
gram tried to do too much; and should have been probably
more narrowly focussed. The reforms in the financial
sector, for example, should have been left until the TIA
studies were completed and the objectives of reform and
specific actions were clearly understood and agreed upon,
to be supported by a separate financial sector operation.
(c) Given the institutional changes envisaged, the Credit
underestimated the time required for these changes. The
Credit envisaged that the action program which commenced in
mid 1989 would be completed by late 1990. In effect,
implementation took considerably (15 months) longer; and
even then, the objectives in regard to institutional chang-
es fell considerably short of expectations (para 5.16).
4.2         The Credit's design with regard to trade Policv reforms was
appropriate. The commitments to gradually shift from QRs and licensing
controls to an OGL/passbook/auction mechanism provided an excellent vehicle
for the transition to a more liberal import regime. The auction mechanism in
particular helped to address the Government's need to liberalize



banned/restricted imports while preventing their diversion to India and to
channel a part of the high economic rents from such imports to the Treasury.
In regard to exports, permitting duty-free access to imports for production of
carpets was achieved satisfactorily by requiring the abolition of import
duties on raw wool. However, establishing a duty draw-back system for other
exports proved to be administratively cumbersome. Fortunately, the Govern-
ment's strong commitment to improved exchange rate management and rapid
progress towards a liberal import regime helped to overcome these deficiencies
(para 5.20).
4.3         In regard to revenue enhancement, the action proposed in the
program were designed to address some of the obvious shortcomings of the tax
system (excessive exemptions from direct taxes and a weak tax administration),
without changing the structura of the tax system itself. This was a proper
approach at that time, given the fact that the preparatory work which is
necessary for changing the tax system had not been undertaken; and the
Government itself was not ready for a more fundamental tax reform. However,
given the rapid pace of implementation of trade policy reform, the significant
loss of revenues associated with tariff reductions and the consequent need to
rapidly develop alternative sources of fiscal revenues were not anticipated.
As a result, the program actions were not sufficient to enhance revenues as
expected (para 5.12).
4.4         In regard to expenditure management, the program focussed on the
key problem areas - poor budget preparation and monitoring and lack of
accountability. However, given the fact that the reforms involved major
institutional and procedural changes with regard to budgeting, accounting and
monitoring, the pace of implementation assumed was too optimistic. The
slippages in implementation were also due to the fact that an effective
Planning Commission did not exist at the time; the technical assistance
studies undertaken for this purpose were not well coordinated and managed
(para 5.16); there was insufficient ownership of the proposed institutional
changes; and the implementation capacity in the country itself was limited.
Greater caution was necessary in setting a time-frame for institutional
changes.
4.5         On the government side, the main organization responsible for the
Credit - the lead agency - was the Finance Ministry. It took the lead in
formulating the Credit, managing key parts of it and supervising implementa-
tion by other concerned government agencies. Major aspects of the program -
revenue mobilization and expenditure management - were direct responsibilities
of the Finance Ministry itself. Nevertheless, some parts of the program in
these areas involved other government agencies and required close collabo-
ration and co-ordination. For example, in regard to revenue reforms, removal
of tax exemptions involved the concurrence of the Ministry of Industries.
Similarly, a number of expenditure reforms, especially those designed to
improve budget planning and monitoring, involved the National Planning
Commission, as well as key line ministries where planning units were to be
strengthened to facilitate preparation of sector expenditure programs and
their monitoring. In the financial sector, the key government institutions
involved were the Nepal Rastra Bank which was the principal interlocutor on
the government side, the two commercial banks which were the targets of the



-6-
reform (RBB and NBL), and the Finance Ministry in a coordinating/supervisory
role. In agriculture, the key organizations involved were: in fertilizer
pricing and management, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural
Inputs Corporation (AIC); and in the case of irrigation sector, the Ministry
of Water and Power and the Department of Irrigation under it; with Finance
Ministry playing a supervisory/coordinating role in both cases.
4.6         This lead agency arrangement with Finance Ministry in overall
charge worked reasonably well. It enabled the Bank to deal with one institu-
tion - the Finance Ministry - as the focal point in case of implementation
delays. However, it did not prevent implementation delays from occurring even
in areas which were the direct responsibility of the Finance Ministry (e.g.,
expenditure management), as well as in areas handled by other agen-
cies/ministries (e.g., financial sector, irrigation). The reasons for these
shortfalls, however, were not the organizational arrangements for the Credit
outlined above, but other problems identified below.
5.    Program Implementation
5.1         The Credit became effective on August 10, 1989 shortly after the
Credit Agreement was signed; and the first tranche was released on effective-
ness. The release of the second tranche (which was originally scheduled for
October 1989) took place on March 08, 1990. The fulfillment of the second
tranche conditions was deemed satisfactory, although the tranche release, as
noted, was delayed by six months. The review mission initially (in October
1989) found that even though the specific conditionality for the release of
the second tranche were fulfilled, (this required that the Government (a)
establish a satisfactory medium-term policy framework and (b) adopt a flexible
fertilizer pricing policy which would at least ensure parity of domestic
prices with those at the Indian border), the regulations aimed at liberalizing
fertilizer dealership policy were not being implemented effectively. Correc-
tive action, however, was taken subsequently. The release of the third
tranche (originally scheduled for November 1990) was also delayed, due to the
late completion of technical assistance which underpinned the formulation of
key recommendations for reform of the financial sector and slippages in the
implementation of key irrigation sector actions. These were however satisfac-
torily completed subsequently; and the third tranche was released on March
1992 and was fully disbursed by August 17, 1992.
5.2         SAL II was complemented by a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and an
IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) arrangement which covered the same
period. The final disbursement under the SAF program was made in the late
1990; and in early 1991, the Fund Board reviewed the Government's overall
performance under the SAF program and found it to be satisfactory. Subse-
quently, in late 1992 the Government negotiated a new Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the Fund and a fourth year PFP
with the Fund and the Bank; these provide a framework for continued economic
reform and adjustment, and are currently under implementation.
5.3         The following sub-sections outline the key macroeconomic targets
(macro framework) of SAL II and, for the major program areas, the specific



actions that were to be taken (intent), together with details of their
subsequent implementation before and after the tranche release (performance),
and IDA's assessment of their impact (results) and sustainability.
5.4         Macroeconomic Management.  Macroeconomic policy reforms in SAL II
were aimed at maintaining macroeconomic stability (to provide an environment
conducive to increased private and public investment and economic activity)
and strengthening the fiscal and balance of payments positions through reforms
in three key areas: (a) enhancing government revenues, (b) improving public
expenditure management, and (c) improving trade policies. Given the uncer-
tainties at the time of program formulation, SAL II required that an appropri-
ate policy framework paper (PFP) covering the program period be finalized as a
condition of second tranche release. This PFP subsequently set out specific
targets for key macro variables (including the external and fiscal deficits,
government's domestic borrowing and inflation) against which performance was
to be broadly measured (see Table 1).
5.5         During the SAL II implementation period (FY90-92), macroeconomic
management has been satisfactory, despite the fact the Nepal was beset by
severe external and domestic shocks. Apart from the T&T impasse in 1989 noted
earlier, Nepal also went through an extended period of domestic political
uncertainty during its successful struggle to establish a parliamentary
democracy during FY90 and FY91. Notwithstanding these disruptions and
uncertainties, three successive governments, including the interim coalition
government, remained committed to maintaining macroeconomic stability.  And,
although the progress was uneven in the key areas of reform (for example, the
Government was able to make rapid progress in trade policy reforms, but less
so in fiscal reforms - see below), macroeconomic stability was maintained.
The new Government which took over power in May 1991 demonstrated a strong and
renewed commitment to improving macroeconomic management and implementing
structural reforms. As noted, it agreed on a new ESAF arrangement and PFP
with the IMF and IDA covering the FY93-95 period; and has begun to implement
further far-reaching reforms in a number of key areas, such as industrial and
trade policies, exchange rate reforms, public enterprise and public adminis-
tration reforms, etc. (Section 6).
5.6         In regard to the balance of payments, Nepal's exports, which were
expected to decline by about 20% in US dollars terms, actually increased
modestly by 10% in FY90, and accelerated sharply by 30Z in FY91 and by a
further 33% in FY92, far more rapidly than anticipated in the SAL II program.
The reform measures implemented during the program clearly contributed to this
rapid growth. On the other hand, import growth, though more uneven, was also
higher than projected in the SAL II program. The external current account
deficit remained below the levels anticipated in the program in FY89 and FY90,
and rose slightly above the target level in FY91 and FY92; this was, however,
fully financed by inflows of external aid and other capital. Nepal's gross
foreign exchange reserves continued to grow steadily, (in part reflecting
unanticipated capital inflows, including cross-border trade) from US$316
million in FY89 to about US$550 million in FY92, i.e., the equivalent of about
7 months imports, significantly exceeding the program target of 5 months'
import equivalent.



-8-
5.7         In regard to fiscal management, the implementation performance
produced mixed results. Although, specific measures to augment government
revenues were satisfactorily implemented, the revenue/GDP ratio did not
improve as envisaged (para 5.12). At the same time, popular demands for wage
increases, continued subsidization/price controls and rising debt service
payments contributed to higher recurrent expenditures and fiscal pressures.
The Government, therefore, resorted to restraints on overall expenditures,
particularly development spending, in order to limit the fiscal deficit.
Notwithstanding these efforts, the overall fiscal deficit initially increased
substantially over the program target of 9-10% of GDP to approximately 11-13Z
range in FY89 and FY90; and net domestic financing (averaging around 3.0% of
GDP per annum in these two years) also exceeded program targets. In the
ensuing two years - FY91 and FY92 - the government brought the overall budget
deficit to around 8Z of GDP (below the program targets) and reduced domestic
borrowing to a range of 0.5Z-1.8% of GDP. This was, however, accomplished
largely by slowing down development spending; and as a result, both project
implementation and aid utilization deteriorated, contrary to the expectations
of the SAL II program.
5.8         Economic growth performance significantly exceeded' the program
targets of -2.2% for FY90 and 3.0% for FY91, respectively. Favorable weather
conditions for agricultural crops and the easing of transit restrictions by
India after the early months of the trade and transit impasse (enabling
continued availability of essential inputs) contributed to this improved
economic performance. Increased agricultural production, together with higher
than expected imports (facilitated by the improvements in trade policy) also
helped to contain domestic inflation to the targeted levels -- around 12% in
FY90 and 10% in FY91. In FY92, however, poor crops due to bad weather
contributed to slower GDP growth (of only 2.52); and along with the impact of
a series of key price adjustments and a major devaluation of the exchange rate
in Nepal (as well as in neighboring India), to a one-time increase in the
inflation to an annual rate of 20%. As these price adjustments worked
themselves out, and with continued tight macroeconomic management in Nepal and
the abatement of price pressures in neighboring Indian border states, the
inflation rate has again come down to around 8-9% in FY93.
5.9         In summary, overall macromanagement has been reasonably satisfac-
tory. The balance of payments position, in particular exports and foreign
exchange reserves, have continued to strengthen, as the SAL II program helped
Nepal to overcome the adverse effects of the T&T impasse and subsequent
turmoil. Domestic investment and savings levels, after falling in the wake of
the T&T impasse, had recovered to nearly pre-crisis levels by FY92. Macroeco-
nomic stability continued to be maintained, indicating strong government
4      Original Government estimates of GDP growth for FY90 and FY91 -
3.6% and 4.0% respectively - have been recently revised upwards to 6.1% and
5.5% (see Table 1). However, ongoing studies by the Government indicate that
these recent estimates are subject to methodological errors; and substantially
overstate actual growth. Consequently, these estimates are now being reviewed
by the Government; and it is likely that both agricultural and overall GDP
growth for FY90 and FY91 would come down closer to original estimates.



- 9 -
commitment to this objective. The major disappointment in this area has been,
however, with fiscal management, where program achievements fell significantly
below expectations in many respects (see below).
5.10        Revenue Enhancement/Rationalizinf the Revenue System. Reforms in
this area were aimed at increasing revenue elasticity and efficiency of the
tax system by widening the tax base and improving tax administration. To this
end, the SAL II program sought to:
(a) mobilize additional government revenues of Rs300 million -
equivalent to 0.4 of GDP - in the FY90 budget, of which at
least Rs200 million was to be from new revenue measures;5
(b) formulate a time-bound action plan to reduce tax holidays
in three years and to implement the first year action in
FY90;
(c) establish a closed and unified revenue service and to take
the initial steps in this regard in order to improve tax
administration; and
(d) take initial steps to improve the indirect tax system and
to convert specific excise taxes in certain identified
products into ad-valorem taxes.
5.11        These and other policy commitments were documented in the policy
matrix and in the Implementation Program which comprised Schedule III of the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). These commitments were largely completed
satisfactorily, though with some delays. In regard to revenue reforms, the
Government implemented new revenue measures totalling NRs.500 million a year
in each of the program years (FY90, 91 and 92) which far exceeded the NRs.300
million commitment for FY90. To improve indirect tax base, excise taxes on a
number of identified products were converted from a specific to ad-valorem
basis along with rationalization of import taxes. A separate sales tax
department was created to improve the collection from this tax. Legal and
administrative arrangements to create a unified revenue service were made
quite early in the program period, but its actual implementation was delayed
until FY92, because of delays in obtaining Parliamentary approval. An action
plan to gradually eliminate tax holidays over a three year period was approved
and the first two years of the plan were satisfactorily implemented during the
program period. For example, in early March 1990, tax holidays for a number
of industries (rice, oil and flour mills, jewelry, tobacco products, alcoholic
beverages, saw mills, brick-making, tanning, wooden furniture and packing, and
cottage industries requiring foreign exchange for more than 1OZ of their raw
materials) were removed. The FY91 budget terminated the exemptions for a
number of additional industries. However, there was a reversal of this
5      Since the Government's revenue receipts, in absolute terms, was
expected to decline as a result of the T&T impasse, it was felt that a
requirement that the revenue/GDP ratio be raised above the preceding (FY89)
year's level by a specified percentage would not be appropriate.



- 10 -
progress subsequently; the new Government,in order to encourage private
investment and activities, carried out a major re-evaluation of its trade,
industrial and investment policies in 1992; and as part of its new industrial
policy, announced new income tax exemptions (for example, for exports, tourism
and air transport) in 1992.
5.12        Notwithstanding their satisfactory implementation, the impact of
these measures fell short of program expectations. As noted, Government
revenue/GDP ratio did not improve during the program period. This was due to
a number of factors: first, during the T&T impasse government revenues (and
the revenue/GDP ratio) actually declined, due to reduced trade flows and
domestic activity levels. Second, the Government subsequently embarked on a
major tariff reform program (see below); and this reduced the growth of
collections from import taxes which are still the primary source of revenues
(about 40X) in Nepal. Third, and more important, the SAL II reforms, though
desirable in themselves, did little to change the underlying weaknesses of the
tax system, i.e., low elasticity and low coverage, as well as the need to
develop more domestic sources of revenues to compensate for the reduction in
import-based taxes associated with tariff reforms. It is now realized that a
fundamental overhaul of the tax system is needed to resolve these problems;
and the SAL II program in this regard fell short of these needs. Recognizing
the need for structural reform of the tax system, the Government in late 1992
initiated technical assistance from the Fund for this purpose; and an IMF
staff report was finalized in early 1993. The Government is now examining
these recommendations as well as conducting its own independent review, with a
view to formulating specific recommendations for tax reform in the next year's
and subsequent budgets.
5.13        Improvina Public Exbenditure MHanaremnt.  In this area, the main
objectives of the SAL II program were to ensure prudent public expenditure
management consistent with resource availability and macroeconomic stability,
and to improve the effectiveness of the public expenditure program. A number
of measures were to be implemented to achieve these goals:
(a)  agreed ceilings were set on the overall fiscal deficit and
domestic borrowing in order to limit expenditure growth;
(b)  institutional changes were to be made to improve the plan-
ning and budgeting process (for example, by improving the
working of the Resource Committee, extending and institu-
tionalizing the Program Budgeting approach for budget
preparation and management, improving accounting and moni-
toring capacity, etc.); and
(c)  changing budget allocation and release procedures for
facilitating project implementation and maintenance (e.g.,
providing sufficient budget allocations for operation and
maintenance needs in selected sectors and for a list of 35
core projects, delinking fund releases from procedures to
control financial irregularities in order to improve the
flow of budgeted funds to projects, etc.).



- 11 -
5.14        In regard to implementation, as noted in above, the Government
broadly adhered to the agreed ceilings on the overall budget deficit and
domestic borrowing. While there were some deviations over the program period,
these were relatively minor. (For example, SAL II program set a domestic
financing target of NRs.1400 million - equivalent to 1.5% of GDP - for FY90 as
part of the third tranche conditionality; actual domestic financing, however,
was NRs.2150 million or 2.4X of GDP in FY90. The Government, however, sharply
reduced the domestic financing the following year (FY91) to only NRs.560
million or 0.5% of GDP, so that the average for the two years was below the
envisaged budget.) Given the commitment to restrain the fiscal deficit, the
ratio of total expenditures declined over the program period from 23% of GDP
in FY89 to about 19% reflecting the reduced availability of resources and the
need for maintaining macroeconomic stability. Many of the institutional
reforms and budget allocation changes were also carried out as envisioned.
For example, the third phase of the PBPM project was carried out, efforts were
made to improve the functioning of the Resource Committee; and strengthen the
planning and monitoring capacity at the line ministry level. Budget alloca-
tions for O&M in four specified sectors and for 35 core projects were in-
creased, as agreed, and fund release procedures were initially relaxed.
5.15        Although specific measures proposed under the program were
implemented, for a variety of reasons the impact of these measures on improv-
ing public expenditure management was quite limited. For example, it was not
possible to continue liberal fund release mechanisms on a sustainable basis to
ensure smoother project implementation; While SAL II tried to develop new
institutional mechanisms and processes, the hoped for changed did not occur as
speedily as anticipated. The hoped for prioritization of the expenditure
program, as well as the initiation of a three year rolling budget did not
materialize within the program period.  Similarly, even though the PBPM
project did achieve some improvements in the data base for financial monitor-
ing of the budget, it did not basically alter the way in which the budgeting
process was being planned and managed. The effectiveness of the Resource
Committee in terms of bringing greater discipline to the budget formulation
process and providing the basis for a systematic mid year review did not
improve significantly.
5.16        The limited impact of the SAL II program on public expenditure
management can be attributed to a number of factors, both political and
program-related: First, the environment in which the program was implemented
was an exceedingly difficult one. A "caretaker" coalition government of
different political shades and opinions was in power during most of the
program period. This government saw its role purely as a "caretaker" and
shied away from undertaking any major economic reforms. Moreover, given its
composition, reaching agreement on reform issues was indeed difficult. Not
unexpectedly, the political consensus for prioritizing the expenditure
program, dropping marginal projects and establishing budgetary discipline
through a rolling budget process was lacking in this environment. Thus,
although efforts were made at the technical level to review the expenditure
program and prioritize it, political support at the highest levels was missing
to carry these initiatives to their conclusion. Second, it would appear in
retrospect that a strong constituency which was necessary to carry through the
proposed institutional reforms was also missing at the technical level also.



- 12 -
An effective Planning Commission which could take the leadership in develop-
ment budget preparation and management did not exist at that time. This put a
disproportionate burden on the Finance Ministry, which was ill-equipped for
this task. while the proposed reforms tried to alleviate this problem by
developing the capacity of line ministries to formulate appropriate expendi-
ture programs and monitor their implementation, this approach was not fully
shared by the Finance Ministry in practice. To some extent, this could be
attributed to the fact that the reforms envisioned in the program were too
sophisticated in relation to Nepal's environment. For example, the Program
Budgeting approach of delegating greater responsibility to the line ministries
for program prioritization and management required both a willingness to
undertake greater decentralization of the budget process as well as greater
accountability and discipline at the line ministry and project level. But, in
an environment where expenditure monitoring capacity and accountability were
very weak at both the ministry and project levels, the Finance Ministry was
reluctant to relinquish its traditional control-oriented approach. This was
indeed at the root of the fund release problem which the program tried to
resolve. Third, the resource situation became progressively tighter during
the program period, as the revenue ratio stagnated and regular/current
expenditures rose due to rising wage claims, subsidies and debt-serve pay-
ments. Against such a background, the Finance Ministry became even less
willing to relinquish controls over budget programming and fund release
process. Fourth, even though the PBPM project was implemented, there was not
sufficient ownership of it within the Government; the PBPM project was largely
carried out by external and domestic consultants, and did not sufficiently
involve personnel of government ministries and agencies in its work, so that
the necessary "institutional building" did not really take place.   Conse-
quently, despite the reforms introduced in the SAL II program, there was
little tangible improvement in expenditure management; and project implementa-
tion and aid utilization performance did not improve.
5.17        Given the limited progress achieved under SAL II, expenditure
management continues to be a critical area where major improvements are
needed. This need is now recognized by the Government. Moreover, there have
been a number of new positive developments which hold considerable promise for
the future. Over the past year the Government has initiated a major review of
externally aided projects (which comprise 60Z of the development budget) and
of the regular budget with a view to rationalizing the expenditure program.
This work is being managed in collaboration with the Finance Ministry by the
National Planning Commission, which has emerged as a key player in economic
management over the past year. This critical new development (which was
lacking at the time of SAL II formulation and implementation) has helped to
significantly strengthen the institutional base for carrying out expenditure
reform. Moreover, the implementation of the proposed Arun Hydropower project
has provided another important motivation for change; the Government, needs
to ensure that the Arun project can be implemented without crowding out other
necessary high priority investments which are needed to achieve its develop-
ment (including poverty alleviation) goals. This now provides a better basis
and stronger political commitment which have been lacking so far to undertake
expenditure reform.



- 13 -
5.18        Improvint Trade Policies.  Until'the mid-eighties, Nepal had a
highly restrictive trade and payments regime characterized by excessive import
licensing, high tariffs (up to 450%), r$ig4# quantitative restrictions and
preferential trade arrangements with India (under which imports from third
countries were levied additional duties up tq 55%). Under the SAL I program,
the Government tried to move away from this to a more outward-oriented system
by progressively liberalizing the trade and industrial licensing system,
removing quantitative restrictions, rationalizing and simplifying the tariff
structure on imports from third countries, and increasing incentives for the
export sector. The Government accordingly introduced a passbook system for
industrial imports, placed several important raw materials under OGL, and
established an auction system for commercial imports. (In FY88, roughly 10%
of third-country imports were under the passbook/OGL system, 14% under
auctioning and a further 37Z under direct import licensing, while the balance
was essential public imports, such as fertilizer and petroleum). During the
T&T impasse with India, Nepal tried to further liberalize trade arrangements
with third countries in FY89 and diversify exports into third countries. In
this context, trade reforms proposed under SAL II aimed at extending the
coverage of previously introduced trade reform measures and improving their
implementation. The specific measures proposed were to:
(a) expand coverage of items under the OGL/passbook system to
35% of third country non-aid imports in FY89 and to 50% in
FY90;
(b) streamline the import license auction procedure (by replac-
ing the existing product-specific system by a marginal
bidding system for broad categories of imports), and in-
crease the auction amount by at least 50% to NRs.1.5 bil-
lion in FY89 and by a further 50% in FY90; and
(c) provide duty-free imports of raw wool for the production of
carpets and extend the prevailing duty drawback system for
garments to all exports.
5.19        These measures were fully implemented.  The OGL/Passbook system
was substantially widened during the Trade and Transit treaty impasse to
encourage imports from third countries. The list of eligible imports was
further expanded by an additional 12 items (including tea, cement, cotton
fabrics, clinical equipment etc.) in February 1990'. During FY90 and FY91,
satisfactory procedures were adopted to improve the efficiency of the import
license auction system. The frequency of auctions was increased from 4 to 6
times a year; the scope of the auction scheme was also widened by shifting to
the scheme a number of items which had been previously subject to quantitative
6      During the T&T impasse, the additional duties on third country
imports were temporarily removed by some 73 essential items; with the normal-
ization in trade relations in mid 1990 these were reintroduced. However, as a
part of the government's latest reforms, these additional duties were lowered
to a range of 3-12% (from 5-20%) earlier), along with the exchange rate
unification and trade liberalization.



- 14 -
restrictions. Foreign exchange allocations for the auction system were
increased to NRs.1.5 billion in FY90 as agreed, to NRs.1.9 billion in FY91 and
to NRs.3.5 billion in FY92. To improve the efficiency of the auction system,
the Government streamlined the auction procedures by combining the numerous
separate allocation categories into two broad commodity groupings; and adopted
a marginal building system. With the expansion of these (OGL/Passbook/-
Auction) schemes, the share of non-aided third country imports financed
through the schemes rose to about 83% in FY91. In regard to exports, (a)
import duties on raw wool imports for production of carpets were eliminated in
FY90 and (b) the duty drawback system for ready made garments was further
streamlined; a decision was also made to refund duty drawbacks once export
documentation formalities have been completed, without waiting for the foreign
exchange receipts from exports. These two items comprised nearly 75% of
exports during FY92. During the T&T impasse with India, cash subsidies were
provided to other exports to encourage exports to third countries. With the
normalization of trade with India, however, cash subsidies for agricultural
exports were removed in early FY91. The other export subsidies were also
eliminated later on following a large (22%) nominal devaluation of the
Nepalese currency in early FY92.
5.20        During the program period and subsequently the Government adopted
a number of new measures which went far beyond commitments envisaged under SAL
II. In addition to above measures, significant progress was made in reducing
tariffs7, with maximum tariff rates being reduced to 100% and the median
rates remaining in a 20-50% range. The exchange rate was gradually depreciat-
ed by nearly 70% in nominal terms between FY89 and FY92 providing a strong
boost for exports. Subsequently, in mid 1992 the Government eliminated its
industrial licensing policy (except for a specified list of industries which
continue to be regulated for security, health and environment reasons); and
simultaneously eliminated import permit/passbook system for industrial
imports. More recently in February 1993, the Government unified the prevail-
ing dual exchange rate (effectively the devaluing the Nepalese Rupee by a
further 17-20% for those goods such as petroleum, fertilizer and industrial
machinery which were imported earlier at the official rate and about 5% for
other imports) and removing all restrictions on imports, except for a group of
6 items (with potential for smuggling) which are channeled through the auction
mechanism. Consequently, the Nepalese Rupee is now fully convertible for all
current account transactions, including both goods and services.
5.21        The measures adopted under the SAL II program represented a
significant step forward in improving the efficiency of the trade system and
rationalizing incentives especially for exports. They had a tremendous impact
on increasing exports (particularly carpets and garments) which rose dramati-
cally from the equivalent of $165 million in FY89 to $311 million in FY92.
Moreover, they have had a catalytic effect on and solidified the basis for
7      The SAL II program recognized that given the proximity to India,
Nepal's progress in reducing tariffs and pursuing an independent exchange rate
policy would be limited. While India's recent moves to liberalize its economy
created opportunities for further trade and exchange rate reforms for Nepal.
Nepal's actions in this area even exceeded India's.



- 15 -
further trade and industrial policy reforms; coming at an opportune time and,
given the Government's desire to diversify its trade pattern, they helped to
demonstrate that with appropriate policies Nepal can make considerable
progress in rationalizing the trade and industrial system and strengthening
the balance of payments.
5.22          StrenRtheninf Financial Sector Institutions.  Recognizing that a
healthy financial sector is a prerequisite for sustained economic growth, SAL
II aimed at correcting the serious portfolio problems of the two government-
owned commercial banks,' initiating measures to strengthen their financial
and operational performance; and improving the legal and institutional
environment in the financial sector by enhancing the capacity of Nepal Rastra
Bank (NRB) - the central bank - to supervise the banking system and implement
improved regulations and practices with regard to capital adequacy, loan
classification and accounting policies. The key reforms, which formed the
centerpiece of the third tranche of the Credit, were the following:
(a)  Take satisfactory action to strengthen and improve the
financial and economic performance of the Rastriya Banijya
Bank (RBB) and the Nepal Bank Limited (NBL), including
provisions for bad debts, recapitalization and debt recov-
ery targets;
(b)  Prepare an action plan to make current all government-guar-
anteed loans to public enterprises (PEs) within three
years, and make the necessary payments for FY90;
(c)  Enact a modified Income Tax Act to allow financial institu-
tions to take income tax deductions for provisions for bad
debts and suspended interest; and
(d)  Enact a modified Commercial Bank Act, NRB Act and NIDC Act
to enable NRB to exercise necessary supervisory control
over financial institutions.
(e)  A number of other conditions were also stipulated regarding
debt recovery targets, setting up of an effective Credit
Information Bureau, and implementing technical assistance
studies to provide the basis for further improvement of the
banking system.
5.23        These conditions were implemented with some delays.  A Credit
Information Bureau was set up in 1989, 100 large defaulters were blacklisted
and denied further access to credit and debt recovery targets were set for the
two banks. To assess the portfolio problems of the banks and identify
corrective measures, the Government initiated a Commercial Bank Problem
Analysis and Strategy study (CBPASS) in January 1990. In the mean time, the
a      The government-owned commercial banks-Nepal Bank Limited (NBL) and
the Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB)-controlled nearly 95% of the country's
commercial banking assets in 1989.



- 16 -
Government and IDA agreed on a three-year action plan to make all government-
guaranteed bank loans to public enterprises current by FY92; and a payment of
NRs.400 million was effected during FY90, followed by a second payment of
NRs.260 million in FY91. Following the completion of the CBPASS study, the
Government decided to go beyond the agreed plan to make the government
guaranteed debts current and instead actually repay the full amount of
outstanding loans made by the two banks under government guarantees to public
enterprises.  Additionally, the Government adopted the main recommendations of
CBPASS on strengthening the banks, including recapitalizing the banks and
enabling them to provision adequately for non-guaranteed bad debt. Conse-
quently, in March 1991 the Government introduced a Supplementary Budget to
provide NRs.443 million for recapitalization (equivalent to 6% of risk assets)
of the two banks and another NRs.3.12 billion for provisioning/repayment of
bad debt, including NRs.1.2 billion for private and NRs.1.9 billion for public
enterprise debt. The Government also vested the Nepal Rastra Bank with the
responsibility of implementing specific measures to strengthen the two state-
owned commercial banks; and announced that it would no longer provide loan
guarantees to public enterprises. NRB has subsequently proceeded to carry out
this mandate. Thus (a) provisioning and recapitalization of the two banks was
completed by July 1991; (b) separate loan recovery departments were set up in
RBB in March 1991 and in NBL in May 1991; and (c) guidelines to all commercial
banks on a new system of loan classification and accounting policies for
interest suspension and provisioning (based on CBPASS methodology) were issued
in May 1991. In addition, technical assistance (with UNDP funding) for
institutional development and restructuring of the two banks and assessing the
viability of their branch network were also initiated. Technical assistance
was also sought and obtained from the IMF to etrengthen the banking supervi-
sion and inspection functions of the Nepal Rastra Bank. To encourage banks
to take adequate provisioning and suspension of interest by making them tax
deductible, the Income Tax Act was duly amended in September 1989. Legisla-
tive changes were enacted to permit the Rastra Bank to supervise NIDC.
Accordingly, the fourth amendment of the Commercial Banks Act (CBA) and the
eighth amendment of the NRB Act were both gazetted in October 1989; while the
amendment of the NIDC Act was enacted in January 1990.
5.24        In regard to impact, the actions taken under SAL II represented a
good beginning in introducing much needed reforms in the financial sector. In
the short term, the reform program had some significant benefits: (a) It
helped to avert a potential crisis in the banking system by recapitalizing and
propping up the two banks; (b) The new institutions that were created (e.g.,
Credit Bureau), the new accounting and loan classification procedures and the
strengthening of regulatory/supervisory powers of the Nepal Rastra Bank led to
some useful institution-building; (c) It helped to modify the traditional
government attitudes of viewing the banking system as a means of financing
public enterprises; and probably stiffened the new Government's resolve to
make PEs more self reliant and commercially oriented; (d) Interest rate
liberalization and the program's stress on market orientation also probably
encouraged the Government to take more supportive view towards the evolution
of new joint venture banks and other new financial institutions (such as
finance companies) which have begun to increase and flourish recently.



- 17 -
5.25        Despite these benefits, the reforms however were not successful in
their primary objective of bringing about fundamental changes which are needed
to transform the two banks into viable commercially-oriented institutions.
The hoped for restructuring of the two banks and changes in the culture of
their management, operational standards, and portfolio quality have still not
taken place. While the NBL, which is 49% privately owned, has shown some
improvement, RBB still remains poorly managed. Although follow-up technical
studies on evaluating the viability of the branch network of the two banks and
developing possible approaches to bank restructuring were completed, no
consensus was reached on what should be done with regard to the branches or
how the banks themselves should be restructured. In part, this was due to the
lack of a clear vision on the part of the Government about what the roles of
these two government-owned banks should be. There is still considerable
ambivalence within the Government whether these banks should continue to
undertake a multiplicity of functions (including broader development and
social objectives), or whether they should be more commercially-oriented,
whether they should remain in the public sector or be eventually privatized.
Until these broader questions are resolved, however, it is difficult to see
how a clear strategy for restructuring the banks could be evolved. In part,
the design of the SAL II program itself probably contributed to this inconclu-
siveness. There was no clear agreement at the time of the formulation of the
SAL II program on how, when and what form the restructuring of banks would
take place. This was expected to fall out of the recommendations of the study
and to be agreed upon later on. This however did not prove to be possible,
particularly since the study was not completed until the concluding stages of
the program; and there were significant differences between the Government and
the Bank staff about what the appropriate approach to further reform/re-
structuring should be, and what specific commitments the program entailed for
the Government in this regard.
5.26          Agricultural Reforms.  These reforms were intended to stimulate
production in the dominant agriculture sector (which accounts for roughly 55%
of GDP and an even larger share of employment) and thereby help accelerate
overall output, income and employment growth. It was recognized that the
major constraints to agricultural growth have been problems in the supply and
delivery of fertilizer, inefficient and unreliable irrigation, slow progress
in developing appropriate production technology and weak extension. Some
improvements were made under SAL I in this regard by ensuring parity of
fertilizer prices in Nepal with those in India (to prevent smuggling of
fertilizer to India), and by permitting private dealers to enter into retail
distribution of fertilizer. SAL II aimed at building on this progress by:
(a) Substantially increasing fertilizer imports; and improving
the capacity of the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (which
has a monopoly of fertilizer imports) to forecast and moni-
tor domestic fertilizer demand and to plan and procure
imports on a timely basis;
(b) Improve the retail distribution system by removing prevail-
ing restrictions on private dealers (for example, by allow-
ing them to open dealerships in any location, to compete
with cooperatives, and to appoint sub-dealers);



- 18 -
(c) Maintain parity between retail prices (net of transport
costs) in Nepal with those in India; and to delegate au-
thority to AIC management in order to make any needed price
adjustments automatically; and
(d) Studies were also to be undertaken to develop a medium term
strategy for improving fertilizer management and distribu-
tion.
5.27        In irrigation, while public expenditures have focussed on large
scale surface irrigation projects, their performance (in terms of timely
completion and water delivery) has been poor, in part due to the absence of an
effective tertiary distribution network and adequate farm-level water manage-
ment; inadequate resources devoted to O&M and lack of agricultural support
services. The Government's new irrigation sector strategy, formulated in
1988, sought to redress these problems by emphasizing ground water development
and promoting greater collaboration between the Government and farmers in
irrigation development and maintenance. To this end, SAL II reforms sought to
support the Government's new strategy through a number of actions which formed
part of the conditionality for the third tranche:
(a) The adoption of a satisfactory action plan and time-table
for the establishment of an Irrigation Management Division
in the Department of Irrigation (DOI),
(b) Increased emphasis on operation and maintenance (O&M) of
government irrigation schemes through adequate budgetary
allocations and farmer participation,
(c) Turnover of small and medium government schemes to farmer
management and ownership, and
(d) Establishment of mechanisms for cost recovery for O&M and
adoption of a satisfactory implementation plan.
5.28        Most of the proposed actions in fertilizer area were either prior
actions or second tranche conditions; and were accordingly implemented quite
early in the program period, with some minor hiccups. For example, domestic
fertilizer prices were adjusted in November 1989, and have been generally
maintained above Indian prices up to now9. The Government has continued to
follow this posture consistently, tracking and matching any upward changes in
Indian prices more or less routinely. AIC was also empowered to make small
adjustments (less than 10%) in fertilizer prices as needed; but the anticipat-
ed automaticity in adjusting fertilizer prices was not realized, because (i)
given the political sensitivity of fertilizer pricing, the AIC management
shied away from this task; (ii) significant adjustments in the exchange rate
over the past 2-3 years necessitated large increases in fertilizer prices
9      Except for DAP and Complex, the prices of which were held somewhat
below Indian prices, in order to popularize their use domestically; however,
these prices were increased in line with Indian prices recently.



- 19 -
(which required cabinet approval) periodically. The restrictions on private
dealerships were also removed; however, their smooth implementation remained a
problem, requiring government interventions form time to time as political
parties and local interest groups resisted this move. By and large, however,
these initial difficulties have been overcome. Nevertheless, the effective-
ness of the private sector in fertilizer retail distribution is still limited,
because the AIC has had a total monopoly over fertilizer imports, and supply
availability has been unreliable (see below). The Government also increased
foreign allocations for fertilizer imports as envisaged. In light of the much
improved foreign exchange position of the country, foreign exchange availabil-
ity for fertilizer is no longer an issue. The major problem in this regard
has been the inefficiency of the monopoly public sector importer - AIC -
itself. While technical assistance for improving fertilizer demand forecast-
ing and monitoring was provided to AIC, the latter has been particularly
ineffective in managing the external procurement and import of fertilizer on a
timely basis. In two out of the past three years, AIC has not been able to
manage imports in time, leading to unnecessary disruptions in domestic
fertilizer availability. This has prompted the Government to change its
import policy in late 1992 (in line with the recommendations made in the T/A
financed study on medium term reforms for improving fertilizer management) to
allow private sector imports. However, since the major types of fertilizers
used in Nepal have continued to be heavily subsidized', there has been
little incentive for the private sector so far to import fertilizer and to
play a more aggressive role in retail distribution.
5.29        The irrigation sector actions were an important part of the
conditionality under the third tranche. Significant delays were encountered
in their implementation, however, because of the interim Government's reluc-
tance to carry out some of the needed organizational and legal changes.
Moreover, since the new irrigation strategy was still being evolved at the
time of the SAL II program formulation, the required actions were not clearly
defined. For example, the DCA referred to 'adoption of action plans",
"establishment of improved mechanisms", "satisfactory progress on implementa-
tion of borrower's the irrigation development strategy" etc., which led to
considerable vagueness in the interpretation of precise requirements of the
program. It was also realized that changes in management and ownership needed
to be implemented gradually, starting in pilot areas, in order to identify
possible problems at an early stage. Within these limitations, a satisfactory
start was made to the implementation of the program. The Irrigation Manage-
ment Division was officially established in October 1991 and was given
suitable responsibilities, adequate staff and budget allocations. With regard
to O&M, budget allocation for public irrigation schemes (totalling NRs.68
million in FY91 and NRs.82 million in FY92) were provided as agreed. The
Government also began the implementation of Irrigation Regulation 2045 (1988)
which, inter alia, provided a framework for formation of official Water User
Associations and participatory management in government schemes. A study for
promoting farmer participation in O&M was completed in July 1991; necessary
'     Urea is still subsidized upto about 40% of cost at present;
however, there is little scope for removing the subsidy (and expanding private
distribution) until India raises its own fertilizer prices adequately.



- 20 -
training of DOI staff and farmers was undertaken; and steps were taken to
improve O&M procedures and implement farmer participation in O&M and joint
management in three large-scale government schemes. To promote turnover of
small and medium government schemes to farmer management, the Government
prepared and approved an Action Plan for Turnover. The implementation of this
program was begun with the turnover of 64 large-scale deep tubewells in the
Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Irrigation Project (Cr. 2144-NEP); while turnover
has been initiated in two other district irrigation systems. In addition, the
DOI finalized the selection of another 15 public hill and terai irrigation
schemes for turnover during FY93. Improved mechanisms for cost recovery were
established under Irrigation Regulation 2045; these are now being used to
enforce water charge collection in the Bhairawa Lumbini project, where the
eventual objective is to ensure that water users pay full o&M costs and take
over management of the deep tubewells. Finally, to facilitate implementation,
the Government enacted a new Water Resource Act in 1992, which reaffirmed
government policies in the above areas and strengthened the legal basis for
turnover and farmer management. However, given the fact that the program is
one of a medium to longer term nature and that implementation is still a very
early stage, it is difficult to make any meaningful assessment of the impact
of the measures adopted so far at this stage.
6. Program Sustainability
6.1         Since the completion of the SAL II program, the reform process has
been sustained and expanded. In part, the environment for economic reforms
has improved considerably in the recent past, and in part there is genuine
willingness on the part of the Government to move forward in a number areas:
(a) As noted earlier, at the political level, a democratic majority government
was voted into power in May 1991; and it has since then consolidated its
position; (b) Nepal's relationship with India has improved considerably; and
new trade and transit treaties were finalized in 1992; (c) A clear recognition
has emerged that further economic reforms are essential to accelerating
Nepal's development; this reflects the Government's own assessment that it
needs to deliver the benefits of development efforts rapidly to its popula-
tion, as well as the positive experience with both SAL I and SAL II in helping
Nepal to cope with its economic adversities; (d) The Government's recognition
of the need for a stronger development effort has also led to the revitaliza-
tion of the National Planning Commission, which has begun to take the leader-
ship in economic reform and management, broadening the constituency at the
technical level in Nepal for the reform process; (e) Finally, the rapid pace
of economic reform and liberalization in India has created both a need and
willingness to undertake such reforms in Nepal. Notwithstanding these
improvements, however, administrative and implementation capacity is still
limited; and will remain an impediment to the smooth implementation of reforms
for quite some time.
6.2         In this improved environment, the Government has continued to
implement reforms begun under SAL I and SAL II and widened the reform process
into new areast



- 21 -
(a)   Macroeconomic stability has continued to be maintained.  A fourth
year PFP with the Fund and the Bank, negotiated in September 1992,
and a Fund-supported ESAF arrangement are in place. In the
current fiscal year ending in July (FY93), the external deficit is
expected to decline to around 8.1Z of GDP (from 8.52 in FY92) and
the overall fiscal deficit to 8.32 of GDP (from 8.52 in FY92).
Exports have continued to grow rapidly and the foreign exchange
reserve position has improved further. Economic growth, however,
is expected to reach only about 3.02, because of poor crops due to
drought. Nevertheless, increased food and other imports and
abatement of price pressures in India have helped to reduce the
domestic inflation rate from 20% in FY92 to a projected 9-10X in
FY93.
(b)   The Government's fiscal difficulties, however, continue.  Recog-
nizing these problems, preparations are currently underway (in the
National Planning Commission, in collaboration with the Finance
Ministry) to formulate a program for structural reform of the tax
system and to rationalize the public expenditure program.
(c)   In trade and exchange rate policies, major reforms have been
announced over the past year. As noted, in early February 1993,
Nepal unified (and substantially depreciated) its exchange rate
and removed foreign exchange controls on current account transac-
tions, effectively liberalizing all imports (except for 6 items
which will remain within the auction system to prevent trade
deflection). Substantial reductions in tariffs were also made;
future tariff adjustments, however, will need to be closely
calibrated with India's, given the open border with India.
(d)   In agricultural policies, further moves to expand private sector
role to fertilizer imports and extend it in retail distribution
were announced; but progress in this area would depend critically
on the pace of removal of subsidies on urea in India. In irriga-
tion, where a slow start was made under the SAL II program in
involving farmer management in irrigation maintenance, there is
evidence of increased momentum in the implementation of reforms.
(e)   The major (SAL II) area where progress is lagging is the financial
sector. Although the Government has taken a number of positive
steps to improve its overall monetary management and to expand to
scope for private joint venture banks and finance companies,
little progress is being made in restructuring the two large
government-owned banks (which still control 902 of banking sys-
tem's assets). In fact, these banks continue to incur large
losses; and if this trend continues, the two banks will again have
to be baled out. However, as noted (in para 5.25), there is no
clear government strategy in this area; and until such a strategy
is evolved, there is little likelihood of tangible progress.
(f)   Economic reforms have also been implemented over the past year in
a number of other areas which were not covered by SAL II, notably



- 22 -
in industrial policy, reform of public enterprises and public
administration. In addition, efforts are being made to expand the
role of the private sector, especially in agriculture, industry,
electricity generation and the provision of services, (including
tourism and domestic air transport). In some of these areas (such
as privatization of public enterprises and administrative reforms)
earlier inhibitions regarding political sensitivities are being
overcome, indicating greater willingness and commitment to sus-
taining the reform process.
7.    Social Impact
7.1         Unlike in many heavily-indebted countries where SAL-related
austerity measures could potentially hurt the poor, Nepal's program was not
expected to adversely affect the poor. This was because much of the popula-
tion is engaged in subsistence activities (mainly agriculture), and thus less
affected by developments in the monetized economy. To the contrary, SAL II
was expected to indirectly benefit the poor." As noted, the program was in
part aimed at helping Nepal cope with the severe dislocations caused by T&T
impasse; before the commencement of the program, there were severe shortages
of critical inputs and consumer goods, economic activities had slowed down and
inflation had accelerated sharply. Against this background, the overall
impact of the program on the economy as well was positive:
(a) It helped accelerate overall economic growth (though proba-
bly not to the extent suggested by the national accounts
data). While agricultural growth was modest, exports,
industrial production and services have shown strong
growth, with positive income and employment benefits.
(b) The program did help improve fertilizer availability for
agriculture both by adjusting prices (and thereby reducing
smuggling to India) and increasing imports. Recent experi-
ence has shown that fertilizer availability (rather than in
price) is the most critical factor for farmers.
(c) The SAL II program did involve increases in taxes (which
did not affect the poor), and adjustments in the exchange
rate and tariffs/prices charged on key commodities. Howev-
er, the trade reforms cushioned this impact to some extent
through increased availability imports and lowering of
average tariffs. Moreover, in some instances, for example
in urban transport and water supply, services continued to
be heavily subsidized.
(d) The Government also continued to operate a number of pro-
grams which were aimed at helping the poor - a food securi-
ty program for the rural poor especially in the hills, a
The program did not include a specific social action component.



- 23 -
similar "fair price" program in urban areas, and a number
of "priority" credit programs which the banking system was
required to implement. The food distribution program was
in fact significantly expanded during the program period,
at a substantial budgetary cost.
(e) As noted, in the absence expenditure rationalization, major
cutbacks in social sector programs did not take place.
Nevertheless, the fiscal stringency generally affected
funding availability for the social sectors, as well as for
all other sectors. (The newly elected government tried to
improve this situation by substantially increasing the
budget allocations for the social sectors and for rural
infrastructure subsequently in the FY92 budget.)
Thus, on balance, the SAL II program probably did not have an
adverse social impactl2. To the contrary, given the economic disruptions due
to the T&T impasse, the poor could have been hurt significantly in the absence
of the program. Notwithstanding the program, however, the numbers of the poor
probably continued to increase. This was not due to a "program failure", but
due to the fact that a large proportion of Nepal's population is living below
the poverty level; and rapid economic growth (together with a strong poverty
focus in Nepal's development strategy) is needed over a sustained period to
make a dent in the poverty situation.
8.    IDA's Performance
8.1.        The Bank played a key role in helping the Government formulate the
adjustment program, securing adequate external financing for the program and
ensuring aid co-ordination, and supervising/monitoring its implementation.
8.2         As noted, the program was formulated against the background of a
major economic crisis. Although considerable work had been initiated under
the preceding SAL I, the country's own technical capacity was not sufficient
at the time to prepare the program speedily as required. Consequently, IDA
played an important role in assisting the Government in developing the
program; helping to identify critical issues and possible solutions; assisting
in the launching of technical assistance studies which were needed to formu-
late recommendations and action plans for further reforms; and supervising and
managing some of these studies - for example, in the financial sector. There
was a high degree of consultation and collaboration on both sides during this
process, particularly, in the preparatory stages of the program.
12     The available data do not permit a systematic assessment of the
impact of the adjustment program on the poor; the latest household income and
expenditure survey was undertaken in 1984. Preparations are currently
underway, however, to start a Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS) in
Nepal which would improve the data base and enhance institutional capacity for
poverty monitoring on an ongoing basis.



- 24 -
8.3         The Bank also supported for the program in other ways, by ensuring
aid co-ordination, and mustering donor support for the program and providing
balance of payments financing support. Consultations with a number of donors,
bilateral and multilateral, helped to shape the policy package and assist in
its implementation. For example, a number of donors were involved in financ-
ing and/or managing the key technical assistance studies - UNDP in financing
the CBPASS study for the financial sector, the Asian Development Bank in
financing and managing the PBPM project for improving expenditure management,
and USAID in managing technical assistance support for irrigation sector
reforms. The Nepal Aid Group meeting (which the Bank chairs) and local
consultation meetings (which are held periodically under joint Bank/UNDP
chairmanship) provided a forum for continued donor consultation and collabora-
tion on SAL-related issues. The Bank also directly provided balance of
payments support for the program. The Credit amount of US$60 million equiva-
lent comprised 11 of the projected overall external financing gaps for FY89
and FY90, and 35Z of the program-type assistance required in these two years.
In addition, the Bank helped to mobilize co-financing to the extent of DM10
million from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), which was linked to the
satisfactory performance of the second and third tranche conditions of the
Credit.
8.4         IDA also devoted considerable staff resources to monitoring/
supervision of the implementation of the program. Routine monitoring of SAL
II implementation was undertaken by the Bank's Resident Mission in Nepal
(RMN); while supervision was shared between the country operations division
(COD), appropriate sector divisions (agriculture, and industry and finance)
and RMN, under COD's overall management. Given the nature of the adjustment
program, supervision missions were combined with the Bank's regular economic
missions to Nepal, and co-ordinated with visits by both IMF staff (to negoti-
ate and monitor the implementation of ESAF/PFP framework) and by the Bank's
sector division staff for project-related activities. These arrangements
proved very effective in identifying implementation problems and delays, and
drawing the Government's attention to the need for taking corrective action on
a timely basis.
9.    Procurement and AuditinR
9.1         The Credit was utilized to finance the foreign exchange costs of
eligible imports, as agreed. Contracts for the import of goods by the private
sector were awarded on the basis of normal commercial practices of the
purchaser. Purchase of imports of less than US$1,000,000 equivalent by the
public sector followed the public sector's procurement regulations. Except
for proprietary items, all imports by the public sector exceeding the US$1
million equivalent limit were to be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank guidelines. However, no ICB took
place under SAL II, as most import expenditures were those of the private
sector, with the remaining (public sector) imports falling under the above
mentioned limits. In regard to disbursements, as noted, because of delays in
releasing the third tranche, the closing date of the Credit was extended from
December 31, 1991 to July 31, 1992. Disbursements were fully completed within
17 days of the revised closing data. In regard to documentation, one audit



- 25 -
report was delayed; but appropriate action was taken to correct this situation
expeditiously. All other documentation requirements were satisfactorily met.
10.   Consulting Services
10.1        A number of areas supported by the Credit the required speedy
implementation of technical assistance to provide the basis for institutional
improvements as well as recommendations for further reform. Among the key T/A
work involved were (i) the PBPM project for strengthening public expenditure
management, and (ii) CBPASS study to provide the underpinnings for financial
sector reforms. (iii) In addition, a number of smaller T/A activities, on
tax reform, medium term fertilizer policy and improving irrigation management,
were undertaken. Management problems and implementation delays, especially in
the first two activities, contributed significantly to the shortfalls in
program implementation. The Credit did not finance any of these T/A activi-
ties, in part due to the Government's own preference for grant funding.
Moreover, in the case of the PBPM project (which was started under SAL I), the
Bank's policy on conflict of responsibility precluded the Bank staff from
managing the T/A. As a result, this T/A component which was critical to
strengthening the institutional mechanisms for public expenditure management,
was financed and managed by a different donor agency - the Asian Development
Bank. This arrangement proved to be very unsatisfactory, as the Bank's
perceptions of the T/A program's objectives and needs were not fully shared by
the implementing agency. In addition, frequent changes of consultants (the
PBPM project involved three successive groups of consultants)led to major
discontinuities, and (together with the problems noted in para 5.16) contrib-
uted to the lack of effectiveness of the project. This experience clearly
demonstrated the need for the Bank staff itself to take on the responsibility
for managing the T/A, where such studies are critical to the successful
implementation of the program. In the case of CBPASS, this need was recog-
nized as the Bank became the executing agency for the (UNDP-financed) study.
Nevertheless, the completion of the study (originally scheduled to be complet-
ed by October 1989) slipped about a year, due to delays in recruiting suitable
consultants. In the case of CBPASS, however, the focus and quality of the
technical work was much better (than in the PBPM project); and its relatively
weak impact on program implementation had more to do with the lack of agree-
ment on the specific objectives of reforms in the financial sector, than with
the quality of T/A itself.



- 26 -
PART II: Proiect Review from the Borrower's Perspective
11.         Factual information attached with "Part I:  Program Review from
the Bank's perspective" is accurate in most cases. Where inaccuracies were
found, they have been rectified. Most of the inaccuracies were due to the
revision of the figures by the sources themselves in latter years and avail-
ability of the actual figures.
12.         The Project Completion Report (PCR) was accurate and satisfactory
in respect of the objectives of the SAL II action plans, problems encountered
while implementing them and achievements. However, as noted, there were some
factual mistakes in Part I which were later corrected.
13.         Except for some inaccuracies which were mentioned above, the PCR
is perfectly in place. It has pointed out that the three successive govern-
ments were equally committed to the task of economic reforms and liberaliza-
tion notwithstanding the different political systematic background they
represented. However, the present democratic government is more committed
than the previous ones to the reforms. It has undertaken sweeping reform
programs and successfully implemented them in the areas of trade, foreign
exchange, privatization and public administration. The goverDnment is also
serious about abiding by the ESAF conditionalities. The government is
committed and prepared to clear all the impediments in the way of market
oriented and private sector-led economy.
14.         The PCR has also rightly pointed out that the project targets were
fairly met even in the adverse situation like T&T impasse, historic political
movement, promulgation of new democratic constitution and general and local
bodies election.
15.         The PCR has also rightly pointed out that the project failed to
materialize the reforms on revenue mobilization and expenditure control front.
The reason for such state of affairs is obvious. The project could not
propose and introduce serious and far-reaching measures involving structural
overhauling of the tax system so that institutional development and revenue
collection is enhanced in sustainable basis.
16.         Expenditure control has been the chronic problem in the Nepalese
fiscal system. Burgeoning budget deficit is the source of all economic
imbalances, internal and external. So, failure to control this deficit
undermines all other successes in the economy. Relative control in expendi-
ture/deficit in FY1989/90 and 1990/91 was the result of the compulsion of the
then governments rather than of the institutional development. The government
was hard pressed to slash down the expenditure in FY 1989/90 due to T&T
impasse and in FY 1990/91, the interim coalition government had the mandate to
create a fiscal situation whereby the elected government could start imple-
menting its policies afresh. Since the interim government had a term of only
one year, there was no question of implementing large projects during the
period. The trend of increasing expenditure/deficits emerged again since
FY1991/92 and has persisted even FY 1992/93. This is due to among others, the
compulsion to increase the salaries of the public employees, high expectations



- 27 -
of the people for development and relief after the political change, lack of
project prioritization and weak institutional mechanism to control the
expenditure on a sustainable basis. Currently, the government is working on a
programme for public resource management and prioritization of projects which
will be the basis of the next fiscal year's budget (1993/94) preparation.
17.         Although important reforms were undertaken in the financial
sector, the reforms in the two large state owned commercial banks have been
constrained by several factors including among others, the social and public
responsibilities assigned to them. It may not be possible to withdraw these
responsibilities immediately. The establishment of rural banks may help the
government commercial banks to withdraw from the priority sector lending to
some extent but this will not help them immediately to get rid of running
government accounts in rural and interior districts which are commercially
unviable. However, program restructuring and reorienting the banks to run on
commercial basis are being worked out in a phased manner in order to improve
efficiency of the banks in the next few years.
18.         Both the Bank and the government worked actively and with full
understanding in evolving this project. Most of the issues identified for
reforms were appropriate. However, the measures selected for achieving the
reforms in some sectors were weak and inadequate. Measures selected for tax
reforms and for expenditure control are the glaring examples of this deficien-
cy.
19.         Both the Bank and the Borrower were serious and active in imple-
menting the project. This made possible for the reforms in trade, foreign
exchange, public administration, financial sector, fertilizer distribution and
irrigation sector to achieve success in various degrees.
20.         One issue emerged while implementing this project was that other
Ministries which are included in the reform program were some what hesitant to
share the responsibilities to implement the reform measures. This might be
due to the fact that they were passively included in the process of formula-
tion of the program which resulted in a feeling that the reform program was
being implemented at the behest of some others rather than from their own
initiative. This issue should be taken into account while formulating and
implementing future reform programs.
21.         Another important lesson learnt from the implementation of this
project is that one should weigh the importance/effectiveness of the measures
selected for the reforms in any sector. If the reform program is serious and
important, the measures to be implemented also should be equally serious, far-
reaching and important.



- 28 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
(Amounts in US$ million)
1.                                                       As of December 31, 1993
Credit      Original    Disbursed       Cancelled    Repaid    Outstanding
2046         60.0         61.68            --         --          63.81
2.    Proiect Timetable
Original Credit Dates   Actual Credit Dates
Initiating Memorandum                  01/23/89                01/23/89
Letter of Development Policy           05/24/89                05/24/89
Negotiations (Concluded)               05/25/89                05/25/89
Board Approval                         06/27/89                06/27/89
Credit Agreement                       07/21/89                07/21/89
Effectiveness                          08/10/89                08/10/89
Tranche Release
Second Tranche                       10/31/90                03/06/90
Third Tranche                       05/31/89                 03/30/92
Credit Closing                         12/31/91                07/31/92
Final Disbursement                                             08/17/92
Actual Completion                                              08/17/92
3.    Credit Disbursement
(Cumulative)
FY90      FY91        FY92     FY93
(i)     Planned                       60.0       40.0        60.0      60.0
(ii)    Actual                        33.3       39.7        47.4      61.7
(iii)   (ii) as percent of (i)        83.3       66.2        79.2     102.5
4.    Missions
No. of     No. of       Staff
Month, Year     Weeks       Persons      Weeks
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision I       November 89         3           1           3
Supervision II       July 90            2           3           9
Supervision III     April 91            3           3           9
Supervision IV       July/Aug 91        2           3           6
Completion          March 92            1           2           2
5.    Follow-up Adiustment Operations
A Public Resource Management Credit (effectively SAL III) which will
focus on tax reform, prioritization of public expenditures and public adminis-
tration reforms is planned for FY95.



Table 1.1 Key Macro.conoelc Indictrors, 1986/07 - 1991/92
----------------------------------------------------_----
SAL I                                        SAL II                                           SAL II
19 5/90 196/U? 19"7/80         1933/89 s/  199/90 b/  1990/91 b/ 1991/92 b/             1938/09 1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
Actual                                    Projection                                          Actual
O0P growth                          8.9      2.7     9.7                1.6       -2.2          *.0         *.C              4.2      6.1 C/   6.6 C/   2.6
Invo6taeet/coP                     16.3    19.6    21.5               22.4        20.5         20.4        20.1             22.1    13.3      20.9      21.4
Domestic Savinge/lP                10.7    10.0    10.7                10.3        9.2          9.5        10.0              9.9      O.1       7.3      *.1
eotional Savings/oP                11.9    11.3    12.2                12.3       10.3         11.4        11.9              11.9   9.1   t .t          10.1
Inflation rote                     15.3    11.3    11.0                 9.6       12.0          9.1         3.5              0.3    11.1        9.3     21.0
Oewornment revenu*/GDP              *.3    10.1    10.6                10.0        10.3        10.9        11.3              10.0    10.2      10.2     10.2
Government Expeaditure/UP          19.0    19.7    20.0                21.5        19.3        19.7        20.2             23.2    21.7       19.3     13.9
Government Uudget belence/0DP    -9.1    -3.6    -9.4                 -10.5      -n.5          -3.9        -5.9            -13.2   -11.5       -6.4 f/  -3.5
Net Doseetlc fimanengo/GOP          2.5      2.1      1.1               2.2        0.5 e1       0.3         0.2              3.7      2.0       0.7      1.0
tuport Oreeth d/                    1.4   -11.0    34.6               -13.4      -19.8         13.9        14.2            -11.5      9.5      29.6     32.0
fsperts/cop                         8.0      5.2     0.1                6.6        4.7          5.0         C.2               6.4     5.7       7.1     10.3
Import Growth d/                    3.3      6.7    24.5               0.6       -10.1          2.5         5.7              2.2      0.1      14.7     -0.2
Importa/CoP                        13.1    13.9    20.6               21.1        20.5         19.6        19.2              2.1    20.2      22.1      26.4
Current Account Doficit/COP        -7.0    -7.1    -3.7              -10.2       -10.4         -9.2        -O.5             -9.9    -9.7    -10.6       -9.0
*/ Tentstlve estlntes given la the Prealdent9s Report dated June , 1339.
b/ Prejectlon. made In the Nepal (third year) PFP dated Octebefr 16, 1339,
satlfactery flselizatlen of which was a key soend trench& conditlon of SAL II.
c/ These numbers probably overstate actual gr- thl see tootnote 8 below.
d/ In USS torce.
e/ The lmiti.l SAL II program set a target of NRo.1400 million for domeotic
berrowing, equivalent to 1.33 of GOP, to FYtO. Ihle (rather than the PFP target of
0.53 shown above), sea the specifle requirement for moeting third
tranche conditioalilty.
1/ Enelsding CUPASS.
Source:  tre-idents Report am SAL 1.  epal !FP (October 16, 1939) *ad
0Ovorameat of Repl dat    '



Tble  1. 2
.0. NIIOSTIC PIODUCT
One. Nilolem)
107T/T6  1900/61  11301/92  1962/68  1013/94  194/6%  1996/9N  1986/97  1907/8S   1999/99    1969/90 e/ 1990/91 d/ 1991/92 *1
Nbmiael UDP           17394    27301    30933    3a7t1    39190    44417    6042    169246    68066          77634       90769     106181      129803
Agriculture        31611    13670    17308    122    32771    24171    30616    30751    3325             41299      49688       50230       66155
NR.mArtlelture    5733    11623    23066    14470    1613    20240    2160          39487     30338    36235       41201       48337       08448
rel GDP a/             7I3C00    20156    20920    20297    22202    23830    24845    25017    27475        2U621       30367      a2016       32320
Agriculture        11611 e     sm     12610    12471    13.86    18390    14705    14763    15393         11240       11618      19034       13939
Nm-Agrieuiture    5l3        3002      3304      7219     *954      9040    2*40    10929    11432        11619       11941      12932       136C1
GDP Deflater h/       100.5    135.5    143.1    166.3    176.9    136.0    204.6    231.3    260.2          270.9       299.1      323.5       396.6
Agrlculture        100.0    122.J    141.9    154.3    266.6    172.0    192.4    203.0    224.0          239.5       267.6      295.4       360.4
Ne,.Agrleuilture   101.7    141.7    157.0    131.2    190.4    210.0    237.5    263.1    237.7          818.4       846.0      377.0       457.1
!erc.nt Change Over the Previous Year
N"amIl  OP              5.0      16.0     18.5       6.0     16.7      12.6     13.6      17.5      16.2      12.6        17.1       15.3        21.4
Agriculture          0.5     14.0      14.3       7.7     16.1       6.1     11.0      14.7      16.1      15.3        20.1       13.4        16.0
Nes-Arerlulture    15.2      20.J      12.1      10.7     14.3      21.6     16.6      20.7      16.0       3.7        18.7       13.6        20.7
Real UOP  1             4.4       3.3      3.6      -3.0      9.7       6.1       4.3      3.9       7.3       4.2         0.1         6.5        2.6    .
Agristlture          0.6     10.4       4.6      -1.1      3.5       2.4      5.1       0.6       3.1       7.3         1.4        2.6        -0.5
NIn-Areleoltare    18.1       1.6       2.6      -1.3      0.3      12.2      *.1       S.$      6.0       -0.3         4.0        3.6         6.      I
UP Detlter             0.5       7.9      9.4      12.3      0.4       6.2      t.9      11.0       0.2       6.3        10.4         9.3       20.4
Agrisulture          0.0      J.J       9.1       *.9      7.6       *.1      6.6      14.0       7.7       0.9        11.6       10.-        13.6
Nee-Agrieleture      1.7     14.0       0.7      2I.6      4.4       6.6     11.1      10.3       6.4      10.7         0.1        3.J        21.3
*/ Ie 1074/71 marhet prices.
bj  1074/76 * 100.
6/  bugedo prellNary e*timt  .
d/Pr.limIsr, .etimest..
/  Te tive estimates.
tource: Central Bureau of Statietie .



Tablo 1.3
CPOSS DOUESTIC PRODUCT BY INDUSTRIAL ORIGIN
(Perceet ot GOP)
1975/70  1900/81  1911/62  1982/83  1988/34  1904/86 1908/68   1980/87  1987/Il  1908/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 */
Agriculture, Fisherle4
oad Ferestry                   00.1     U8.6 9     7.2     68.5      67.3      63.9     62.7      61.4      51.6     62.7      64.1      63.0     60 0
mlnln  and  uaerrying             0.1       0.2      0.2       0.3      0.2       0.3       0.2      0.2       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
Mamufacturluo                      4.0       1.6      4.0       4.8       4.6      4.5       C.2      6.2       5.3       4.1       5.0      6.?       9.0
Modern                          2.6      2.6       2.7       3.0      8.4       8.4       4.0    - 4.1       4.8       8.9      4.3       5.3      7.7
Cot.t             a1.                    1.2       1.3       1.J      1.2       1.1       1.2      1.1       1.0       0.7      0.7       1.0       1.3
Eloctrlety, age A Wat r            0.2       0.2      0.e       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7      0.8       0.8       0.9
Ceestructies                       4.1       7.2      7.6       7.0      6.5       8.1       7.0      6.5       7.6       7.8       7.3      6.9       6.9
Trade, Rertouronte
and Hotels                      3.5      3.6       3.4       a86      3.9       4.1      4.4       4.9       4.9       6.0      6.0       6.2      6.6
Trade                             -      3.0       3.I       3.2     83.        3.r       3.9     a7.3       3.9       4.0      3.9       4.0      4.8
Neataurante A Hotels              -      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.6      1.1       1.0       1.1      1.2       1.2       1.3
Transport, C _ nicatione           4.6       6.9      6.4       6.8       0.3      6.2       8.2      6.1       5.4       4.6       4.4      4.6       4.1
and Storage
Flnancial *ad Reol Estate          8.7       7.6      7.6       7.7       7.6      7.7       7.8       8.0      1.1       8.7       6.9      8.7       8.4
Comunlty a Sociel Servic-e         6.0       6.6       7.0      7.r       7.2      3.3       3.3      6.6       a.5       8.8       7.0      7.4       7.2
Public                          4.7       5.8      6.6       6.38      5.       6.8       6.7      7.1       7.1       7.8      6.3       6.2       5.6
Extra Torritorlal                 -      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
Prlivt. Servicas                1.4       1.0      1.2       1.3       1.8      1.4       1.4      1.4       1.3       1.2       1.2      1.1       1.3
CDP at Factor Coat                95.4      93.3     93.7      93.7      93.9     93.6      93.3     93.4      92.4      93.0      93.1     93.a      93.8           *
Not Indirect Taxes                 4.6       6.7      6.3       6.3       6.1      6.4       8.7       8.6      7.6       7.0       6.9      8.7       6.4
Agriculture                     0.7      0.6       0.8       O.6      0.       0.5      0.5       0.6       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5       0.6
Nen-Agriculture                 4.0      0.1       *.7       C.7      C.        5.09      6.1      6.0       7.1       6.5      6.4       8.2       5.9
,1
CDP at Market Price              100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
_____________-______ _- ____________      _--
s/ Preliminary E.timatee.
Sources Statletleal Appendix Table 2.2.



Table 1.4
NATIONAL ACCOUHTS EXPENDITURE DATA
C1s.  illion1)
1976/70  1980/81  1092/68  1091/84  1984/86 1906/08  1988/07  In?7/66  l9s6/60  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 /
Gross Dome_tic Product fc               10669    26468    *1644    87004    41658   47064    65358    oM0oo    72097    64644    98183   121638
Plus Not Indirect Taoms                   305       1641      2117      28t6      28l    a834        66se     5256      64a37      246      7004      6285
Orees Domestic Product *p               17394    27307    83781    89390    44417   5042S    59248    08866             77534    90789   106187   129S03
Plus Import of Ooods and Nt.             2488      157        71906     7681      9117   11216      11132    18650    19202    21769    26727    40332
Total Resource- Availabl=-Uses          19680    32804    40967    47061    53734   81846    72378    86200    98736   112576   133694   170135
Total Conoumptlon                       16364    24333    80874    81604    38178   44641           51926    81264    89824    06229    97462   117750
Private Consrmptlon                  14000    22411    2746        81660    33607   30406    45616    52742    6o06a           74868    86988   105994
Public Consumptlion                   1294      1922      *410       8644     4271       18       6170      6511      9186    10894    10466       11756
Total Investoont                         2882      4808      882s 6     761    10184   10699    12896    15237    17106    18478    22014    27793
tross Fined Capital Formotlon         2448      4299       e651     6901      9686    9481    11621    18414    14066    14402    19720    23746
Public                               682      1623      2941      8139      3829    8909       4727      5468       8s85      8747      8906      8962
Privat                               oull     2476       8s2s     3786      $767    1522        7096      79a1      7426      7855    12722    10693
Change In Stock                        199       109         52       444       796    1108       1073      1823      8028      2074      2294      4048
Expert .f Oods and Nt.                   1674       3628      2455      4196      5a32    5800       7656      6717      9804    10871    14428    24692
Memerandum Items
aGras Domestic Savings                   2040       2974      2867      8806      0289   '6687       7321      7004      7710       6550      7715     12063
Net factor  ico.so                         277       say       so?       626       G6o      700      1204      1575       1714      1984      2147      2715
Net Carrent Trmnster                       S75       951      1378      1496      1488    1632       1469      1435       1464      1245      1912      2172
Oroas National Savings                   2892       4512      4957      6009      6338    8128       9994    10814    10788         8739    11774    18940
Privat-                               2211      8464      4113       4678      7828    70ls       6154      6o06     10716      6739    11774    16940
Public                                 441      1068        645      Il3      1010    1081       1640      2181          0         0         0         0
Gross Natlenal Product sp               17671    27894    84456    40016    45078   51137    80460    704aa    79248    92723   107114   11251S
a/ Prelilncry Estimates
Source, Central Buros. of Stotlotico.



Table 1.5
NATIONAL ACCOLUTS EXPENDITURE DATA, RATIOS TO CDP
(Percent)
-------------------------------------------------------------__________________________--______--___               --_______________--_--____--_--
1975/76  1980/81  1982/83  1983/84  1984/86 1986/80  1980/87  1987/80  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92 ./
________ --------------------------__-----------------------------__ ---------__------------------------------------------_----__--_----_ ___-_
Orono Domestic Product tc                96.4     93.3      93.7      93.9      93.6    93.a       93.4      92.4      93.0      93.1      93.3      93.8
Plus Not Indirect Taxs.                   4.8      6.7       6.3       6.1       6.4      6.7       6.6       7.8       7.0       6.9       8.7       8.4
Oross Domestic Product up               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Plus Import of Good. and Nto             14.2      19.6      21.3     19.4      21.0    22.2       22.2      23.7      24.8      24.0      27.a      31.1
Total Remource- Avollabl-=Uo-o          114.2    119.6    121.8    119.4    121.0   122.2    122.2    123.7    124.9    124.0    127.3    131.1
Totol Consumption                        88.3     89.1       91.4     90.1      86.0    88.3       87.8      89.0      90.1      93.9      92.7      90.7
Private Consumption                  80.8      82.1      51.3      30.9      76.1    78.1       78.6      76.6      78.2      82.4      82.7      81.7
Public Consumption                     7.4      7.0      10.1       9.3       9.8    10.2       11.1      12.4      11.8      11.4      10.0       9.1
Total Invost.ent                         16.1      17.6      19.8      18.7     22.9    21.0       21.8      22.1      22.1      18.1      20.9      21.4
Gross Fixed Capital Formation         14.0     16.7      19.5      17.5      21.1    18.7       20.0      19.6      16.2      16.9      18.8      18.3
PublIc                              3.6       8.7       5.7       8.0       8.2      7.8       8.0       8.0       8.6       7.4       6.7       6.4
Private                            10.4       9.1      10.3       9.6      13.0    11.0       12.0      11.6       9.6       8.4      12.1      12.9
Change In Stock                        1.1      1.9       0.2       1.1       1.5      2.3       1.0       2.6       3.9       2.3       2.2       3.1
Export ot Goodo and Nto                  10.8      12.9      10.2      10.7     12.1    11.1       12.8      12.7      12.6      12.0      13.7      18.9
Memorandum Items
Groes Domestic Sovings                   11.7      10.9       5.6       9.9     14.0    1t.7       12.4      11.0       9.9       6.1       7.3       9.3
Not Facter Income                         1.6       2.1       2.1       1.6       1.S     1.4       2.0       2.3       2.2       2.1       2.0       2.1
Het Current Tronster                      2.2       3.5       4.1       1.2      3.2      8.0       2.6       2.1       1.3       1.4       1.8       1.7
Grog. Notional Savings                   16.6      18.6      14.7      16.A     18.8    16.1       16.9      16.4      13.9       9.6      11.2      13.1
Private                              12.9      12.6      12.2      12.4      16.5    14.0       13.8      11.7      18.9       9.0 9?.1
Public                                 2.5       3.9      2.6       2.9       2.3      2.1       3.1       3.7       2.7      2.9                 2.8
Grove National Product mp               101.6    102.1    102.1    101.6    101.6   101.4    102.0    102.3    102.2    102.1    102.0    102.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__---------------------------------------------------------------
a/ Prolllnary Estimotos.
Source: Statistical Appendix Table 2.3.



Table 1.6:  Balana., of Paymenis, FY91 FYi2
IUS$ millionl
..-   - - -  -- - - -  - -- -   - - -  -     .   ... .... .......... ..........                           ...   .....    ......  ..........     ....    ...........    ...   .........  ---- . -- -- -   -- . --   --
FY61      FYI)       FY86       FY87      FY88       FYi9       FY90      FY91       FY92
Merchandile Exports                         134.7       82.0     154.7    133  4       186 5   '1bs 2       180 9    234 5        130 9
Merchandie Imports                        -311.2     457.2    -469.9    -503 7    627 8         641 7    642.13    716.6    714,9
Trade Balance                           -216S.5    -375.2    -315 2   -365 1    441 3    476 5   .461.4    -502 1   -424 0
...--    -  -- -                          ..  .... . . ...... . . . -----   ...   ..         ...  ......             ......   . . ...... .... ..  ......  ...........
Sei',ices, Net                               9i 1    118 0        78 9    107 I         9f I    II/ I        91 4       85 I      8667
..... .......                                        . .   . .... . .  . -  .   . . . . .... ................ ...........
Receipts                                  171.0     162.1      174.6     214.5      226 0      242 6    222.8       241.2      261.8
of which Travel                          64.6       60.9       531.7      80.2      75 7      109 1    109.2       111.6       91.6
Payments                                  -79.6     -64.0      -9S.1    -107.2    -132.7       125.5    -13.4    -1S51.0    -175.1
Private Transfers,net                        41,7       40.9      40         S 58 7     11 I       Ss 0      61 I       56 4      48.6
Indian Excise Retund                          4 a        0 6        1.9       5 4        S I        i 4       0 0        6.1       10 a
Current Account Balance                     -96.6    -215.6    -191.0       194 0    .369 6       too a     1ill a     1S3 O     271   7
Official Grants                              71.9       94.9      67.9       60.1       62 9       49 9      17.6       63 7       31.6
N & L Cap. Net                               52.9       67.0      90.8       67.1      199 4     237.1      206.0      199.6      163.2                                       Li
Gross                                      55.5      69.6      0OO.S       96.7     216.0      252.0    233.S    226.6         194.0                                        t
Amortization                               -2.6       -2.6      -9.7       -9.7     -16 5      -14.9      -25.5      -27.1     -30.R
IMF, Net                                                 0.0      11.1       JO.7       10 1       11 3       1.0       -9 4       -3.5
Air Craft, net                                           0.0        0.0       0 0       43 0       47.1      -5.6       -6.5       -6.9
Miscellaneous Cap                           -12.0       43.0       51.9      55.1       71 2       41.6     165.0      159.5      167.4
Changes in Reserves */                       16.2      -10.7       30.0      13.0      117.0        3.0      95.0       43.0       19.0
Reserve Level  1-I                          195.8      224.0     177.0      196.0      313 0     316.0      411.0      454.0     633.0
In months  Imports                         -5.2      -5.2       -3.6       -3.8      -4.9       -4.9       -6.4       -6.1      -7.0
Memo Items:
CA Deficit/gdp                               -4.2       -8.8       -7.6      -7.1       -6.7       -9.9       -9.7     -10.6       -9 6
GDP                                        2281.5    2437.4    2526.2    2731.2    3111.5    i041.5    3176.7    3331.1    2890.9
Ex Rate "RS/5                                12.0       13.9       19.9      21.7       22.1       25.5      28.6       31.6       44.9
a/ I-) denotes increase in reserves
Source: Nepal Rastra Bank
Debt service:



ThbI6 1.7
teUPOSITI0N OF TRADE BY SITC GROLP
00.. MillIo )
1975/76  1930/61  1982/86  1968/84  1984/S6  1936/36  1906/07  1967/Se  1983/89  1939/90  1990/91  1991/92
Exports, f.e.b.                                  1166.6   1600.6   1132.0   1703.0   2740.6   3078.0   2991.4   4128.3   4211.1   5169.6   7403.3  13968.6
Food and live onlmlo                             604.0    186.7    327.7    584.1    992.1    635.6    703.7    804.4    677.6    616.0    986.0   2096.0
Tobacco and boverage.                               4.0      15.4      15.3      5.3       5.0       0.2       3.5     10.1       0.6       4.0     12.0       4.0
Crude materials, lnodiblee. except fuels          226.2    681.6    336.4    372.7    468.6    412.9    491.1    513.7    249.9    239.0    312.0    478.0
Mlneral tuele end lubrIcant.                         1.7      0.4       0.7      6.3       1.0       0.2      0.2       0.8         -         -        -         -
Anlml ond wvegetble ello and fate                   1.8     67.6      42.2     07.6      67.1      01.3    117.1    171.5    100.6        20.0    202.0    120.0
ChIoleals and drugs                                 0.3       3.9       1.0      6.h       1.2       2.1       2.0     12.6      20.0      11.0     18.0      11.0
Manuaoetured goodo, chlefly cloooltld
bl materilso                                   104.7    264.3    *67.6    581.6    649.1    899.9   1009.6   1601.8   1982.6   2693.0   4312.0   7626.0
Mochinery and transportatlon *quipment              3.7       1.0       7.9     24.4      So.7      66.6       2.6      0.5       6.8       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other manufactured produect                        21.0    143.0       44.6     57.7    618.4    626.5   061.5    990.9   1246.5   1676.0   1646.0   3651.0
Other                                                7.6      1.7       0.1      0.0       1.2       0.6       0.2     16.2      15.9      11.6     16.3      20.5
Imports, c.l.f.                                  1981.6   4428.2   0314.0   8614.3   7742.1   9341.0  10906.2  13693.8  16368.8 16365.7  23266.7  32998.3                1
Food and live animal-                             291.1    001.2    924.7    728.4    762.9    971.1   1028.9   1623.7   1332.6   1607.7   1821.0   3671.0              w
Tebacco and beverages                              42.4      24.6      62.5     71.9      79.4    112.9    144.0    172.2    197.1    226.6    260.9    162.0
Crude *at*rlnl     ; Inedibl*e, except fuels        88.7    111.5    206.6    266.2    424.5    693.0    657.2   1030.9   1182.7   1671.1   2011.0   3761.0
Minerol fuels  and lubriconts                     211.7    586.,    701.9    749.2    911.4   1064.0    929.6   1049.9   1116.7   1615.5   2278.0   6673.0
Animal ond vegetable ollo and fats                   7.4     92.5    06.8       76.5    122.       101.9    175.9    652.0    402.7    476.3    742.0    311.0
Chemicals and drugs                               190.1    627.6    640.0   609.4    908.0   1170.0   1287.6   1495.8   1532.7   2826.9   3061.0   4417.0
Manutoctured goods, chiefly classifiod
bt materials                                   546.9   1269.2   193a.6   1601.9   2376.9   2769.6   a226.9   6369.2   4671.0   606.0   6961.0   8761.0
Machinery and transportstion equipment            418.4    802.9   1180.9   1861.2   1871.4   2164.7   2784.1   4143.7   4647.0   3790.4   6990.0   5576.0
Other manufactured products                        160.4    407.6    684.8    466.3    460.0    017.2    664.0    729.1   1036.5   1247.6   1121.0   1657.0
Other                                               22.7     11.0       4.8       2.4      6.9       6.7       7.1      61.2     S7.6      31.4      *1.3    220.6
Sourcot Nepal Rostra lank.



Table I .l1
EXPORT VALUES OF MAJOR COMMODITIES
(NR.. Mllion)
1976/76  1980/81  1981/82  1982/813  1963/84  1984/86  1986/60  1980/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
---------------------------------------.------___----_-___---__-____--------___-_-__-__----__-__----__---__--_------_-----___--_----__--__-__--------------
I.   Exports to India                      088.1    524.0    440.3    372.B    600.4    862.9    414.9    a86.9    483.2    321.1    199.4    424.2    296.6
Rice (hushed)                     495.4    111.6    136.5       11.3     75.2    236.3      93.2     14.4       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
TI-b.r                             54.1    228.2      87.2      21.0      7.0      3.6       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Mail*                               0.0      24.5     28.1       0.3      0.4     10.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      1.3      0.1       5.8      0.0
Mustard A Llnxe-ds                 40.3       0.0      0.0       0.0     76.1     18.6      68.1    103.1    141.3      49.6      11.2     82.1     81.0
Herbs                               2.3      16.5      6.4       5.9      3.0     26.0      16.6      8.1      18.4     13.5       6.9     21.3     13.2
Ohoe                               00.5      54.0     20.2    J8.9       45.9     28.0      47.0     46.6      40.7     49.1      18.7     27.6     13.2
Drld Ginger                       16.0      10.6     15.3      19.3     37.8     28.3      30.3     35.2      87.3     29.0      11.8     29.4     10.2
Rna Jut4                            0.0      48.4     48.4      86.6     l6.1     43.9       2.3     14.5      44.1     33.8   I13.7        6.7      0.0
Jute Cuttings                       0.0      17.7     18.2       6.2      1.2      0.0       0.0      0.0       6.6     10.5      0.0       0.0      0.5
Jute Goods                          0.0      10.3     6t.0    179.1    211.6    264.0    187.4    184.0    181.1    134.1         11.2    272.3    191.4
e/u Hessian                       0.0       2.6     27.1      78.6     91.7    117.1      76.2     91.0      34.9     68.5      2.2    106.2      72.2
e/e Sacking                       0.0       5.0     49.6     88.8      96.0     86.6      57.9     40.6      08.4     48.7      4.0      78.0     29.5
e/e Twine                         0.0      0.9       4.1     12.6      84.5     51.3      31.3     32.4      35.4     28.9      5.0      69.1     69.7
II.  Exports to Third Countries             Cs.?    275.1    286.1    2a1.1    488.8   1089.7   1897.1   1388.3   2368.4   3046.0   4301.7   6573.4  11808.2
Large Cardemm                      18.       15.4      7.4       5.9      6.1     14.6      26.7    100.6       0.0     14.9       5.8      0.8      0.0   a'
Hides A SkIns                      24.9    117.7      93.3      95.1    165.6    242.7    23J.2      21.6    182.3   11.3    283.9    210.6    216.0
Pulses                              0.0       0.0     58.2       3.0      6.0     97.8    240.4       0.0       0.0     48.0    206.6    169.9   1144.3
Carpets                             9.3      68.2     34.0    137.6    285.4    249.4    376.4    624.4   1223.7   1823.2   2331.4   3738.0   7036.1
Handicrafts                        12.7      65.6     12.2       9.4     12.6      12 7     17.7     32.4      68.8     77.9      72.7     80.9    168.9
Ready-de GOrments                   0.0       0.0     13.0      10.0     20.5    472.7    803.7    609.8    916.6   1117.7   1399.3   1372.2   3251.9
III.  Total (I and II)                     73a.8    799.1    708.4    033.9    987.0   1742.8   2112.0   1774.2   2839.6   a337.1   4601.1   6997.6  12103.7
--     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -



Tablo 1 .9
CENTRAL aOVERNMENT BUOCETARY PERFORMANCE
(NR&. Million)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__-------------------------------------------------------------______---_--
1976/76  1980/01  1981/82  1982/13  1931/34  1984/86  1986/88  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90    1990/91 b/ 1991/92 c/
________________________________________________._____________________________._____________________________----_________________________________________
Revenu*                           1116     2419     2080     2842      3409     3917     4846      6976     7360     7777     9288       10488      13086
Tax Revenue                      911     2036     2211     2421      2787     3161    3869      4372      6764     8287     7284       8170       10000
Non-Tax Revenue                  20C      363      488      420       072      76e      986      1603     1690     1490     2004        2292       3086
Expenditure                       1913     4092     6361     8979      7437     8396     9797    11613    14106    18006    19889        19281      24228
Regular                          674     1361     1634     1997      2274     2906    8664       4136     4677    5678      6672        7564       9764
bevelopeent                     1239     2731     8727     4982      6164     5489     6213      7370     9428    12329    12997       11697      14472
Overall Deficit                    798     1873     2882     4138      4028     4478     6163      6638     8766    10228    10381        8793      11141
Financed by:
Foreign Cranto                   880      889      993     1090       877      923     1173      1286     2077     1881     1976        2701       2090
Net Forelgn Borrowing            146      698      730      986      1671     1765     2601     2706      3816      O866    6980        6632       6746        1
Net Domestic Flnanclng */        292      111      969     2062      1480     1800     1479      1647      862     2891     2447 d/      680 b/    2306        Lo
a/ Includes use of cash balances.
b/  1990/91 figure excludes an amount of NRo. 3,272 million for provisloning and capitalzation
of banks under CBPASS tinane d by *pecial bond Issues.
c/ Revised Estimates
d/ Of shich NRs. 298 millIon roprosented a drowdown of governmnt cash balances.
Source; Mlnistry of Finance. National Planning Comsloslon



Table 1. 10
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BCETARY PERFORMANCE
(As Percent GOP)
1976/78  1900/81  1961/82  1962/63  1933/14  1964/86  1986/86  1986/67  1987/08  1988/19  1969/90    1990/91 b/ 1991/92 c/
Revenue                             8.4       8.9      8.6       8.4      8.7       8.8       9.2     10.1     10.7      10.0      10.2       10.0        10.1
Tax Rovenuo                       6.2       7.C      7.1       7.2      6.9       7.1      7.3       7.4      8.4       6.1      8.0         7.8         7.7
Non-Tox Revenuo                   1.2       1.4      1.C       1.2      1.7       1.7      2.0       2.7      2.3       1.9      2.2         2.2         2.4
Expenditur- & Not Lending          11.0      15.0     17.3      20.7     16.9      18.9      19.4     19.4     20.5      23.2      21.7       18.3        18.7
Regular                           3.9       5.0      6.3       6.9      6.8       6.6       7.1      7.0      6.8       7.3      7.3         7.2         7.6
Development                       7.1      10.0     12.0      14.0     11.1      12.4      12.1     12.6     13.7      16.9      14.3       11.1        11.1
Overall Deticit                     4.6       6.1      8.7      12.3     10.2      10.1      10.2      9.3       9.8     13.2      11.4        8.4         6.0
Financed by:
Foreign Oranto                    2.1       3.2      3.2       3.2      2.2       2.1      2.3       2.2      3.0       2.2       2.2        2.6         1.6
Net Forelgn Borrowing             0.0       2.5      2.4       2.9      4.2       4.0      t.0       4.0      6.C       7.3      6.6         C.3         C.2      co
Not Doeatic Borroeing */          1.7       0.4      3.1       6.1      3.6       4.1      2.9       2.6      1.3       3.7       2.7 d/     0.6         1.9
a/ Includes use of caoh balances.
b/ 1990/91 figure exeludes an amount of NRn. 3,272 million for provieloning and capitalization
of banks under C8PASS financed by special bond leauca.
c/ Revlod Eatleatec.
d/ Oa *hich 0.3X of GOP equivalent roproeonted a draodown of govornment cash bolances.
Source: Mlnistry of Nepal, National Planning Comlnolon



Table I.1
CEMTAL OCSENUEITREVENLUE
(NRe. Millon)
1975/70  1990/91  1901/12  192/92  I$/34  1994/85  1935/18  1988/97  1397/93  1900/99  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
1. Tox Revenues                   911.0  2036.7  2211.3  2428.1  2737.0  3160.9   8669.6  4871.9  6752.9  6207.0  7283.9  8178.2  10000.2
Custaes                          853.5   315.0   325.1   760.9   325.9   1064.4  1231.1  1601.2  2214.7  2239.9  2634.9  8044.3  1602.3
Imorts                         204.5   635.1   788.1    714.0   746.2   907.6  1091.1  1235.3  1984.3  2183.3  2646.0  2763.7  2371.9
Exmprts                         87.7    63.5    42.2       25.1    80.4    55.7    19.8        70.4   107.0    62.7    32.0    70.5   105.1
Indian Excie Refund           112.0    59.1    40.4       20.0    49.0   100.0    75.6    1.3   121.2    91.6             0.0   211.6   621.8
Oth.re                           4.8      *.1      3.0      1.0      0.3      1.2      1.0      2.1      1.3      1.7      6.3      1.5      1.7
Too an Goods and Services        816.0    60.0  1006.2  1216.1   1869.3  1626.9  1766.6  2093.0  2628.0  2865.9  3103.9  3783.4  4963.7
Industrlel Preduction          100.0   224.7   298.0    8t5.5   42t.3   479.0   666.4   075.4   822.4   370.9  1094.9  1199.7  1441.2
Liquor                          32.1     11.5    11.9    10.3        6.3      4.9      3.8      3.2      2.9      6.9      2.1      0.6      0.8
Sales Tax                      161.9   587.7   697.4   709.3   770.7   345.9   935.9   1143.0  1800.5  1379.7  1650.1  2026.1  2360.0
Fntertsimment Tnx                7.0    12.0    11.2    10.8    24.0    24.4          22.3    20.0    22.3    32.9    18.5    39.5    60.2
H.tel Tax                        8.5    17.4    28.1       29.0    84.5    33.3       47.6    *0.0    30.6    93.2    39.7   115.7   117.1
Air Flight Tox                   2.7    20.0    21.2    22.7    25.4    26.9          24.9    44.7    O6.4    67.0    37.7    173.4    177.3
Contract                         0.5    86.0    48.0    70.4    75.3   103.6   117.0   126.3   199.1   103.2   170.5   178.3   194.1
Road A Orldges
Ualnteuuee Tax                0.0      0.0      0.0      1.5      4.2      2.6      9.9     11.6    24.6    22.3    26.4    86.1    62.5
Land Reenue                      134.4   173.6   170.1    171.t   212.4   210.6   244.3   284.0   86.9   401.2   451.7   630.8   007.1                 w
Land Revenue                    94.3   100.7    31.7    60.7    77.2    76.9    74.2    72.4    30.7    30.6              74.6    92.1    02.5    %D
House end Lard
Realstratlen                 89.6    77.9    33.8   104.8   135.2   141.7   170.1   211.6   236.2   820.6   877.1   450.7   524.5
Tom on Property, Income          101.5   174.0   209.9    273.7   829.5    8440    417.5   434.7   642.2   930.0   093.4   829.7   927.1
FE lenm Tax                     0.0    41.0    87.4       53.4     03.7     IL.1    110.1    120.9   198.2   216.0   240.3    162.8   160.1
Seml-PE Income Tax               0.0      0.9      0.3      1.5      2.2      1.4      1.3      1.2      1.0      2.6      2.4      2.7      5.0
Private Fire Tox                 0.0      1.0      0.2      0.3      0.6      0.5      2.0      0.2      1.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    10.0
ledlivdual Income Tax           67.2    91.4   142.7    178.0   212.5   196.0   234.5   204.3   349.6   697.4   625.0    531.2  657.5
ue"ne TYo  trfre Salnries        0.0      9.9      *.1     11.0    11.7    16.3    15.8        20.9    33.4    43.6    50.7    49.7    50.0
Urban HNovo  s.d Lard tax        3.3      6.6      0.3     11.4    14.8    12.1    10.3    18.4    17.4    13.0    19.1    24.2    20.1
Vebhile  Tex                     2.1      1.3      2.4     11.0    10.2    15.3    13.1    22.8    26.8          81.0    31.9    87.7    22.0
Tom en Interest                  0.0    13.2       5.7     11.1      7.0      6.4     10.2      0.7    17.1      13.5     18.1    21.0    55.7
Other Taxee                      9.0      3.1      2.0      5.0      0.1      0.0     14.5      1.8      1.5      0.7      0.3      0.0    26.7
Continued ...



Tabolel .1  (ContInued)
CENTRAL GOVLEHMINT REVENUE
(MeR. Million)
1971/76  1900/01  1981/82  1982/O3  190J/84  1984/86  19S6/b6  1906/87  1987/88  1988/89  19H9/90  1990/91  1991/92
11. Non-Tom Revenues                  204.6    t8a.4    460.2    420.5    672.J    766.1    986.1   1602.7   1697.6   1489.6   2003.6   2666.0   8303.0
Chergeo, Fees and Others             19.2      40.7      66.9     71.6    170.6    203.3    201.7    862.0    078.5    666.3    776.6   1012.6   1130.0
flrm 4-gietatlen                    0.1       2.1      3.4       t.2       7.4       7.                 11.7      12.9     It.9      18.4      19.0      26.6
Arme  Reglstration                  0.2      0.7       0.        :.e       06        0:.       0.9       1.0       1.0      0.9       0.9       1.0       1.2
V-bicle Llcenooo                    0.4      2.0       *.1       2.1       0.8       0.2       7.1       7.7       9.1     11.0      11.6    1I.1        17.9
Judiclary                           4.0      7.0       9.6      10.1      11.3      11.7      15.5      16.8     27.3      2t.0      27.9      30.4      30.2
Adinistratlon                      14.0     34.9      41.1      62.3    144.?    266.0    172.1    816.9    626.2    600.7    711.9    946.5   IO16.2
Soles of commoditle  A service    44.9    171.9    109.4    162.9    226.7    263.1    J06.6    311.4    348.2    340.1    396.6    613.4    742.9
Oriniln Water                       0.2       0.6       0.5      0.0       0.8       1.2       1.4       1.6       1.6       1.9      2.1       2.4       2.7
Irrigation                          0.3      0.5       0.6       0.6       1.0       1.0       0.5       1.2       3.0      3.5       1.9       1.0       2.0
flectricity                         6.3       6.2       4.1      4.1      24.4      26.9       1.7       1.2       2.2      0.6       0.6       0.8       0.7
Postal Serviceo                     9.5      20.9      23.9     22.7      t2.4      37.3      36.4      44.3      60.6     67.6      59.6      68.0      69.6
Feed and Agrieulture                0.0       7.4       7.o     10.6      11.7      13.4      31.2      17.6      2t.2     22.0      2t.7      25.3      27.0
EdueatIon                           1.1       1.2       6.3      3.6       6.3       6.7       6.9       9.8      10.6      12.9     13.0      16.2      17.5
Foreot                             24.0     90.5    118.0    65.9         60.6      90.6    116.8    129.3    101.1        75.5    112.7    136.3    164.1
Transport                           6.4      25.3      19.2     U6.2      41.2      32.4      46.0      37.5      44.6     68.3      63.4      76.7    123.5
Other*                              0.0      15.1      16.J     31.3      47.3      44.7      01.2      69.0    100.5      99.0    119.3    194.7    636.6
Dlvidends                            93.6      37.3    106.4    119.0    109.0        66.2    110.1    106.6    117.2    198.6    233.8    469.6    697.8
FlnancIal InstitutIon               0.0      33.9    101.1    114.4    103.5        31.1      97.5    101.0    115.1    179.t    227.4    465.6    629.7
Trading Concerno                    0.0       0.1       0.0      0.1       0.1       2.0       o.3       1.1       0.2     11.8       0.4       0.9       0.0
Industrial Undertakings             0.0       8.2       6.3      4.5       2.4       1.1      11.8       4.6       1.9      8.9       6.0       0.0      68.0
Service Sector                      0.0       0.1       0.1      0.1       3.0       0.0       0.4       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       3.0       0.1
Reoalty and Soles of Fixed Ass        4.6       8.0      16.e       9.2     40.6       31.7     32.6      26.4      26.7      a6.6      40.1      15.4     47.0
Roysity free MInig                 0.0       1.3       1.6       1.4      1.7       2.6       2.6       4.1       6.9       3.2       1.4       1.t      1.8
Royalty from ElectrIcIty            4.0       0.2       0.0                0.2                           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other loyaltles                     0.0       1.6       2.5      2.0       2.6      16.1       6.3      11.6       5.9      10.1      26.6      14.1     45.2
Others                              0.0       5.0      12.5      6.1      36.1      13.9      24.7       9.6      18.9      26.6     13.1       0.0       0.0
Mint                                  0.0      21.3       6.a       6.9       3.7       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      12.7       3.2
Principle and Interest Repsyme    *2.0         30.1      29.2      47.7    117.4    101.6    824.6    300.3    360.6    343.0    629.8    498.2    660.7
Losa Repayment                     10.5      16.5      11.5     84.0      67.1      67.5    136.7    160.9    150.4    176.9    260.8    261.4    568.7
Interest                           18.5      12.6      16.2     12.0      49.2      31.2    186.1    148.3    207.4    163.4    273.4    238.5    801.6
Others                              0.0       1.1       1.4       1.2      1.1       0.9       1.7       1.1       0.6       0.7       0.6       0.3      0.4
Miscellsneous                        10.6      16.1      64.2       3.3      6.3       9.9      10.5       7.1      71.4      14.0      26.8      43.8     21.4
Total Revenue (I * II)               1115.7   2419.2   2679.5   2040.6   3409.t   3910.6   4644.8   5974.6   7350.4   7776.4   9287.5  10731.3  13a03.2
Sources Fl acile! Ceeptrell-r Gonerrl's Offie;l snd Ministry of Flnnnce.



.61. 1.12
b tDITUt  OF THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
ib. Millie.)
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ ___-_
1976/76   1990/31  1901/32  1902/63  1"96/64  1914/05  1966/68  1936/07   1967/63   1939/89  1969/90   1990/91  1991/92
1.  Regular Expenditure             674.5   1861.0   1634.4   1997.1   2273.6   2906.2   3564.0    4123.8    4822.1   5676.4   8671.9   7574.8   9028.6
Constitutlenl Or1ann              20.4      81.9     60.4     64.4    56.0       60.9    113.2      132.2     106.2       91.2     103.7    191.1    201.9
HM A Royal FPmly                  7.C       9.7     12.3     16.0      17.2     17.3     26.5   - 25.5        26.2       29.6      42.4      42.1     48.8
State Council                     0.3      0.6       0.9      1.2       1.7      2.0      1.9        2.6       2.4        2.5       2.4       2.1      3.2
Parliament                        2.7       4.2      5.3      6.7       7.9      7.7       9.5      11.6       11.2      15.0      13.3      10.1     61.5
Dept of Auditor GOneral           2.1       4.8      4.7      0.6       7.1      6.9       6.1      10.1       11.0      13.6      13.9      14.0     21.6
Sucrsee Court                     0.9       1.5      2.5      3.9       3.6      3.4       3.7       5.1        5.1       6.3       e.0       5.9      9.a
Pu lie Servleo Coiaglon          2.2       3.5      4.7      7.6       6.5      3.6      6.9       12.5       16.4      18.6      14.3      12.8     15.4
Eloctiom Comloesin                4.3      86.5     28.3      4.2       3.7      4.8     48.3       41.9        3.2       6.0       6.5      99.3     45.9
Comiesion for Proventlon
of Misess of Authority          0.0       0.7      0.9      0.9       1.4      1.1       1.1       1.9        1.6       2.0       2.2       1.9      2.3
Atterney General                  0.0       0.6      0.7      8.0       1.5      1.6       1.5       2.2        2.8       2.0        2.7      2.7      3.6
Peancheyet ollcy and
Inveatlati.n Commlttee         0.0      0.0       0.0      4.8      5.4       6.3      6.5       16.7      26.6          -          -        -        -
Other                             0.0       0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         -       0.0       0.0      0.6
General Administration             115.9    218.8    253.1    323.7    361.0    411.2    616.1       698.7      876.7     646.0      983.4   1160.4   1527.6
Counell of Mlmilterr              1.6       2.6      3.6      4.7       3.6      4.0       4.2       4.1        5.3       7.6        7.3      6.7       6.1
HNM Secreteriat                  14.5      26.9     31.2     39.0      41.5     43.3      61.7      91.6       76.6     135.7      136.3    117.2    169.6          H
District Adelultration           15.2      24.0     28.9     37.4      34.7     40.3      43.6      49.9       60.7      08.6      66.1      61.7     69.6
Police                           65.4    146.7    102.9    210.2    287.4    236.0    371.6        409.1      462.1     643.4    064.9    692.2   1159.6
Jell                              6.4      14.1     17.7     21.9      23.5     25.0    10.0        25.8       32.0      39.6       87.0    56.2       67.2
Mlecollonoouo                     9.6       6.2      3.3     10.3      10.2     10.3     12.4       34.4       89.6      62.6      56.1      57.4     63.2
Adeiniatretive Reform             1.1       0.1      0.5      0.0       0.2      0.2       0.6       0.4        1.6       2.4        2.4      0.0      0.0
Natlonal Election Cemnsoion       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        -      0.0
Others                            0.0       0.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0               0.0
Revonue Administration             20.7      36.9     43.9     54.6      68.6     62.9    71.3        95.6      101.0     111.2      124.4    124.7    170.2
Land Revenue                      6.0      16.6     21.1     26.0      26.6     29.1      34.0      42.2       42.6      50.1      55.7      57.8    a3.9
Customs                           6.5       9.9     11.4     15.4      17.1     16.3      23.4      29.5       31.1      80.6       36.1     35.5     44.1
Excise                            2.9       5.1      6.3      6.7       7.1      6.0       6.1      10.4       11.3      13.1       12.4     12.4      16.9
Tox                               2.9       4.0      4.9      6.4       7.4      7.3       9.5      18.0       16.0      16.9       20.7     19.0      24.7
Revenue A Tax Courts              0.4       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.3      0.3       0.4       0.4        0.5       0.5        0.5      0.C      0.8
Economic Ado and Planning           8.6      13.5     19.3     32.1      25.1     28.0      31.5      a6.3       88.2      41.7       47.0     48.4      57.6
Plnning                           0.6       0.7      0.9      0.9       1.1      1.2       1.4       2.0        2.1       2.4        2.7      2.4       3.1
Statist I ca                      1.4       0.7      0.7      0.9       1.0      1.1       1.5       1.6        2.1       2.7        3.1      2.9      83.
FCGO                              2.5       4.2      5.9     20.4      20.9     23.6      26.2      31.5       34.0      36.6      42.0      48.1      61.2
Metric Measurment                 0.6       1.1      1.6      2.0       2.0      2.1       2.4       2.9        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Mint                              u.s       6.6      7.3      7.6       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Continued...



Table 1 .I2CeomtInud)
EXPENDITURE Of THE CENTRAL W0VERNENT
Ms.. Million)
1976/78   1980/l 1901/82  192/83  191C/e4  1984/86  1986/88   1900/87   1987/88   1980/S9  1969/90   1990/91  1991/92
Judlll Administration           10.6    18.5    25.8    38.5         89.9    43.9    61.7        00.3      71.0      79.4       87.0     84.2   108.2
Court                           10.2   12.5    25.0         36.2    89.6      45.6     51.5      65.9      70.6       79.0      87.2     64.2   106.2
Court for Preventlon of
MIeese of Authoritlee         0.0      0.2      0.2       0.a      0.1      0.a      0.3       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.0      0.0
Attorney General                 0.4      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0      0.0
Foreign Services                  24.7    36.1    60.1    52.4         54.9    02.3      71.0      93.7    100.9       160.6     162.1    187.9   228.9
Ferel ga ServIce                16.5     33.2      44.2     44.2    45.5    53.0       01.0      77.0      98.9      130.9    111.3   103.2    201.7
Nice Ilaneoua                    0.8      5.0 6      .9      6.2      9.8      9.J    10.6       30.7       16.0      19.9      It.8     24.7    27.2
Defence                          134.6   259.0   282.6   392.4   463.6   607.9   00G.2    712.4              708.4    8098.7   1027.2   1161.4  1429.0
D0fence                        184.0    211.0    238.3   331.3   311.1    436.4    514.5    602.1    636.0           760.8    622.3   1146.6  1423.0
Miscelrlaneous                   0.0     47.9    49.5    55.1        64.9    72.5      91.7     110.3    110.3    137.9    204.9          5.6      6.0
Social Service.                  141.5    210.3   249.0   320.5   300.4    410.0   493.1          508.2      602.0     034.9    710.1    742.0   939.6
Education                       71.1     90.0   106.7   129.4    187.2   161.4   207.6          242.3    202.6       282.9    31i.7   300.3   402.0
Helith                          83.2    O6.2    00.5   102.3    117.0   139.4   150.0           162.5      204.1     261.1    290.6    293.8   371.4
Drlnhing Water                   0.9      8.1       3.9      6.4      0.0      8.8     10.2      12.3       14.6      16.6       2.6      2.3      3.0
Pancheyat A Local D-vp          16.3    22.5       31.0    61.0      05.0     09.4     69.6      25.1       28.7      80.1       6.4      0.s      I.6
Other Sociel Servleer           14.0    20.6       20.9    30.5      84.5     31.6    36.7       46.0      62.1       54.3      8t.8    71.4    94.3
Economic Services                 72.3    110.2   130.0   105.8   174.0   199.4   232.3    288.1            289.0   a35.5        423.7    374.8   530.7
Agriculture                      5.8      3.4       '.7      4.5      5.2      6.3      0.0       6.3       9.0       29.3      31.0     33.0    40.1
Irrigetlon                       1.7      3.2       3.6      4.7      5.1      5.8      6.2       6.9       7.9       6.7       10.1      4.6      9.1
Land Reform                     10.1     12.9      16.7    18.1      19.2    17.6    23.6        27.4      29.0       11.5      11.9     13.9    15.2
Survey                           2.0      4.2       5.8      0.8      7.4      3.3      9.5      11.8       12.7      14.9      14.9     17.7    20.0
Forest                           5.4      4.0       5.4      7.8      8.0      8.7     10.0      11.3       14.8      15.7      17.8     17.4    23.1
Industry A mining                2.0      2.9       8.4      4.1      4.4      5.2      6.8       3.1      14.5       15.0      10.1     16.1    20.3
Comlunicatle                    19.3     35.6      46.2    56.4      59.6    74.6      90.4     119.1      107.9     131.7     186.5    144.2   238.1
Transportation                  20.4     86.0      40.1     50.8    54.0    61.3    00.4         80.0      86.0      115.9     127.4    120.0   165.1
Electrlclty                      5.1      4.0       5.5      7.7      7.5      8.3      0.9       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Other Economlc Servlce.          1.0      2.1       2.6      1.3      3.4      3.2      8.9       5.0        6.5       7.7       8.9      6.9      11.7
Loans and Investments              4.2      11.3      7.9      a.3      0.0     11.1      9.0        8.0       2.0       8.9       0.7      0.1      10.0
Debt Servicee                     63.7    218.2    250.7   300.9   497.0    076.2   1019.3   1190.0   1441.0    1720.7    2279.2  2407.4   a797.2
AmortIsatlon                    16.1      60.3   103.3      93.6   168.5   174.7   842.8        360.6    897.5       634.1     602.3    7a9.0  1201.0
Interest                        47.6   129.9   152.9   213.3    331.1   503.5   616.5    64a.0    1044.1    1186.6    1476.9  1668.4   2690.2
Micollaneoum                     57.1   100.7    254.2   262.5    199.6   420.7    304.7         389.2    468.8       742.4     739.9   1075.8   027.8
travelling Expenses              6.4      6.3      10.0    12.4      20.3    13.1    38.0        40.1       25.2      15.6      61.0      7.9    10.0
Pension Allowancee              12.5     21.6      21.7    42.4      44.7     59.3    98.1      119.8    102.3       113.0     144.6    190.1   295.0
Heepitality                      0.3      0.1       0.1      0.0      0.2      0.3      0.5       0.        1.1       0.3       0.5      0.3       1.0
Emrg"ey  Donutlon, Prlze.        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.2
COMPen.tlm           '           0.7      0.4       0.6      0.7      0.4      0.3      0.3       1.2       1.0        0.0       5.5      0.0      10.0
Mlec.laeeu.                     22.7     39.7      68.9     31.0    73.4    n9.4    140.3    154.4        211.2      150.3    401.0    153.0    211.0
ContInency                      14.5   "3.4    157.7   116.3         49.7   257.1      32.0      71.3     113.1      441.1     187.3   724.8   100.0
-----------------                ------ -       -- --  -  -----------------  -   -  ----  -  - -  ---------------------    -   ------ --  -  -------------------------------d -
Continued ...



XttNDmtU t         CtENTAL OOv!3UIENT
(1g4. miliIon)
1975/76   190/31  1911/12  1902/38  1911/14  1914/U1  1906/68   1930/87   1937/88   1968/39  1939/90   1990/91  1991/92
II. Development Etpendlture          123U.9   27a1.1   3726.9   4962.1   6163.3   5488.0   8213.1    7377.9    9428.1   12328.7   12997.6  15980.1  14945.7
Omnrcl Administration                 0.6       0.7       2.9      7.9      13.0      11.9      10.3       16.3       24.4       35.0       14.3     11.3      13.0
Adlniebratlvo Reform                0.6       0.7     219        7.9      18.0      11.3      10.3        6 18.3    24.4       36.0      14.5      11.8      13.0
Economic Administratlon               4.4      30.0      14.4     20.2      16.4       6.2       4.0        4.0        S.9       10.1       10.6     63.3      56.6
Pi:nni,                             0.6       0.0      0.1       9.0      10.9       2.7       1.9        1.2        1.0        4.1        *.4      6.2       7.3
PtI:Nt;!ct,1c3 9.0                          21.2       6.2      10.6       4.6       2.6       2.1        2.0        4.3        6.0       7.4      79.1      51.3
Social Service.                    U20.9    572.8   1069.8   1640.2   1493.5   1501.2   1099.6    2036.3    2433.3    3309.2    3973.2   3670.2   4496.4
Education                        162.3    266.6    412.8    004.6    079.6    644.2    979.4    1036.5    1226.3    1453.6    1479.0   1711.9   2296.7
Health                             93.3      97.6    152.6    216.3    199.3    264.6    255.9          309.2      365.2      616.0     393.9    366.9    529.6
Drlking Water                      29.4      73.2    107.6    241.9    220.9    201.0    226.3          274.2      236.3      469.3     617.4    530.6    864.2
Panaboyat A Local D-vp             29.6      90.0    270.3    335.1    834.5    339.3    260.3          317.0      442.7      456.6      454.1    321.3    417.1
Other Social Services              16.3      20.0    116.7    142.2       59.7      61.3      56.5       99.5      142.4      806.5    1026.1    628.7    391.9
Economic Services                   692.0   2101.0   2566.1   3267.1   3582.5   3617.1   4414.5    6108.5    6751.6    8241.6    0200.6  11893.1  10276.7
AgrIculture                      201.3    261.0    466.0    668.6    647.1    703.6    865.2            661.7      928.9    1016.2    1133.5   1634.6   1333.2
Irrlgatlen                        93.1    206.2    369.6    437.4    564.2    C62.2    346.7            648.3      064.7    1623.2    1204.9   1116.7   1701.7
Land reform                         9.6      12.2     16.3      20.6      21.4      17.9      13.9       26.7       19.6       29.3       36.6     40.4      35.1
Svrvey                             18.2      30.2     87.7      45.6      46.9      40.7      40.7       67.5       72.1       60.3       64.5     69.9      33.3         Li
Fer et                             37.0      63.3    185.4    226.1    234.5    290.4    365.0    a33.4            449.5      566.7      547.2    460.1  oo8.3
Induetry A Mining                118.6    128.2    260.6    373.0    651.3    847.0    397.5            377.0     604.0      564.3    1049.0   1751.5   2226.4
comunicatlef                        9.4     30.9      49.2      74.4      97.2      90.4    IW9.6       139.3      619.0      874.7     126.4      56.7    181.6
Pout Office                     1.2       3.2       4.9       4.1       2.1       6.2     42.9         1.9        8.2        6.0       1.3       2.1       2.6
Tele-cesunications              6.1      27.7      44.8      70.2      95.1      86.1    86.6       137.9      516.0      366.7      126.6      54.6    179.0
TransportatIon                   336.9    601.3    744.0    002.2    746.0    928.0    717.0           966.0    1214.3    1357.2    1690.1   1979.6   2249.3
Read*                          203.1    472.2    543.4    623.9    616.7    519.6    566.1           792.2      953.4    1892.0    1090.6   1876.6   1866.1
Bridges                         30.9      64.9      56.6      43.6      41.4      68.5     49.9        42.8      112.4      114.3      61.4    202.0    165.6
Clvil Aviation                 102.9      74.2    144.1    134.7        69.7    341.1    100.3        150.4      143.0      316.4     410.3    394.2    332.0
Others                           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       2.9       0.3        0.6        0.0       84.5        7.6       7.7     68.4
Electricity                       43.6    653.2    802.2    442.8    658.0    504.9   1035.4    1239.2    1924.7    2003.4    2087.6   1363.1   1243.2
Other Economic Servicoe            19.1      15.6     47.2    143.9       40.0      46.9      41.6      415.6      164.6      145.9     306.7   3619.6    553.6
Miscellaneoue                        21.0      26.3      93.9    126.7      59.4    353.3       34.6      160.7      212.6      732.1      796.7    422.2    100.0
Uiecollaneuun                      16.3       6.4     59.2      90.4      20.6      54.3      20.7       76.3       30.3      212.9      513.0       0.0      0.0
Contlneency                         4.6     20.5      34.7      36.3      36.3    299.0       63.3       74.4      182.8      519.9     230.7    422.2    100.0
Total Expenditure (I # 11)           1913.4   4092.1   5361.3   6979.2   7437.3   8394.9   9797.1   11501.6   14050.1   16005.1   19869.5  23664.7  24574.5
/1  Am"nt for salary linrose laclueldW.
bI  Includeg moS of 11a. 372.1 fo  flnoalcl sector refer.
* hostess ri...i.l eComptrollr 0eforall Otfles.



Table 1 13
AREA, PROOUCT1T4 AND YIELD OF PRINCIPAL FOOD CROPS
Food Crops              1976/70  1980/81  1901/02  1982/63  1901/34  1964/96  1986/86  1988/67  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
Ar-s              1268      1276      1297      1286       1354      1a77      13iC      1333      1423      1460       1433      14S6      1412
Paddy    Productlon         2005      2404      2180      1611       2751      2709      2604      2872      2962      3283      6590       3602      5221
Yleld             2.07      1.33      1.97      1.45      2.07       1.97      2.02      1.78      2.10      2.26      2.57      2.41       2.28
Area               468       457       475       611        504       679       815       e27       874        722      761        768       764
Maize    Production          746       741       752       716        761       920       674       6e0       902       1072      1201      1251      1206
Ylld             1.03      1.68      1.56      1.41       1.51      1.42      1.42      1.66      1.54      1.48       1.60      1.82      1.00
Arer               529       592       400       484        472       452       463       638       697        699      804        693       672
Wh-et    Productln          197       477       t20       as7       614        534       566       701       745        630       686       6a3       706
Yleld             1.16      1.22      1.62      1.86       1.84      1.16      1.24      1.51      1.25      1.69       1.41      1.41      1.34
Area                28        27        27         24        25        26        29        29        29         29        50        ao        30
Barley   Production           25        21         21        21        22        24        2S        26         24        27        27        29        28
Yield             0.9S      0.86      0.96      0.68      0.96      0.96       0.79      0.66      0.61      0.96      0.90       0.94      0.93
Area               126       122       122        129       124       134       161       161       1e6        183       193       199       198
Millet   Pr ductIon          141       122       122        121       116       124      1to       IU         150       165       226       232       229
yield             1.13      1.00      1.00      0.94      0.96       0.93      0.91      0.91      0.91       1.00      1.17      1.17      1.16
Index of Food Crops (1974/75 . 100)
Area               102       106       108        111       115       120       126       126       115       19        141       142       13a
Production         102       101       105         It       114       111       117       109        127       141       151       154       144
Yleld            101.2      95.5      97.3      76.7       96.6      92.6      94.1      91.7      94.1    102.5    101.l    106.0    104.2
Unite t Area - Thousand Hectar*ew Production - Thousand M.Tone; Yield - 1T7ons/Hectare.
O Prowllsonal.
Source; Department of Food and Agricultural Marketing Services.



T.4l. 1.14
PNOUXTl24 W PrfINcirAL HA1c4AFAMINO CenlrTBE
3..d...9.3.2 P ,  t-.4C..    LM3t                 2935/76  1960/,1  3ls1/02  I962/65  1962/64  1294/U  2941/a6   1966161  1907/60  3966/69   lost/s0  1990/91  1991/92
J.&. 0ec.                 M. T-a.                 26994     62364    2502   l39l3       2ll2   20026    16349    16269    17191    36930             7473    11170    17260
9.6,                      14. Tea                 10632    Ji0m0    20764    2156        114"     3 l069    S6lto    24166    80040    24397        53927    44546    52000
Cles.ret.                  Mll ISI,. of SA..    2447        t632ll    20584      o         742     4292      474U      6400      6046      s661      6317      6692      717
MICh..                     Th. Ge.._                67e       62s      I0        68       1121    I3t        11 44       14      1213      2272       1225      3093      710
LI...t .                   Th. Use*T   L"a.0                 I'        471       55        A"      3021      1264      363       236       2092        460     2626      2025
se                        t4N. Tea                  970     2631    3060          0o    5694       7676      9163     23460    1230       1468       33*4     20051     361"0
61.. ..                    Tl. polIo                 s9        62       62        5         is        u        22       322       234       52         744      2009     1201
Leowther                   T. Sq. Ft.                                                                                 12421      6274      7327      2205     24274    10338
AerIc.lt.r1 T-l1         M. l-..                    9n                I5        3616      481      540       391       565       297       264        25        IIJI     485
To.                       M. T-e                    566      an        626       724       62r      96u      1062      1122      2290      1364       2595      3240     2U42
sbial.. Steol Uolesll H. Tons.                     ISI7       470      46        574       49        M        425       421       569       257        S6e       266       143
r616i A IlCes *            Th. PIein              5069O   21642    t01064      m06t    29760    2824    26462    33874    54629    53440             3i6t2  2 32121    5396
10*r                       Tb. Liters               131      1469     3176      it"       8328      "6s      56         6e       5276      6201       6131   l2n 10 723t
Ceaste  T.t..             Tlb. Mtor-               4211      "it      6966      79461    0240   l36         14326    37622        9134     7061        2        6121141 421  6249
Coeec                      P. 1'..                26955    32326    30378    56969    321    52479    96045   156131   226010   237666    10327I   23569?   234638
*I.e.Il                    4. T1.                   645     Is67      2267      127       Nu       4539      4696      4568      4674      446        4430         -     st07
Pl,moed                    Tl. 6..f.                fo0      4249     4647      56        44 1     267       20"3      244       1354      253is         0       266      337
l,ath.ble To.411I          Th. M     .             322r,  Ilt  2529    s2       5         sel      am0       6424    l36l    32sas    121146         2585    13644    16744
soft Drl0.9                Th. Litr.                            _         . -  -                      _         _    12484    29          122t70 t   15tO    I42 2tOII 220
Ory Coll ft%I.rI.          Th. "S.                    -         -         -        -         -         -         -     6376    lo6    2005           10764    2a8        2441 
*        .. seter Wbel.  al           c.....  ..   *lS.l.dod.
. BaedIa. C_*mlry LIq..
"el  29O/62 dat. pr"Iole.l hosed                . a als  sethe. -.*..
6.r-l.  C_cIrl 6..... of 6ste6I.les 8t Deeriaga of kJ.4I.,  ..d PePal  Meet.. 1eck.



Tabl 1.15
NATIONAL MOAN CONSUMR PRICE INDEX
Annual Average (1972/78 a 100)
1975/70  1990/61  1981/32  1902/63  1903/S4  1364/96  1986/88  1986/87  1987/13  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92
Food and Bewerage.              136.7    199.9    221.9   267.4   270.9    274.6    326.4   3174.1    420.1    449.4    492.4    642.1    674.4
Reutmurant M11li                147.4    242.0    259.5   272.0   260.6    299.6   364.9    416.9    465.2    100.9   610.4    696.9   862.2
Oralre and Cereal products     312.2   161.6    191.9   242.1    239.0    223.9   36l.3   3*2.1    339.6    360.6    870.2    894.6   122.5
raises                           124.7   252.6    264.0    274.1   309.4   341.1    394.0    412.0    604.5    694.5    666.3    769.6   693.3
VegetmbI.g                      146.6    236.6    211.2    265.1   631.1 3. 5.5    421.6    476.7   127.6    616.1   735.0    *01.4    196.1
Spice.                          161.3    247.0    308.3   347.7    356.3    406.2    46.1    56C.5   6688.9   697.9   606.0   966.6   1546.3
Most, Flsb and Eggs             115.6    245.1    259.1   262.7   311.2   U3.3    396.3   469.9    110.3    171.0    646.3   727.7   861.4
Milk sad Milk Prodect 151.0    204.2    234.0    265.4   296.6    135.0   306.0   421.0    465.1   140.9   620.9    967.9   311.6
Oil and Clerified Butter        116.0   257.4    264.9   262.t   315.6    829.4   340.6    435.3    460.7   407.6    419.7    533.0   641.2
Saier                           135.5    227.0    824.3   199.1   134.5    206.3   255.6    270.0    278.1    286.3   360.6    316.0   332.2
Beverages                       133.2    190.1    109.1   232.6   265.4    283.7   317.0   340.6    849.1   396.9    602.4   541.6 0             16.5
Non-Feed It.  sad Services       139.6   204.9    224.0   247.7   266.7   295.3   327.1   356.1    390.5    413.1    476.2    519.6    597.5
Cloth Clethleg and
Slng Servieo.                 126.1    165.7    183.9    196.1    211.6    222.9    243.6   267.0    287.0   306.6   361.5    393.3   452.7
Feetweer                         140.6    112.7    196.0   214.2   226.9   246.1   271.8    299.7    806.3    III.0    869.1    897.0   449.9
Houling                          147.6    247.0    274.0   115.1   350.6    399.2    441.0   414.6    524.3   519.9  6II1.$             60.7   674.4
Fvelg Light and Water            155.0    267.9    319.6  a31.1   417.3    496.4    127.9    546.0    597.2   722.4    "63.9    945.4   1104.2
Treasport h Cemuemictimen        155.7    227.3    284.1    240.0    261.6   204.6   311.7   349.9    390.8    894.0    476.3   479.6   563.4
Medical and Pereenal Care        185.9   115.7    192.0   205.6   219.7    240.4    274.9    800.1    339.1    331.6   362.8    383.4   435.0
Eduetloe, leeding Material.                                                             i
and hRereatlen                135.2    212.2    225.2   245.0   259.9    273.1   3t1u.3    343.6    366.5    394.9    444.1    492.5    653.6
Clgarettea                       144.7    178.6    165.4    204.4   210.7    221.6    251.6    219.6    296.4    28.0    3316.1    374.9   448.9
All Itass                        137.0    201.4    222.4   254.0   269.9   230.9   326.5    s66.7    409.3   435.2   406.4    533.0    644.9
Percentage Change                 -0.7     13.4     10.4    14.2        6.2      4.1     15.9    13.3       11.0      6.8      11.5      9.6     21.0
Sevre:t Nep"l Rstrea lank.



- 47 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2046-NEP)
Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche
(a)   Satisfactory progress in implementation of the program.
(b)   a satisfactory revision of the medium-term policy framework as evidenced
by, for example, the third-year Policy Framework Paper (PFP), and
(c)   full operationalization of the automatic fertilizer price adjustment
mechanism, will be taken into consideration.
Conditions for Release of the Third Tranche
(a)   Adoption of a budget for fiscal year 1990 which shall include:
(i)   new revenue mobilization and enhanced fiscal administrative
measures to raise revenues of about NRs300,00,000;
(ii)   domestic financing not to exceed NRsl,400,000,000; and
(iii)   allocations, satisfactory to the Association, for operation and
maintenance expenditures, for the irrigation, transport, power and
education public sectors.
(b)   Adopt an action plan and time-table satisfactory to the Association for
the gradual elimination of the five-year income tax exemption provided in sub-
paragraphs (b)(l), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of Section 10 of the Borrower's Indus-
trial Enterprise Act, 2038 (1982).
(c)   Take all such actions as shall be necessary to expand the list of
imports in the OGL/Passbook System so as to cover at least 50% of non-aid
Third Country imports.
(d)   Adopt procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for import license
auctioning.
(e)   Adopt a simplified duty drawback system for import of goods required in
the manufacturing of exportable goods, satisfactory to the Association.
(f)   Adopt a schedule of payments for the Borrower's Fiscal Years 1990, 1991
and 1992, satisfactory to the Association, to make current during the Borrowe-
r's Fiscal Year 1992 all government-guaranteed commercial bank loans made to
public enterprises as of July 15, 1989, which loans are overdue by at least
six months, and make actual payments of the amounts corresponding to Fiscal
Year 1990.



- 48 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
(g)   Taking satisfactory action to strengthen and improve the financial and
economic performance of the Rastriya Banijya Bank and the Nepal Bank Limited,
including provisions for bad debts, recapitalization and debt recovery
targets, satisfactory to the Association.
(h)   Taking satisfactory actions to allow for income tax deductions of
provisions of bad debts and suspended interest made by commercial banks and
other financial institutions.
(i)   Taking satisfactory actions to enable the Nepal Rastra Bank to exercise
a supervisory role over NIDC pursuant to Section 23 A of the Nepal Rastra Bank
Act, 2012 (1955).
(j)   Satisfactory progress on the implementation of the Borrower's irrigation
development strategy including:
(i)    adoption of an action plan and time-table satisfactory to the
Association, to establish and thereafter maintain an irrigation
management division within the Department of Irrigation of the
Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources;
(ii)    increase emphasis on the operation and maintenance of existing
publicly managed irrigation schemes, inter alia, by providing
adequate budgetary allocations and promoting farmers' participa-
tion;
(iii)    handing over to farmers of management and ownership of small-and
medium- scale publicly managed irrigation schemes; and
(iv)    establishment of improved mechanisms for full recovery of opera-
tion and maintenance costs and, taking into account farmers'
payment capacity, a portion of investment costs in all government-
managed irrigation schemes, and adoption of an action plan and
time-table satisfactory to the Association for their implementa-
tion.



NEPAL: SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Policy Area and Objectives          Actions Taken Under SAL I                     SAL II Actions to be Taken                     SAL 11                   Implementation
Timetable                Dates/Cormments
MACROECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT
(a) Revenue Enhancement
Increase fiscal efficiency      Implemented program agreed           Adopt a FY90 budget that includes NRs300 mil-       July 89              New revenue measures totalling
through enhanced tax base,      with Bank and IMF.                  lion additional revenue through new measures and                          NRs500 million a year an-
increased elasticity, im-                                            requires domestic financing of less than NRsl.4                          nounced in three successive
proved tax administration       Met all macroeconomic                billion.                                                                 budgets in July 89, July 90 and
and improved efficiency of      benchmarks.                                                                                                   July 91.
tax structure.
Simplified import tariffs and                                                                                 Domestic financing limited to
sales taxes.                                                                                                  annual average of NRsI355
million in FY90 and FY91.
Close Ministry of Finance against personnel trans-   Before Board        Done in June 89; establishment
fers from other agencies, with view to establishing  presentation'       of Unified Revenue Service
Unified Revenue Service.                                                 took place in 1992.
Prepare an action plan to eliminate tax holidays     Before third        Action plan prepared in March
gradually. Implement the first year action.          tranche';           90; implemented in budgets of
July 90             July 90 and July 91. Imple-
mentation subsequendy slowed
down.
Commence study to enhance efficiency of indirect     FALL 89             IMF Study completed in June
tax systems.                                                             89.
Take initial steps to enhance indirect tax system    FY90                New Sales Tax Dept. set up in          >
recommended by the study.                                                FY90.                               P
Convert specific excises on brick, sugar and cook-   FY90 Budget         Implemented in FY90 budget.            X
ing oil to ad valorem tax.
o H
co



Policy Area and Objectives        Actions Taken Under SAL I                    SAL 11 Actions to be Taken                  SAL 11                 Implementation
Timetable               Dates/Comments
(b) Development Expenditure
Manaement
Improve O&M of develop-                                          Provide adequate O&M oudays in FY90 budget         July 1989           Implemented, July 89
ment projects.                                                   agreed by IDA and HMG for irrigation, transport,
power and education sectors.
Improve efficiency dtrough     Introduced program budgeting in   Extend program budgeting to nine sectors;          Before Board'      Implemented, May 89
better prioritizing and moni-  five sectors (agriculture, iffiga-
toring of projects.           tion, power, forestry and trans-   Start Phase m of Program budgeting and project     FY90                Implemented, April 90
port).                            monitorng (PB/PM) project and institutionalize
monitoring in nine line ministies and agencies.
Fonmuated core development
budget.                           Establish a formal Resource Committee; ensure      Before Board'       Implemented. Resource Com-
satisfactory functioning.                                             mittee established in early 1988      Ln
Introduced project monitoring by                                                                         and continued functioning; but
installing the systems and moni-                                                                        its effectiveness was less than
toring 13 key projects.                                                                                 envisaged.
Initiated study for improvement   Designate 35 high priority (high economic retum)   FY90 budget         Implemented; funding alloca-
of accounting and auditing prac-  projects to ensure that these projects receive local                   tions were made, but system not
tices.                            finds expeditiously.                                                   effective because of continuing
institutional weaknesses (see
below).
Expedite implementation of                                       Improve budgetary fund release mechanism by        Before Board'      Implemented in second quarter
high priority projects                                           delinking fund releases from procedures to control                    of 1989; but led to considerable
hirough smoodh budgetary                                         budgetary irregularities.                                             unaccounted expenditures and
release.                                                                                                                               leakages; therefore, releases
again tightened, especially in
light of tight fiscal situation.
0 H



Policy Area and Objectives        Actions Taken Under SAL I                    SAL n Actions to be Taken                   SAL II                  hnplementation
Tinetable               Dates/Comments
(c) Trade Policy
Create trade regime that       Simplified tariff structure;      Increase items under OGU/annual passbook so that   up to 35%,          Accomplished before Board.
supports efficient industrial  stramlined export and import      OGL/annual passbook covers minimum of 35 % of      before Board'
development by allowing        procedures.                       non-aid third country imports for FY89; and in-
exporters to compete with                                        crease coverage to at least 50% in FY90.           up to 50% by       Implemented by Feb. FY90;
foreign producers and          Implemented policies specified                                                       July 90             later increased to 83 % by July
equalizing incentives for     in industrial policy statement.                                                                           1991.
exporters and producers of
import substitutes.                                              Start prompt drawback refunds to ready-made        Before Board'       Implemented in mid-1989; fur-
garments producers.                                                   ther improved in 1990.
Announce prior exemption from import duties on    FY90                Announced in mid-1989; fully
wool for carpet industry from FY90. Implement     (Tranche III)      implemented in early 1990.
effectively during program.                                           This was a major factor contrib-
uting to the explosive growth of
carpet exports subsequently.
Extend drawback system to all exports.            In FY90             Announced in early FY90; but
(Tranche I11)      later withdrawn because of ad-
ministrative problems, and
significant depreciation of ex-
change rate.
Increase allocation for import license auction to  Before Board'      Implemented in FY89 and
NRsl.5 billion.                                                       substantiafly expanded to NRs.
3.5 billion in FY92.
Streamline auction system by replacing product-   FY90                Implemented in FY90. Auction
specific bids by broad commodity groups, and      (Tranche HI)        system streamlined and substan-
determining auction premia according to marginal                     tially expanded.
bidding.                                                                                                 >
Initiate and make satisfactory progress on study to  Initiated in     Started in FY90; completed in   D XD
assess comparative cost structure, export diversifi-  FY90            FY91. Study's recommenda-       w
cation, and marketing.                                                tions were subsequently utilized  o
for making changes in industri-  *



Policy Area and Objectives          Actions Taken Under SAL I                      SAL II Actions to be Taken                    SAL II                   Implementation
Timetable                Dates/Comments
al, tariff & exchange rate poli-
cies.
(d) Macroeconomic
Manatement
Prepare Third Year Policy Framework Paper           Before               PFP approved by Bank Board in
(PFP).                                              Tranche 11'          November 89.
Satisfactory progress in implementing the pro-      Before               Progress reviewed by Bank (and
gram.                                               Tranche 113          Fund) staff and deemed satisfac-
tory.
AGRICULTURE
(a) Fertilizer Distribution
Increase supply and timely      Allowed private dealers where       Increase fertilizer imports by 50 percent; import     Before Board'       Implemented in FY89; foreign
availability of fertilizers to  sajhas (co-operatives) are not       ahead of peak demand period.                                             exchange availability for fettiliz-
increase agricultural produc-   functioning.                                                                                                  er no longer a problem. But
tion.                                                                                                                                         AIC could not make timely
Maintained rough pafity with                                                                                 imports in FY91 and FY92.
Liberalize fertilizer distribu-  Indian prices to minimize price-
tion system.                    induced smuggling.                   Deregulate fertilizer distribution by: decontrolling  Before Board'      Implemented in May/June 1989;
number of dealers per zone; reducing zone restric-                       but because of continued prob-
Increase automaticity in                                            tions on dealers; allowing private dealers in areas                       lems in actual working, Tranche
price adjustment to reduce                                           where sajhas are active; and allowing all dealers to                     11 was held up. Subsequent
price-induced smuggling to                                           appoint subdealers.                                                      action taken to improve the
India.                                                                                                                                        situation.
Achieve at least retail price parity with Indian    Tranche 11'          Implemented in November 89;
prices for all fertilizers.                                              Retail price parity maintained    '  1>
satisfactorily since.            x, D
(D M
xI
Monitor Indian wholesale prices, to maintain        Begin FY90           Implemented; ongoing.             .ts
parity at the wholesale level.                                                                             0  '-4



Policy Area and Objectives        Actions Taken Under SAL I                    SAL II Actions to be Taken                  SAL II                 Implementation
Thnetable               Dates/Comments
Undertake study on storage, transport and basic   Tranche IIP         Started in FY89; completed in
fertilizer strategy; and implement recommenda-                        FY90. Some of the study's
tions.                                                               recommendations on privatiza-
tion are currentdy being imple-
mented.
(b) Iniation
Implement new strategy         Not addressed in SAL I; but,      Issue and implement guidelines to DOI and chief
emphasizing greater collab-    high level Irrigation Sector       district Officers on simplified registration of water  Before Board'  Implemented. Guidelines issued
oration between HMG and        Steering Committee established     user associations.                                                    by June 89; registration of
farmers in irrigation devel-  to guide implementation of new                                                                            water users' associations begun
opment and O&M.                strategy;                                                                                                shordy afterwards.                    U'
DOI manpower human resources      Establish a group within DOI for cost recovery.    Tranche 1112       Small group initially set up in
study completed;                  supporting and coordinating farmer organizations,                     DOI before Board presentation.
and monitoring O&M of DOI managed schemes.
DOI in-house training center
(IMC) established and task force  Based on experience gained, establish formal       Tranche II12       Convening this into a full-
established to study appropriate  irrigation management division.                                       fledged Division within DOI
cost recovery methods.                                                                                  was delayed till October 91.
Prepare a cost recovery action plan and implement  Tranche 1P         Action plan prepared in 1989.
it satisfactorily.                                                    Implementation was delayed
because existing legal frame-
work was inadequate. Subse-
quently, the Water Resources
Act was revised in early 1992;
and implementation started in
pilot projects.
Provide adequate budget allocations for O&M.      Trancbe 1112       Implemented; O&M allocations   X  X
of NRs6I million provided in    LA
FY90, NRs68 million in FY91    o  a-
and NRs82 million in FY92.    a-
oo



Policy Area and Objectives         Actions Taken Under SAL I                   SAL II Actions to be Taken                  SAL 11                 Implementation
Thnetable              Dates/Comments
Prepare action plan for turnover of smaller irriga-  Tranche lIII     Action plan approved in early
tion schemes to farmer associations; and                              FY90.
Implement pilot-level turnover.                   Tranche 1112        Despite delays, pilot-level pro-
grams were implemented in 3
irrigation systems in FY91 and
FY92. Programs were subse-
quently extended to other
schemes.
Prepare action plan to improve coordination be-   FY902              Implemented. Arrangements
tween irrigation and agricultural service agencies.                  for regular inter-agency meet-
ings and for co-ordination of
activities set-up in FY90 and
started functioning; ongoing.        en
FINANCIAL SECTOR
Encourage healthy develop-     Not addressed in                  Prepare independent Commercial Banks' Problem      October 89         Implemented. (See below).
ment of commercial banking     SAL 1.                            Analysis and Strategy Study (CBPASS) of RBB
sector.                                                          and NB.
Strengthen government-                                           Commence CBPASS by August 1, 1989 and com-         Trnche IIP          Selection of consultants delayed
owned Commercial Banks.                                          plete by second tnrche; and on basis of study,                         star up; study completed in late
take provisions and pay in new capital according                      1990.Supplementary Budget (on
Strengthen NRB supervision                                        to a provisioning schedule and capital adequacy                       March 1991) enacted to provide
and regulatory framework.                                         ratios that NRB specifies after agreeing with IDA.                    funding for provisioning and
recapitalization as agreed with
Improve Financial Environ-                                                                                                             IDA.
ment.
Prepare an action plan to bring all guaranteed    Tranche 111'        Implemented; payments of
Liberalize most interest                                         loans current in three years and make the initial                      NRs400 million made in FY90
rates.                                                           payments for FY90; thereafter, cause all PEs to                        budget and another NRs260          > .
bring their loans current through repayment and                       million in FY91 budget. All       :D
appropriate rescheduling.                                             outstanding loans (NRsl.9       0  0
billion) were fully paid in
March 1991.                        1-4



= = = = = = = = - = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =  = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =  = = = = = =   =
Polcy Area and Objecives          Actions Taken Under SAL I                    SAL n Acions to be Taken                    SAL II                 implementation
Thnetabl                Dateu/Com _mis
Preparm and action plan for improving debt recov-  FY90               Action plan prcpared by Junc
ery and achieve satisfactory debt recovery.                           89 and implemented in FY90
and FY91. Recoveries from
public sector satisfactory but
those from private sector lagged
behind.
Establish and operate satisfactorily Credit Infor-  Before Board'    Implemented; functioning effec-
mation Bureau (CB).                                                  tively in FY90.
Start improving accounting, credit process, budget-  FY90             Implementation delayed due to
ing, MIS, liquidity managemcnt and computeriza-                      late completion of CBPASS.
tion of the two banks as recommended by                               Improvenents initiated in
CBPASS.                                                               FY91; but progress has been
very slow.                            n
Complete branch efficiency study, and star imple-  FY90               Study started and completed in
menting recommendations.                                              FY90. However, litde progress
has been made in implementing
the recommendations because of
a lack of ckar policy towards
the banks.
Initiate and complete the IMF TA.                 FY90                Completed in early 1990; pro-
vided the basis for strengthening
supervision capacity of NRB.
Establish new loan reclassification system and    Tranche 111'        Implemented in May 91.
accounting policies for provisions and interest sus-
pension.
Implement satisfactory provisions and interest sus-  Tranche 1112    Implemcnted in May 91.
pension policy upon completion of CBPASS.
Issue NRB directive raising minimum bank capital  Tranche 1112       Implemented in May 91.          D X
requirements in relation to risk adjusted assets.                                                     XH
0  F-4



Polky Area and Objectives          Actions Taken Under SAL I                   SAL 11 Actions to be Taken                  SAL 11                 Implementation
Tmetable                Dates/Com_ents
Issue directive limiting bank credit to one bor-  FY90                Implemented.
rower to 25% of capital in principle.
Enact modified Commercial Banking Act (CBA)       Tranche 12          CBA and NRBA enacted in
and NRB Act (NRBA) as agreed and enact modi-                          October 89; NIDC Act am-
fied NIDC Act to bring it under supervision of                        mended in January 90.
NRB.
Enact modified Income Tax Act to enable provi-    Tranche 111       Implemented in May 89.
sions and interest suspension be tax deductible.
Reduce risks to banks engaged in rural and other  During pro-         No progress due to differences
priority lending by agreeing to appropriate level  gram period.      in objectives; Priority lending
loan amounts based on prudent practices.                              requirements changed by NRB
from 8 % of banks' assets to
12% of bank lending, involving
some increase in priority lend-
ing.
Free remaining administered lending rates over    During pro-         Rates officially freed except for
time.                                             gram period.       those on priority lending; but
littde change in rates occurred as
banks set the rates collectively.
I. Board presentation took place on June 27, 1989. At the time of Board presentation, the second tranche was expected to be released by October 1989 and the third tranche by May 1990, and    e  >
Credit closure by December 31, 1990. Actual second tranche release took place on March 8, 1990; the third tranche was released on March 29, 1992; and the Credit closed on July 31, 1992.  oq X
2. Third tranche release condition.                                                                                                                                       co H
3. Second tranche release condition.
00



