Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-5038-NEP
REPORT AND PECOMM1ENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDRNT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 46.2 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
June 5, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may oot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 28, 1989)
Currency Unit - Rupee (NRs)
US$1.00   NRs 25.7
Government Fiscal Year
July 16 - July 15
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
ADB      -     Asian Development Bank
ADBN     -     Agriculture Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -     Agricultural Inputs Corporation
BNP      -     Basic Needs Program
CBPASS   -     Comme:cial Bank Problem Analysis and Strategy Study
CIB      -     Credit Information Bureau
DOA      -     Department of Agriculture
DOI      -     Department of Irrigation
DP       -     Decentralization Program
ESAF     -     Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
FAO      -     Food and Agricultural Organization
GDP      -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP      -     Gross National Product
HMG      -     His Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA      -     International Development Association
IFC      -     International Finance Corporation
IMF      -     International Monetary Fund
KFW      -     Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
MFN      -    Most Favored Nation
MOF      -     Ministry of Finance
MIS      -     Management Information System
NB       -     Nepal Bank
NFC      -     National Food Corporation
NIDC     -     Nepal Industrial Development Corporation
NPC      -     National Planning Commission
NRB      -     Nepal Rastra Bank
ODA      -     Overseas Development Administration
OECF     -     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M      -     Operation and Maintenance
OGL      -     Open General License
PB/PM    -     Program Budgeting/Project Monitoring
PE       -     Public Enterprise
PDLT     -     Panchayat Development and Land Tax
PFP      -     Policy Framework Paper
POL      -     Petroleum, Oil and Lubricant
RBB      -     Rastriya Banijya Bank
SAF      -     Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL      -     Structural Adjustment Lending
SAP      -     Structural Adjustment Program
SOE      -     Statement of Expenditures
SDR      -     Special Drawing Right
TA       -     Technical Assistance
UNDP     -     United Nations Development Program
VAT      -     Value-Added Tax



FOR OMC'AL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Program Swmmary                  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
I.   The Econom    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ..1...... . .
Economic Development Constraints ..         ..        . .....          1
Recent Macroeconomic Developments and Reform Efforts  .  . .   . .    2
Future Adjustment Policy Issues ... .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .   . . . . .  .    9
Financing Prospects and Rationale for Bank Support  . . . . . . . .  10
II.  The SAL Program.    ............... . . . . . . . . .  13
A. Macroeconomic Management .  ..            ....                     13
1. Rationalizing the Revenue System . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
2. Public Expenditure Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
3. Trade Reforms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
B. Agricultural Reforms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
1. Fertilizer Distribution...   .  . .  . . . .   18
2. Irrigation..                 .       .       ...    20
C. Financial Sector Reforms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
III. The Proposed Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
History              ..                  .    .. . . . . . *.. 25
Key Actions in the Proposed Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Benefits and Risks  . ............ .  .     .     ......    26
Poverty and Adjustment Lending  .    .......... .  27
Addressing Environmental Concerns .*. .-. .-. .-. .. . . ...... .  28
Proposed Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Credit Administration and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Disbursements and Procurement        ......... . .  29
Accounts, Audits and Reporting  . ..... . ...    ......               30
Monitoring and Tranche Release  ...... .  . .  ......                 31
IV. Bank Group Operation and Strategy . ... .                 .32
V.   Collaboration with the Di    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
VI.  Recommendation . .............  ....  ...  ...  ...   .   34
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Text Tables
Table 1:  Key Economic Indicators  ... .............................   4
Table 2:  Effects of Current Trade and Transit Difficulties .... 8... 
Table 3: Summary of External Capital Requirements and
Sources: 1988/89 - 1989190 ............................. 12
Annexes
I     Socio-Economic Data ...........       .................................... 36
II    Status of Bank Group Opera 'ons        ................................... 41
III   Supplementary Project De-   ;heet .................................. 43
IV    Structural Reform PrograL *Aatrix of Actions) ..................... 45
v     Letter of Development Policy ...................................... 60
MAP:    Nepal - IBRD 10154R2



KINGDOM OF NEPAL
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:      Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:        IDA Credit:                 SDR 46.2 million (US$60.0 million
equivalent)
Cofinancing:   RFW (On a parallel basis): DM 10 million (USS5.0 million
equivalent)
Terms:         IDA Credit:                 Standard IDA Terms (40-year
maturity)
Description:   The proposed financing is intended to support the next phase of
the Government's structural adjustment program initiated under
the First Structural Adjustment Operation (SAL I). The main
objective of the program is to accelerate sustained economic
growth by reorienting the economy towards a path relying more
on the private sector, and on improved allocation of public and
financial resources. It consolidates the policies already
adopted and reinforces the adjustment process by additional
measures. The economic program supported by SAL I emphasized
appropriate macroeconomic management, strengthened institutions
supporting agriculture, an enhanced role for the private sector
in agriculture and forestry, a more liberalized trade regime
and commencement of public enterprise reform. Policy
performance thus far has been encouraging. In addition to
fiscal and monetary stabilization efforts, program budgeting of
development expenditures was started, sales tax and import
tariff systems were simplified, the import regime was
liberalized, and fertilizer prices were adjusted.
Implementation of public enterprise divestiture, however, has
been proceeding more slowly than initially expected, and the
Government has requested UNDPIIFC technical assistance for more
rapid and effective implementation.
The Government's new commitment to pursue and strengthen the
measures initiated under SAL I has been affirmed in the second-
year PFP, which was presented to the Committee of the lhole on
December 6, 1988. In addition, the recent impasse in the
renewal of trade and transit treaties with India increased the
need for continued reform outlined in the PFP.
The measures to be supported by the proposed credit will
strengthen the ongoing policy reforms, notably those aimed at:
(i) continued sound macroeconomic management with enhanced
revenue elasticity; (ii) improved development expenditure
management by, inter alia, institutionalizing program budgeting



- ii -
in line ministries; (iii) continued trade liberalization
consistent with the new trade regime; (iv) improved access of
farmers to fertilizers and irrigation water by enhancing the
role of the private sector in their distribution and delivery;
and (v) improved financial institutions that are able to
allocate resources more efficiently and to operate on a sounder
financial basis.
Estimated
Disbursements: The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed in
three tranches. The first tranche of US$20 million equivalent
would be available for disbursement upon credit effectiveness.
Disbursement of the second tranche (of US$20 million
equivalent) would be contingent upon adequate progress made in
the implementation of th,. program demonstrated by, inter alia
the Government's designing a medium-term policy framework as
exemplified by a satisfactory Policy Framework Paper and
adoption of an automatic fertilizer price adjustment mechanism.
The third tranche (of US$20 million equivalent) would be
contingent upon the Government's taking the actions enumerated
in paragraph 94 of this report. Performance review would be
held around April 1990 before the release of the third tranche.
Disbursements of the entire credit are expected to be completed
within 18 months after credit effectiveness.
App-aisal
Report:        Not applicable
Map:           IBRD 10154R2



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 46.2 MILLION
(US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL II) to the Kingdom of Nepal for SDR 46.2
million (US$60 million equivalent) on standard iDA terms.
2.    The first SAL (SAL I) for Nepal was approved by the Executive Directors
in April 1987 for a sum of US$50 million. In parallel, Nepal negotiated an
arrangement with the DMF for a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) loan based
on the first Policy Framework Paper (1987-1989) for a total of SDR 24 million,
to be disbursed over a three-year period. A Bank mission reviewed the
implementation of SAL I in November 1987, and the second tranche was released
in April 1988.
3.    An economic memorandum on Nepal (Report No. 7418-NEP) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on October 14, 1988. The Report focused on the
Government's initiatives to implement the structural adjustmert and the basic
needs programs, and emphasized policy reform priorities for the next phase of
the Government's adjustment program. The Government requested IDA assistance
in support of the second phase of the adjustment program in May 1988. This
program was appraised during a mission in February 1989, the conclusions of
,which are reflected in this report. Country data are attached as Annex I.
I.   The Economy
Ecanomic Development Constraints
4.   Nepal's per capita income of about US$170 (1987/88) places it among the
poorest countries in the world. Statistics on life expectancy, infant
mortality, and literacy are below the South Asian averages. Chronic poverty
and deprivation is perpetuated by rapid population growth; currently at 18
million and growing at 2.7 percent a year, the population continues to exert
severe pressure on Nepal's limited productive natural resources resulting in
widespread deforestation and soil erosion. Its predominantly rural economy
(with over 90 percent of the work force employed in agriculture) is further
plagued by stagnant or declining agricultural productivity and historically
slow off-farm employment growth.
5.    Few couzLtrieR began their development as late and with such a meager
resource endowment as Nepal--a disadvantage compounded by the country's land-
locked location and rugged terrain. Emerging from self-imposed isolation in
the early 1950s, the country endeavored belatedly to construct the modern
physical and administrative infrastructure required for development. However,
three decades of concerted effort has so far proved insufficient to alleviate
the prevailing condition of poverty. Although there has recently been some
acceleration of growth rates as discussed below, average annual growth of real
GDP prior to 1980 barely kept pace with population growth. During this



period, however, Nepal did not experience chronic or severe macroeconomic
imbalances.
6.    The long open border with India provides Nepal with both opportunities
for economic growth and certain constraints to efficient economic management.
India's future demand for energy resources constitutes a large potential
market for Nepal's huge untapped hydropower resources, once the political
complexities involved in moving towards bulk export agreements are resolved.
At the same time, the virtually free movement of goods, people, and capital
between the two countries have limited Nepal's autonomy in economic
management. By tending to making prices in the two countries similar, these
factors have made it difficult for Nepal to implement, for example, price and
crade policies appropriate for Nepal independent of these policies in India.
These concerns along with recent political devslopments have contributed to at
least a temporary breakdown in trade and transit relations with India (see
paras. 18-19).
7.    To compound inherited meager natural resources and geographical
problems, attempts to develop the country's human and institutional resources
have often been constrained by the vestiges of traditional social and
political systems. Furthermore, the Government's management of Nepal's
development has suffered from several weaknesses. Economic planning has
repeatedly overestimated government's implementation capacity while the budget
mechanism has led to insufficient focus and prioritization. In addition, the
Government has often established, in the past, inappropriate interventions to
direct economic activity creating distorted incentives and an eventual drain
on resources.
Recent Macroeconomic Developmentz and Reform Efforts
8.    The government is tackling the country's difficult development issues
through three major initiativess the Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), the
Basic Needs Program (BNP), and the Decentralization Program (DP).
9.    Growing frustration with the lack of tangible progress through
successive five year plans manifested itself in a surge in public expenditures
during the Sixth Plan (FY81-85), far outstripping growth in revenues. This
led to a higher rate of real GDP growth at close to 42 per year during the
same period, which proved to be unsustainable; severe internal and ext:ernal
imbalances rapidly emerged as a result of the expansionary policy. The
overall budge. deficit rose from 6.1Z of GDP in FY81 to 12.3? in FY83 leading
to strong demand pressures; domestic credit expansion, which peaked at 402 in
FY83 was still running at about 25? in FY85. Imports surged and the current
account deficit more than doubled between FY81 and FY83 reaching almost 92 of
GDP, while gross reserves fell from the equivalent of 8 months of imports to 3
months by the end of FY85. The precarious macroeconomic situation threatened
the viability of Nepal's development program; consequently, the Government
took steps to implement a stabilization program supported by an 1MF Stand-by
Arrangement in December 1985. Recognizing that stabilization measures by
themselves could not lead to sustained and more rapid growth, the Government
soon thereafter began to implement a structural adjustment program to address
the long-term constraints that have contributed tc slow growth. This was



supported by the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL I) in April 1987 and
by an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) for FY88. The stabilization
policies initiated in 1985, combined with the macroeconomic and sectoral
reforms supported under SAL I and SAF, form the core of Nepal's Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP). The major theme of this program to date has been to
build the foundations for more rapid and sustained growth by: (i) implementing
an appropriate macroeconomic adjustment program; (ii) reorienting policies and
strengthening the institutions supporting agriculture and industry to increase
production; and (iii) improving the efficiency of the public sector in terms
of its financial and budgetary management aad performance of public
enterprises.
10.   Simultaneously, His Majesty the King launched a far-reaching initiative
to meet the basic needs requirements of the people. The objective of the
Basic Needs Program (BNP) is for the Nepalese to attain a standard of living
'commensurate to lead a life with human dignity by Asian standards by year
2000' by increasing the provision of goods and services in six areas: food,
clothing, shelter, health, education and security. The BNP emphasizes the
need for production increases, principally by revitalizing agriculture and
private sector participation, and is thus consistent with the thrust of the
ongoing structural adjustment propram. However, the BNP's ambitious targets
are likely to prove beyond the country's absorptive capacity both in terms of
financial resources and its institutional capacity.
11.   The Government has also embarked on a significant Decentralization
Program aimed at improving the capacity of local administration to implement
development p: )grams and designed to encourage greater private sector
participation in the development process particularly in the areas of social
service delive I and management of community forests and irrigation
facilities.
12. SAL I. SAL I supported most of the critical reforms under the SAP
addressing issues in five areas: macroeconomic policy, public enterprise
performance and divestiture, agriculture and forestry policies, industry and
trade, and development administration. In macroeconomic policy, SAL I
supported continuation and deepening of the Government's adjustment effort
initially supported by the Fund's Stand-by (see para. 9 above) to reorient
macroeconomic policies to address weaknesses that had emerged in fiscal and
monetary management: to restrain public expenditures, especially recurrent
expenditures by curbing the public sector wage bill; and to increase revenues
through tax and tariff reforms. To improve its external position, the
Nepalese rupee was devalued by 15Z in 1985 and measures were taken to
liberalize the import regime. SAL I also complemented these macroeconomic
policies by supporting the Government's introduction of much needed structural
reforms in the major productive sectors. In agriculture, efforts were
concentrated on improving the performance of public agencies providing
requisite services, rationalizing pricing of both inputs and outputs, and
establishing adequate incentives for private sector participation,
particularly in fertilizer distribution and the seeds sub-sector. In
industry, the Government liberalized trade and industrial investment policies
to provide producers with improved incentives for production of exports and
import substitutes. SAL I also supported the Government's longer-term



initiative to enhance its efficiency in managing the development process.
Priority has been given to developing the information base and systems for
program budgeting, improving performance of public enterprises, and scaling
back activities where public sector involvement Was counter-productive,
including taking the decision to privatize certain public enterprises.
13.   P-rformance under SAL I.  Macroeconomic performance during the SAL I
period (FY86-FY88) has been encouraging (Table 1). GDP growth averaged 4.52
despite highly erratic weather. Investment has stabilized at a relatively
high level of 19-202 of GDP with an increasing share coming from the private
sector, and national savings increased from 112 in FY83 to 132 of GDP in FY88
primarily through an increase in public sector savings. The increased public
savings was achieved through an increase in government revenues from 82 of GDP
in FY83 to 10.52 in FY88 as a result of SAL-supported tax reforms and auction
of import licenses, while expenditures have been kept constant at 18-192 of
GDP. The overall budget deficit, consequently, decreased from 122 of GDP in
FY83 to 82 in FY88; net domestic financing declined from 6 to 0.92 of GDP.
Nepal's balance of payments perfo-mance was also satisfactory: the current
account deficit (excluding aircraft purchases) has recently been about 72 of
GDP compared with 92 in the early 1980s. Commodity exports relative to GDP
almost doubled between FY83 esnd FY88 reaching 62. In particular, non-
traditional exports (mainly carpets and garments) rose sharply and coupled
with increased private remittances and aid inflows, reserves rebounded to 5
months of coverage of imports at the end of FY88. Commodity imports rose to
202 of GDP in FY88 from 182 in FY83. As a result of sound fiscal measures
coupled with a tight credit policy, inflation declined from 162 in FY86 to 11l
in FY88.
Table 1
Nepal: Key Economic Indicators
---------------------------------------------------------__------------------__---------
1982/83  1983184  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
-------------------------------------------  Preli-
Actuals                 minary
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__---------
GDP growth 1/                         -3.0      9.7      3.0      3.9      2.4      7.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP         19.6     17.9     19.5     19.3     19.4     22.0
Government revenues/GDP                8.1      8.0      8.7      8.9     10.0      10.5
Government expenditures/GDP 2/        19.8     17.4     18.4     18.0     18.8     18.9
Government budget balance/GDP 3/     -11.7    -9.4      -9.7     -9.1     -8.9     -8.4
Exports/GDP                            3.3      4.1      6.2      6.0      5.1      6.0
Imports/GDP 4/                        18.3     15.8     17.7     18.1     18.6    20.5
Current account (in US$ mns.)       -217.3   -182.5   -182.6   -197.5   -201.5   -277.8
Current account/GDP 4/                -8.7     -6.8     -7.4     -7.5     -7.4     -9.0
Debt service ratio 5/                 -3.9     -4.3     -4.8     -6.9      -6.9     -8.8
1/ At constant prices.
2/ Includes net lending.
3/ Excludes grants.
4/ Includes the acquisition of one aircraft in 1987/88.
5/ As a percent of exports of goods and services and private transfers.



14.   Longer-term programs to improve development administration have also
shown progress; core priority projects and programs were identified according
to a pre-determined set of criteria and a management information system (MIS)
was developed based on the up-to-date information of project implementation.
This MIS is now being installed in selected line ministries and in the offices
of key decision makers such as the Prime Minister's office, the Palace, the
Planning Commission and the Finance Ministry.  In trade policy, substantial
import liberalization took place including initiating import license
auctioning and converting rigid quantitative restrictions to more flexible
passbook or open general license (OGL) systems. A duty drawback system was
offi;cially introduced for ready-made garment producers. These moves led to
the aforementioned increase in non-traditional exports and consequently a
significant improvement in the balance of payment3.
15.   In the areas of agriculture and forestry, the latter having major
environmental implications, the outcome has also been generally encouraging
despite a number of implementation delays with regard to fertilizer price
adjustment and forestry legislation which delayed second tranche release.
Implemented reforms include: (a) discontinuaticn of subsidized foodgrain
sales and producers' levies; (b) establishment of legal and institutional
arrangemerts in the seeds subsector that form a basis for more coordinated
research, production and marketing activities and for an increased use of
quality seeds; (c) adjustment of fertilizer prices to minimize price.induced
incentives for re-exporting imported fertilizers to neighboring countr±ses, and
liberalization of retail dealership regulations to include private dealers;
(d) streamlining the nation's agricultural research functions; and
(e) modification of forestry legislation so that the entire revenues collected
from sales of Panchayat-protected forest products are now retained and
disposed of at the local level for forest protection.
16. With regard to privatization of public enterprises (PEs), the
Government's moves have been more tentative. An action plan for public
enterprise divestiture was prepared, but its subsequent implementation was
side-tracked when the highest bidders for certain PEs were non-Nepalese, some
of whom already had extensive industrial holdings in Nepal, and the Gevernment
was not prepared to proceed further. Other PE sale attempts by the Gvvernment
have been unsuccessful due mostly to the Government's high reservation prices
or inadequate pre-sale preparation. Recognizing the complexities involved in
the process of privatization, the Government has decided to request UNDP
technical assistance to facilitate divestiture. IFC is expected to play a
major role in the project execution.
17.   Nepal's debt disbursed and outstanding at the end of FY88 is
$976 million, equivalent to about 341 of GDP. Aside from the recent aircraft
purc..ases, most of its borrowing has been on highly concessional terms and
about 302 of its annual current account balance is met by grants. The debt
service ratio was 8.82 of exports of goods and services in FY88. However, due
to a sudden drop of exports caused by a disruption in bilateral trade and
transit arrangements (see below), the debt service ratio is expected
temporarily to be around 152 in FY89 and FY90. In the medium term, as the
trade and transit issues are resolved, the ratio is expected to stabilize to
about 102.



- 6 -
18. Recent Trade and Trcnsit Issetes. Historically, trade relations between
Nepal and India have teen governed by two treaties which established a
preferential market for each others goods and implicitly allowed for the free
convertibility of their currencies. As a result, about 40Z of Nepal's trade
in recent years has been with India. On March 23, following a breakdown in
renewal negotiations, which were complicated by political considerations, the
trade and transit treaties between Nepal and India expired, with serious
repercussions on the economy. The transit treaty allowed goods from third
countries entering in Calcutta to pass through to Nepal exempt from customs
and transit duties. The trade treaty allowed for Nepalese-Indian bilateral
trade at 21 points (15 points for third-country transit) along the border with
primary commodities being essentially duty-free in both directions and other
goods being subject to no quantitative restrictions and low average tariff of
9Z. In the absence of these treaties, the number of trading points has been
reduced to only two, thus slowing down third country trade. More seriously,
the flow of Indian exports to Nepal has temporarily, at least, been stopped
and Nepalese exports to India are now subject to the prohibitively high Most
Favored Nation (MFN) Indian tariffs. With strong policing of the border by
India, informal trade has also fallen off sharply. So far, the convertibility
between the Indian and Nepalese Rupees has remained unchanged. However, the
payments regime may change significantly as the Nepalese Government moves to a
more Independent trade regime based on MFN principles.  (The Government of
India originally proposed the MFN regime as an interim measure until a new
treaty could be signed). The Government has taken significant trade reform
measures by placing under OGL/passbook 18 additional essential consumer goods
and industrial inputs and increasing total items under these systems to 62.
The Government also lowered average tariff rates on imports from third
countries by more than 20 percentage points, while raising tariff rates on
Indian imports by almost 10 percentage points, thus unifying the tariff
structure and reducing its dispersion.
19.   The most serious effect of this has been an acute shortage of coal and
POL products, which were previously supplied by India under a special
arrangement. The general populace, particularly in the Hills, have also been
severely inconvenienced by the lack of fuel for cooking and heating. The fuel
shortage has caused localized shortages due to crippled transportation and a
significant 4ecline in economic activity, especially industrial activity. To
ameliorate Lae shortages, the Government has implemented stringent rationing
of diesel, kerosene, petroleum and firewood, (and temporarily lowered the
price of fuelwood and electricity tariffs) while placing orders for POL
products from third countries. The current situation and new policy measures,
in addition to creating an uncertain economic and political climate, have
major implications for the adjustment program and the course of macroeconomic
adjustment. In this regard, discussions with the Government on the third-year
PFP should provide an effective vehicle for monitoring near-term macroeconomic
developments.
20.   PIP and Short-Run Effects of Trade qnd Transit Issues.  The Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1988/89-1990/91 (SecM88-1265), reviewed by the
Committee of the Whole on December 6, 1988, affirms the Government's medium-
term policy framework.   Based on the encouraging SAL I performance, the PFP



- 7 -
emphasized the need for continued reforms to achieve 4.5-5.O real GDP growth
during the next two to three years without exerting undue macroeconomic
pressures. This projected overall growth was expected to come from strong
non-agricultural growth of 6? based on further import and investment
liberalization measures, as well as revitalized agricultural growth at around
3.5? through improved inputs supply, irrigation services, and research and
extension functions. This higher growth was also expected to be based on
increased private initiatives as the improved policy environment would
encourage more private investment. Prudent monetary and credit policies were
to contain monetary growth lowering inflation from the current 8-9X per year
to around 52 by FY91. On the fiscal side, the Government planned to raise
revenues amounting to 11.31 of GDP in FY89 and 11.7Z in FY90. Since
government expenditures are at around 20-212 of GDP and because aid flows are
expected to be adequate to finance the current account deficit and the reserve
accumulation, these revenue measures were expected to maintain the domestic
financing of the budget deficit at a relatively low 1.5? of GDP in FY89; a
level which was expected to decline to 1Z by FY91. The current account
deficit of the external balance of payments was expected to be maintained at
7Z of GDP in FY89 (excluding the aircraft purchase) with a slight but
continuous decline projected for the next few years.
21. Prior to the emergence of the current trade and transit difficulties,
the economy was on course in meeting or surpassing most of the objectives for
FY89 set out in the PFP. The broad PFP parameters and targets, however, will
undoubtedly need to be modified depending on: (1) the duration of the
difficulties; (2) the quantity of essential commodities that will be allowed
to enter pending ratification of new treaties; and (3) the kind of trade
regime that will emerge when an agreement is in place. Discussions regarding
the third-year PFP (FY90-FY92) are scheduled for this summer reflecting on-
going changes in the policy environment.
22.   Even assuming that supplies of petroleum products resume shortly, albeit
at a significantly reduced level (60? of normal supplies), the short-term
economic scenario is not encouraging (Table 2). GDP growth this fiscal year
is likely to be under 2? rather than the 5.3? expected prior to the start of
current trade and transit difficulties. Next year, GDP growth could be
stagnant, due primarily to problems anticipated in the transportation of
agricultural and industrial inputs and in the operation of diesel-powered
irrigation facilities. The current account deficit of the balance of payments
is expected to widen next year due to a virtual halt in exports to India since
March, 1989, significantly reduced garment exports which depend on imports of
cloth from India, a reduction in carpet exports due to delays in obtaining
inputs, and lowered service receipts caused by a decline in tourism earnings.
The fall in export receipts this year is expected to be partially compensated
for by the fall in imports from both India and third countries. Primarily as
a result of strong growth in aid disbursements during the first eight months
of this fiscal year, international reserves are expected to reach about six
months worth of imports' coverage at the end of this fiscal year (July 1989)
but then to fall next year.
23.   Inflation during FY89 is projected to be 9.6Z, roughly in line with the
PFP projection because inflation during the first eight months of the fiscal



- 8 -
year was running at the annualized rate of only 8X. However, July to July
inflation is projected to be 17Z, and pressure on prices is expected to
continue well into the next fiscal year as the economy adjusts to a new trade
regime and significantly higher fuel and transportation costs.
Table 2: Effects of Current Trade and Transit Difficulties
--------------------------------------------------------__
(In millions of Indicated Currency Unless Otherwise Noted)
------------------------------------------------------------__---------------
1988189      1988/89      1989/90    1989/90
Pre-crisis   Current      Pre-crisis  c -rent
Estimates    Estimates   Estimates  ;.timates
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------
GDP Growth (C)                     5.3         1.6        4.5         0.1
Agriculture (1)                  6.2         6.0         3.5        0.5
Non-agriculture (X)              4.0        -4.6         6.0       -0.6
Inflation (Z)                        9         9.6          8          14
(annual average)
Government Revenues (NRs)         8781        7520       10063       8300
as X of GDP                   11.3        10.0        11.7        9.8
Government Expenditures (NRs)    16805       15410       17632      17350
as X of GDP                   21.7        20.5        20.5       20.5
Regular Expenditures (NRs)       5765        5850        6107       6300
Development Exp. (NRs)          11040        9560       11525      11050
Domestic Financing of Budget Deficit
as Z of GDP                    1.5         2.2         1.0        1.6
Merchandise Exports (US$)          217         158         246        135
Merchandise Imports (US$)          713         549         719        599
Current Account Deficit (US$)      302         256        261         290
as 2 of GDP                    9.2         8.7         7.2        9.4
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------
Source: Preliminary government estimates except for balance of payments
estimates which are preliminary staff estimates of the Fund and the Bank.
24.  Contractions are anticipated in both central government revenues and
expenditures in FY89. Revenues will likely reach only about NRs 7.5 billion,
rather than the budgeted NRs 8.8 billion, mainly as a result of lower trade,
sales, income, and excise taxes. While regular expenditures are projected to
remain virtually unchanged from the budgeted amount, development expenditures
are projected to fall significantly due to a virtual halt in most construction
activity and pronounced difficulties in transportation following the emergence
of the trade and transit impasse. As a result, the overall fiscal deficit is
projected to be about 102 of GDP, roughly what was expected in the PFP.
However, due to lowered aid disbursements during the last four months of FY89,
domestic financing of the deficit is expected to increase from a 1.5? of GDP



- 9 -
expected in the PFP to a projected 2.22 of GDP. Next year, even with new
policies to raise revenues, the share of public revenues to GDP is likely to
be somewhat less than the 102 achieved in FY89.
Future Adjustment Policy Issues
25. To adjust to the new economic environment brought on by changes in the
trade and transit regimes, and to get back to a growth path as envisaged in
the PFP, the ongoing reform effort needs to be continued and deepened. The
Government will need to take measures to mitigate the short-term costs of
shifting the trade regime to the modified MFN that it is proposing to take.
The trade liberalization measures already taken, therefore, should be
continued and expanded. Also, given the reduced government resources and the
inflationary pressures that are expected during the immediate future,
continued prudent fiscal and monetary policies have become even more critical
than before to provide a stable economic climate for inveetment, keep
inflation under control, and protect international reserves. In particular,
it will be necessary to curtail less essential public expenditures and focus
on more productive expenditures to keep them in line with the projected lower
public revenues. It is also important to strengthen the financial position of
public enterprises to minimize their drain on the budget as well as on the
weak banking system.
26. Nepal's need for further structural adjustment, if anything, has been
intensified by the current crisis. It is the Bank's assessment that the
current impasse with India will have a marginal impact on the program.
Nepal's structural problems are deep-rooted and the steps taken under SAL I
represent only the beginning stages of a reform effort which will need to span
several years if the basis for sustained higher growth is to be created. In
particular, despite the recent encouraging performance, Nepal's economic
structure remains weak and dominated by a weak agriculture sector. The
country must also cope with significant external and internal macroeconomic
imbalances. Even before the onset of the current trade and transit problem,
the current account deficit on the external balance of payments amounting to
72 of GDP and the overall budget deficit of about 91 of GDP needed to be
reduced gradually over time. These gaps have so far been, and are expected to
be for the immediate future, financed largely by concessional assistance.
They, therefore, would not pose any threat to the immediate macroeconomic
viability of the economy once the current crisis is resolved. Continued
structural adjustment efforts are, however, necessary to lay the foundation
for gradually reducing these gaps over time through sustained production
growth. To move toward this goal, macroeconomic management, agricultural
reforms, and financial sector reforms are identified as areas that now need to
be addressed through an adjustment-type operation.
27. Macroeconomic Management The adjustment program in macroeconomic
management should focus or. enhancing fiscal revenues, rationalizing
expenditure management, and improving trade policies. Sustained macroeconomic
stability would also provide the requisite environment for carrying out
further structural reforms. On fiscal revenues, major issues are increasing
the revenue elasticity and efficiency of the tax system by improving tax
administration and broadening the tax base. On government expenditures, slow



- 10 -
implementation of a large number of development projects continues to be a
major issue. SAL I supported an ambitious effort to strengthen program
budgeting and project monitoring, mainly in the Ministry of Finance.
Continued efforts need to be made toward fewer and higher quality development
projects that are more rapidly implemented, and in more adequate operation and
maintenance provisions. The resulting reduction in wasteful public
expenditures is crucial for overcoming the current crisis and for establishing
the basis for future growth. On trade policies, the focus should continue to
be on developing export-oriented and efficient import-competing industries by
minimizing the disruptions necessitated by the on-going restructuring of the
trade regime and through further trade liberalization.
28.   Agriculture  Another major policy area for adjustment is the largely
stagnant agriculture. High priority should continue to be accorded to
agriculture in recognition that accelerated agricultural production is
critically important for both increasing the overall growth rate and raising
the incomes of the poorer groups (in line with the Government's basic needs
strategy). SAL I supported reforms in various sub-sectors in agriculture.
The Government should now move on to the next generation of needed reforms in
improving the management of fertilizer stocks and further liberalizing and
privatizing the fertilizer distribution system. (SAL I reforms in other sub-
sectors, e.g. research, seeds and forestry, are now being followed up through
other IDA investment and technical assistance projects so that the policy and
institutional adjustments made under SAL I are sustained and contribute to
further production increases.) In addition, the Government needs to begin to
address major weaknesses in its irrigation strategy; in view of the limited
benefits from past public sector irrigation programs, a reorientation of
efforts to emphasize private sector initiatives is perhaps one of the most
important issues to be addressed in the coming years.
29.   The Financial Sector  Finally, during the past year, several weaknesses
in the financial system became evident. The Government's interventionist
policies have caused distortions in the allocation of financial resources and
the two largest commercial banks are potentially insolvent. In addition, the
Central Bank's (the Nepal Rastra Bank (NRB)) supervisory and regulatory
functions are inadequate. Given the critical role the financial sector should
play as adjustment policies in pro >ctive areas start to take root. the sector
needs a comprehensive reform progrdm.
Financing Prospects and Rationale for Bank Support
30.   Historically, Nepal's success in maintaining macroeconomic stability has
been due in part to its relatively low-level economic equilibrium. Per capita
income at $170 has been generally stagnant until recently; import demand has
been repressed because of low incomes as well as import and foreign exchange
controls; and government expenditure programs fall far short of needs in both
quality and quantity. Moreover, as stated above, Nepal's external balance is
structurally weak.   Merchandise exports cover less than a third of imports
and external aid finances more than half of development expenditures. Thus,
adjustment efforts need to span over many years if sustained and more self-
reliant growth is to be established. The preconditions for further successful
adjustment lending appear to be in place in Nepal: the Government has



- 11 -
reiterated its support for the structural adjustment process and has been
implementing many reforms on its own initiative; and there is also a need for
additional quick-disbursing assistance to support the adjustment process as it
accelerates.
31.   As indicated in Table 3, Nepal will continue to need substantial balance
of payments support in the medium term. A substantial modification in
macroeconomic projections has been made due to the onset of the current trade
and transit difficulties. The estimate of financing requirements for FY89 has
changed little between pre- and post-border crisis as the virtual halt of
Indian export and substantial reduction in third-country exports have been
offset by a decline in both Indian imports and aid-related imports. During
the next several years, however, imports are expected to recover more rapidly
than exports, as Nepal will have to struggle to diversify its export markets
to third countries.   Financing gaps, therefore, are expected to widen in the
medium term as a result of the on-going trade difficulties and consequent
trade regime restructuring. Also, as a result of more liberal industrial
policies envisaged under SAL II (expanded OGL/passbook coverage, continued
relaxation of industrial licensing requirements, and an improved duty drawback
system for exporters), demand for imported capital equipment and intermediate
inputs by industrialists has and should continue to grow. Similarly,
improvements in the fertilizer distribution system-,as well as better extension
and irrigation services should lead to increased fertilizer imports.
32.   The rationale for a quick-disbursing loan reflects the expected increase
in import demand consistent with this scenario of further liberalization.
Quick-disbursing loans would also mitigate the immediate pressure on the
external position that are likely to arise from the diversion of imports from
India to third countries consequent to moving to a new MFN system. If a more
independent trade regime should emerge from the on-going difficulties, the
higher import demand in the immediate future would come less from income
growth and more from the expenditures related to restructuring of the
industrial and commercial activities. In the medium term, however, the higher
incomes resulting from re-gained growth in the productive sectors would also
generate additional demand for general imports. Quick-disbursing assistance
will also help ease the Government's shortage of counterpart funding for its
development expenditures, and provide additional resources for essential
recurrent expenditures including O&M and social sector programs.



- 12 -
Table 3
Nepalt  Financing Requirements 1988/89 - 1989190
(US$ million)
1988/89 1989/90
Requirementst
Current account deficit 11       256      290
Financing
Project loans (net) 1/           116       98
(disbursements)              (137)    (125)
(amortization)                (-23)    (-27)
Grants                            77       80
Expected Program-type Loans       88       84
(SAL II)                       (20)     (40)
(ADB Ag. Input Loan)           (30)     (25)
(Cofinancing and others)       (27)     (21)
(Net IMF)                      (11)     (-2)
Total                          281      262
Change in Reserves ('-' sign indicates   -25         28
reserve build-up)
Financing Gap                               0         0
-------------------------------------------------------------
i/ Includes disbursement and amortization for aircraft purchases.
33.  Under the above scenario, the demand for foreign exchange for financing
the external current account is expected to total US$546 million during the
FY89-90 period (Table 3). Net project disbursements (loans and grants) during
the two years are expected to be around US$370 million. In addition, given
the current reserve coverage of 6 months of imports, Nepal can draw down on
reserves amounting to about US$30 million in FY90 and still maintain its PFP
objective of having reserves cover at least S months of imports. (A similar
reserve draw-down in FY91 might jeopardize the reserve coverage target,
however.) Therefore, during the next two years, Nepal will need quick-
disbursing balance of payments support amounting to about US$ 170 million.
This amount is expected to be met by SAL (US$60 million), ADB (US$55 million),
IKP (US$11 million) and the rest by bilateral aid programs including co-
financing. Historically, Nepal maintained a relatively high reserve coverage,
6-8 months of imports in the 1970s, which sank to three-month coverage in the
early 1980s as macroeconomic instabilities emerged. This reserve policy
reflects the Government's concern that, as a land-locked country with poor
transport links coupled with heavy trade dependency on India, higher reserve
coverage is essential to provide the Government with greater flexibility in
managing the economy. In the past, Nepal had the experience of having to air
freight in commodities at high cost as a result of disruption of transit links



- 13 -
through India; a point which has been reinforced by the current transit
problems. There is also a concern that because of Nepal's open borders,
economic developments in India, e.g., a poor harvest, could seriously affect
Nepal; conversely, a bad harvest in Nepal could wipe out agricultural export
earnings and impose heavy demands on food imports especially in the absence of
ready access to a large commodity aid pipeline. Under the PFP program, it is
planned that foreign reserves should be maintained at about the level of 5
months of import coverage (although with the current trade and transit
problems with India this may not be achieved in the immediate future).
34.   The justification for SAL operations in Nepal partly reflects donors'
limited success in the past in dealing with a variety of structural and cross-
sectoral problems and weak institutions through traditional investment
projects. Progress thus far seems to suggest that a SAL-type operation is a
useful complement to investment projects in addressing policy and
institutional issues. Moreover, Nepal's decision-making structure is highly
centralized; in this environment, SAL has proved to be an effective instrument
for mobilizing the attention of the central government agencies and support at
the highest political levels. It also provides the opportunity for IDA to
address more policy issues than would otherwise be possible, given the limited
number of operations programmed for a small country like Nepal, and at the
same time is an effective vehicle for policy reforms under the PFP framework.
II. The SAL Program 11
A. Macroeconomic Management
1. Rationalizing the Revenue System
35.   Despite recent efforts to improve the tax system and success in raising
government revenues from 82 of GDP in FY84 to 10.5Z in FY88 (and a projected
10 in FY89 despite the border problems), Nepal still suffers from low revenue
elasticity, requiring the Government to rely on discretionary measures. The
low elasticity is attributable mainly to gaps in the tax base caused by tax
exemptions and tax holidays, but there are also problems with tax
administration. In addition, inefficiencies arise because of a high
dependence on trade-related revenues, a tendency to tax production rather than
consumption and the large dispersion in effective rates of protection. Under
SAL IISAF and an earlier Stand-by, the import tariff and sales tax structures
were simplified and improved, and many sales and excise tax exemptions were
discontinued. Further measures needed to improve the tax system center on
increasins the efficiency and revenue elasticity of the tax structure by Inter
atla improving tax administration, broadening the tax base, and streamlining
and enhancing domestic indirect tax systems. Through these policies, the
Government is committed to raising revenues. In FY90, the Government intends
to mobilize at least NRs 300 million through new measures (of which NRs 200
million will come from measures such as adopting new taxes, changing rates of
existing taxes, and increasing the tax base, and NRs 100 million or more from
1/    A matrix of policy actions appears in Annex IV.



- 14 -
improved tax administration), and in addition, limit domestic financing of the
budget deficit to NRs 1.4 billion not including domestic financing that may be
required for honoring guarantees on commercial bank loans to public
enterprises (see para. 69).
36.   Part of the reason for the inefficient tax administration is that taxes
are administered by three separate revenue departments (tax, customs and
excise) which are staffed by non-specialists with a high turnover.
Consequently, assessment and collection are managed by officials with
inadequate expertise. Realizing this, the Government is moving toward
establishing a Closed and Unified Revenue Service consisting of the above
three departments and functional staff in revenue planning, audit, and
administration which would offer a specialized career path for its employees.
As a first step, the Government is stopping personnel transfers into the
Ministry of Finance (922 of the Ministry of Finance staff now work in the
three revenue departments) from outside, and restricting the horizontal
personnel mobility of revenue department staff to within the three
departments. These moves are accompanied by further measures to improve tax
administration and collections such as increased use of regular field
auditing, the extension of training programs for the staff, tax assessors'
audits, an increase in penalties for tax evasion or late filing of returns and
strengthening of the tax information base.
37.   One of the problems with the tax base arises from the income tax
holidays granted to a wide rang,e of new industrial enterprises. Cognizant of
this, the Government is planning to continue to reduce the number of
corporations eligible for tax holidays through annual revision of the list of
sub-sectors ineligible for the holidays. A time-bound action plan to phase
out the tax holidays in three years will be prepared and the first year action
for FY90 will be implemented by the third tranche release. With regard to
personal income tax, there is a need to make the tax base more comprehensive
and tax provisions more streamlined. The Government, therefore, will carry
out a review of income tax provisions aimed at reducing exceptions in income
tax provisions and lowering in real terms the relatively high wage income tax
exemption level. Finally, one of the problems pertaining to the tax base is
the largely tax-exempt rural areas. The Government is addressing this issue
by encouraging village panchayats to collect a Panchayat Development and Land
Tax (PDLT) - essentially a proxy for an agricultural income tax.
38.   Recent changes in the structure of sales taxes have conuiderably
simplified the tax structure. In addition, the Government is considering
making indirect tax systems more efficient with a view to eventual
introduction of tax systems similar to VAT that would facilitate reduction in
the dispersion of effective rates of protection and increased taxation of
final rather than intermediate uses. The Government is preparing for the
improvement of indirect tax systems through an on-going technical assistance
study by the IMF, and will implement in FY90 initial steps to enhance the
sales tax system endorsed by the Fund study team. In addition, the Government
will convert specific excises on brick, cooking oil, and sugar to ad valorem
taxes.



- 15 -
2. Public Expenditure Management
39.   A critical constraint to Nepal's development effort has been the slow
pace of project implementation. There are several reasons for this:
(a) insufficient efforts to establish the relative priority of projects;
(b) weak monitoring and control of project implementation; (c) frequent delays
in and stoppage of the release of budgetary funds to projects due to
unsanctioned fund usages arising from, for example, managers allocating funds
among expenditure items; (d) inadequate provisions for O&M expenditures; and
(e) inadequate consideration of total resource availability and intersectoral
priorities in the budgetary process.
40.   To address issues of relatively weak prioritization and monitoring of
projects, the Government introduced in 1986 program budgeting and project
monitoring (PB/PM) within the Ministry of Finance.21 Core projects were
identified based on a weighted assessment of their economic efficiency,
nearness to completion, foreign aid financing and strategic contribution.
With UNDP/ADB technical assistance, PB now covers nine sectors or about 802 of
the development budget while PM will soon monitor financial disbursements of
all the core projects. The PB/PM project started by establishing an
institutional base in the Ministry of Finance for making budget decisions in
line with development priorities and has raised awareness throughout the
Government of the need for a more orderly and rational process of allocating
resources and monitoring their actual usage. Progress has now reached the
stage where its regular institutional base should be established within the
line ministries.
41.   Given these developments, SAL II supports the following measures in
public expenditure management. First, the follow-up stage of the PB/PM
project (Phase III) is currently under preparation for implementation from
July 1989. Efforts have already started to build the institutional and
technical basis for preparing the FY90 budget using the PB approach in line
ministries and agencies for nine sectors. At the same time, a project to
strengthen the National Planning Commission is expected to start, while yet
another project, to strengthen accounting and auditing in the public sector,
is already underway. SAL IT will monitor and support progress in these
undertakings which aim at strengthening public expenditures management.  The
Government is supporting these initiatives by establishing a high level
committee for policy guidance and implementation.  On Project Monitoring (PM),
in addition to the expansion in coverage mentioned above, the Government is
installing a management information system in each of the major line agencies
and linking them with the District Treasury Offices and central decision
makers within FY89 to achieve accurate project monitoring and evaluation and
the expeditious release of budgetary funds.
2/    In program budgeting, development projects are grouped by program areas
(e.g. aquaculture, small hydropower, trunk roads or adult education) and
viewed as efforts to achieve the specific development objectives for
that particular program area. On this basis, resources are to be
allocated in favor of higher priority programs.



- 16 -
42.   Second, as de cribed in para. 40 above, the current concept of "core"
projects is that they are projects of good quality; non-core projects are
candidates for either redesign or elimination. Since this should eventually
lead to a rise in the proportion of the core in the development budget to
close to IOOZ, the concept is not helpful in determining fund release priority
and expediting implementation of high priority projects. The Government has,
therefore, identified within the core a group of 35 pilot projects whose
implementation will receive adequate funding without any delay even in the
event of a resource short.all. If initial budget allocations turn out to be
inadequate during the mid-year btdget review, these projects will receive
additional funding reallocated from projects whose funds are being spent more
slowly than initially envisaged in the budget. To maintain financial control,
however, the PM group will monitor closely the implementation of these
projects.
43.   Third, su..spension of fund release due to past unsanctioned fund uses has
been a major cause of delay in project implementation. Recently, the
Government has decided to delink the release of funds from the clearing up of
these irregular uses of fund. Henceforth, irregularities are to be reviewed
by a central committee and fund release will no longer be halted on account of
them. This step, aided by the increased project management information
becoming increasingly available at the center through the PM project, will
lead to major improvement in project implementation without loss of
appropriate financial control.
44.   Fourth, to put the overall public development effort in the proper
macroeconomic perspective and align budget allocations with national
development priorities the Government has formally established a Resources
Committee representing the Ministry of Finance, the National Planning
Commission and the Nepal Rastra Bank which would guide the budget preparation
process bys (i) establishing a set of resource estimates including foreign
aid, which is consistent with GDP and balance of payments projections;
(ii) providing the Government with resource mobilization recommendations;
(iii) establishing spending guidelines by sector for both current and
development expenditures that should be respected in program budgeting in line
ministries; and (iv) revising the macroeconomic projections and resource
estimates and reviewing budget execution during the fiscal year as the basis
for mid-year budget revision. The Resources Committee will work towards
expanding its analytical framework to permit multi-year revenue and
expenditure estimates (rolling budget). In addition, the Government is
committed to providing adequate O&M expenses to ongoing and past investment
projects. For FY90, the Government will budget adequate O&M expenditures in
four major areas (irrigation, power, transport and education).
3. Trade Reforms
45.   Recognizing that its past policies of rigid licensing of imports were
ineffective in promoting industrial development and preventing trade
deflection to India, the Government has recently turned to more export-
oriented trade policies. Its objectives are to allow exporters to compete
with foreign producers on an equal footing and, to the extent possible, to
equalize incentives between exporters and producers of import substitutes



- 17 -
while maintaining efforts to minimize trade deflection. The new trade
policies were initiated under SAL I with the removal of rigid quantitative
restrictions and increased reliance on a new simplified system of tariffs anl
trade related taxes. The Government also introduced a passbook system for
industrial imports (that amounts to annual import licenses based on production
capacity), placed several important raw materials under OGL, and established
an auction system for commercial import licenses. In FY88, 1OZ of third
country non-aid imports were under OGLlpassbook; 372 under industrial import
licenses more strictly monitored than passbook imports; 14X under auctioning;
and most of the rest were essential goods imports (petroleum, fertilizer
etc.). A duty-drawback system was introduced for imported inputs for ready-
made garments and was recently made to function smoothly. In addition, the
number of items that are subject to industrial and export licensing was
significantly reduced. Improved access to raw wool imports by carpet
producers under OGL resulted in a surge in the export of carpets.
Furthermore, as stated above (para. 18), the Government introduced a
significant trade policy reform in the wake of the current trade and transit
difficulties; it took major steps to liberalize imports from third countries
and eliminate the preferential customs duties previously applied to imports
from India.
46.    In this environment, two sets of actions to further the above
objectives are proposed under SAL II. First, there is room for extending
coverage of recent measures and improving their implementation. In
particular, items tunder the OGL and annual passbook systems will be increased
to 352 of third country non-aid imports for FY89 and to 50 in PY90. The
coverage of the systems will also be expanded to include intermediate inputs
and capital equipment. The duty-drawback (or prior exemption on goods that
have limited possibilities for re-export to India) system with a simplified
refunding procedure will be extended to all other exports and functioning
satisfactorily by the third tranche release. The premium on raw wool imports
for carpet production was abolished in March 1989 and duties will be fully
exempt from July 1989. There is also a need for streamlining the procedures
for import license auctioning and for increasing the auctioned amount. The
streamlining of the auctioning includes auctions on broad commodity groups
(e.g., luxury, semi-luxury Pnd essentials) and determination of both premia
and successful bids on the basis of a marginal bidder whose bid exhausts the
allocated amount for auctioning in any commodity group. The Government will
announce the improved import license auctioning procedures at the budget
speech in July 1989 and will implement them from FY90. With regard to
increasing the auctioned amount, the Government intends to auction NRs 1.5
billion in PY89, a more than 502 increase from the actual level of FY88; a
similar increase is envisaged for FY90. Second, since limited sector
knowledge makes derivation of medium- to long-term policy alternatives
difficult, SAL II will support and monitor the Government's ongoing efforts
with ADB technical assistance to study the industrial sector's comparative
cost structure as well as ways to promote and diversify Nepal's exports.
These efforts should provide an information basis for further trade and
industrial reforms.
47.   The above reform policies are consistent with both the trade regime
existing prior to the current trade and transit problem and the one based on



- 18 -
MFN principles, a possible outcome that would be in effect when the current
problem is resolved. But further liberalization will need to proceed
cautiously. Even in an MFN arrangement with more regulated border trade, it
will be difficult to prevent substantial re-export to India of imports into
Nepal from third countries if there is a substantial divergence between
Nepal's third country tariffs and equivalent Indian levels. Such deflection
would put pressure on Nepal's convertible currency reserves and raise concerns
within India if it took place on a large scale. Under the previous trade
regime, price movements were quite similar because goods and services and even
labor and capital moved freely across the border. This limited the potential
for exchange rate changes as a major policy tool in the past. Evidence
suggests, for example, that the effects of the 1988 devaluation vis-a-vis
India were quickly eroded by inflation without a significant supply response.
At present, there appears to be no major misalignment in the foreign exchange
rate, a view shared by the Fund. The real effective exchange rate depreciated
by about 10? during the last two years, partially due to the depreciation of
the Indian rupee. The movement to a MFN trade regime along with further
liberalization, however, could well put more pressure on Nepal's balance of
payments position and necessitate a more flexible exchange rate policy in the
future.
B. Agricultural Reforms
48.   The growth in agriculture has been slow: 1.9? per year during the decade
starting FY75. Although the data are not reliable, there are signs of some
impro?ement during the last few years. The generally poor performance is
attributable to various factors, including Nepal's natural resource endowment,
its institutional weaknesses and inappropriate policies. In particular, the
major constraints to agricultural growth have been problems in the supply and
delivery of fertilizer, inefficient and unreliable irrigation, slow progress
in developing production technology, and weak extension.
1. Fertilizer Distribution
49.   The Government's goal is to ensure timely and adequate delivery of
chemical fertilizers to farmers to facilitate an increase in agricultural
production. Importing and distributing fertilizers at the wholesale level are
currently carried out solely by the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC), a
public enterprise. At the retail level, the sajhas (cooperatives), which have
been accorded special status in the Constitution and supported by the
Government, have had a virtual monopoly position until recently. AIC also
sets both retail and wholesale prices and determines the margins that dealers
can include in the final retail prices to recover their transport costs.
AIC's wholesale prices to sajhas are lower than those to private dealers thus
giving sajhas higher profit margins. Until recently, changes in any of the
prices and margins had to be cleared by the cabinet thereby causing delays in
adjustment. Fertilizer consumption in Nepal is extremely low as supply has
been restricted partly due to foreign exchange and fiscal constraints. The
latter constraint emerges as suibsidies averaging NRs 2,000 (US$85) per metric
ton (close to 50Z of retail prices) are necessary to maintain rough parity
with subsidized Indian fertilizer prices. The price parity is necessary to
avoid informal fertilizer trade between the two countries in either direction.



- 19 -
Also, because of poor procurement and delivery planning, as well as the
inefficiency of the AIC and sajhas, supplies often fail to reach farmers at
the right time.
50.   Some improvements were made under SAL I.  Private dealers are now
allowed to operate at the retail level in areas where there are no sajhas,
although AIC can restrict their marketing area and arbitrarily limit the
number of private dealers per trading zone. To remove the incentive for
smuggling, prices of major fertilizers were raised to the level of Indian
border prices. To maintain parity with Indian prices without adjustment lags,
AIC was given authority to adjust prices as needed from time to time.
51.   These initial improvements are to be supported by further reforms under
SAL II. The objectives are to: substantially increase the volume of supply,
rationalize supply management, make pricing adjustments more automatic and
remove restrictions on private trade.
52.   The Government has decided to increase the annual volume of fertilizer
imports and to start eztablishing appropriate reserves. As a first step, it
intends to raise imports in FY89 by 502 over the FY88 level. While the
country's strong foreign exchange position permits a large increase in imports
in FY89, given the above-mentioned subsidy requirement, the longer run
financial consequences of a sustained higher import level require careful
examination in the context of the medium-term strategy discussed below.
53.  The increase in fertilizer supplies should be accompanied by efforts to
improve the supply management and distribution systems. Efforts to improve
supply management will start with timing fertilizer imports so that
fertilizers are available in time for the planting and growing seasons,
improving planning and procurement procedures, and enhancing coordination with
bilateral donors. AIC's capacity to forecast and monitor demand and supply
for each marketing zone will also be enhanced. AIC will be, therefore,
reviewing its current stocks and storage facilities, and building its
capability to monitor retail prices and quantities of sales and stocks, and
estimate farmers' demand for each trading zone. Technical assistance from ADB
is being provided to help AIC in resolving present and anticipated storage
capacity and transport issues, and another project executed by FAO is setting
up the necessary price monitoring capability within the Ministry of
Agriculture.
54.   The Government is continuing the fertilizer pricing policy supported by
SAL I, i.e., retail prices net of transport cost should be at least as high as
Indian retail prices. To achieve this goal, the AIC board was given the
authority to adjust prices when necessary, and has largely adjusted all
fertilizer prices according to this rule. Furthermore, to increase the
automaticity in price adjustment, the AIC board will now delegate to AIC
management the authority to adjust prices according to an approved automatic
mechanism of price adjustment whereby all fertilizers in Nepal are
automatically adjusted to levels slightly (2.5Z) above observed Indian border
prices whenever Nepali prices fall below Indian prices. This mechanism has
been adopted and its full operationalization will be reviewed at the second
tranche release review. The Government is also committed to achieving parity



- 20 -
with Indian prices at the wholesale level in the near future. (A major
adjustment occurred in September 1988 when prices on average increased 8Z;
further adjustments are under consideration.)
55.   The Govarrnment has decided to deepen recent moves to liberalize bys
removing the control on the number of private dealers per trading areas
allowing privas.e dealers to do busines3 even in areas where sajhas are
functioning; removing spatial restrictions on Any dealer's business
activities; and allowing dealers to recover fully the transport cost of
fertilizers regardless of the distance involvv,t (at present, the transport
allowance is only up to a defined distance). Finally, to introduce the
private sector to fertilizer wholesaling, all dealers will be able to appoint
sub-dealers and are entitled to advance and bulk purchase discounts as is
normal in the wholesale business. AIC issued the dealership regulations that
incorporate these liberalization measures in May 1989.
56.   While significantly improving fertilizer distribution, the above
measures will address different facets of the problem more or less
individually. The Government's ultimate goal will eventually require a review
of fertilizer procurement and wholesale and retail distribution. The
Government will, therefore, undertake a study to examine alternative medium-
term future strategies for increasing the efficiency of fertiliz3r
distribution. The study will address the appropriate roles of sajhas, AIC and
private dealers in the entire system of procurement, wholesale, retail,
pricing and subsidy administration and examine the level and fiscal
implications of subsidies and, if needed, whether they should best be attached
to unit prices or transport costs or be administered through alternative
systems.
2. Irrigation
57.   Irrigation development is a prerequisite for any significant increase in
agricultural production. The area currently under irrigation in Nepal is a
little less than one million ha (about 502 of irrigable land) with about 20Z
developed by the public sector. All major surface irrigation schemes are in
the public sector and until recently the government's strategy emphasized
public sector irrigation, primarily through large scale surface irrigation
schemes in the Terai. Public sector irrigation, however, is beset by a number
of problems. The completion rate has been poor (less than 40? during the last
three five-year plans) and even when completed, less than two-thirds of their
intended command area receives reliable water delivery. Reasons for this poor
performance include: the absence of an effective tertiary distribution network
and adequate farm-level water management; weak management and inadequate
resources devoted to O&M; and inadequate agricultural support services. These
conditions have led the Government to reformulate its irrigation development
strategy and devise specific actions to reorient local institutions and
policies.
58.   The Government's new irrigation strategy puts the focus for the next
decade on investments of short to medium gestation such as groundwater
development, especially shallow tubewells; completion of ongoing public sector
irrigation projects; and improvements or new construction of farmer-managed



- 21 -
schemes. The common element in this is greater collaboration between the
Government and farmers in irrigation development and O&M. Through greater
farmer participation, the Government intends to increase the rate of
irrigation development and develop maximzm farmer responsibility for OUM.
This strategy should permit the Department of Irrigation (DOI) to focus its
scarce staff and financial resources on activities that are beyond the
capability of farmers such as construction and 0&M of headworks and main
systems of larger projects. Better understanding between the Government and
farmers should, moreover, facilitate irrigation cost recovery. An initial
step towards the implementation of the new sector strategy was taken with the
establishment of a high-level Irrigation Sector Steering Committee in April
1988.
59.   Under Credit 1924-NEP (Mahakali Irrigation II Project) IDA is assisting
the Government in implementing this new strategy both by providing adequate
legal status to water users associations and financing pilot projects. SAL II
will continue to support the Government's overall new strategy for the
irrigation sector by shifting the DOI's orientation from construction of new
large schemes to an increased emphasis on the O&M of existing irrigation
systems and cooperation with farmers' organizations, handing over management
and ownership of small- and medium-scale DOI schemes to farmers, establishing
improved mechanisms for the collection of water charges and improving
coordination between irrigation and agricultural service agencies. Adequate
progress on the implementation of this new sector strategy will be a condition
for third tranche release.
60.   Lexal recognition of and protection for water user organizations are
preconditions for their active collaboration with the Government in irrigation
development and therefore critical to the effectiveness of DOI's new sector
strategy. Nepal's Associations Act provides a ready vehicle for providing
farmer groups with this legal status through registration with Chief District
Officers. The Government will issue guidelines to DOI field staff and Chief
District Officers regarding simplified procedures for the registration of
farmer groups. This was agreed under Credit 1924-NEP and will also be
monitored under SAL II.
61.    To support the new irrigation strategy, the DOI has established an
operations group within DOI consisting of DOI staff and consultants, which is
authorized and enabled to handle DOI responsibilities for farmer organization,
legal establishment of farmer associations, cost recoverv and monitoring of
O&M activities. Prior to release of third tranche, the performance of this
group will be jointly reviewed by DOI and IDA and based on this review, a
draft action plan satisfactory to IDA to establish an irrigation management
division will be adopted and thereafter implemented by DOI. Furthermore, in
order to ensure that adequate resources are provided for O&M, the Government
will design and implement a regular process for site-specific estimation of
resources required for O&M, for preparing an annual budget request on this
basis, and for regular monitoring and assessment of the results of past year's
O&M expenditures. In addition, the target to expand irrigated areas in the
Basic Needs Program will be elaborated to reflect the need to increase
irrigation intensity of existing systems rather than simply expanding new
irrigated areas.



- 22 -
62.   Furthermore, to reduce the overall O&M burden of DOI and as part of its
new sector strategy, the Government has decided to withdraw public involvement
from schemes that farmer groups can operate and maintain on their own. The
Government will prepare an action plan including pilot projects, satisfactory
to IDA, for the full turnover to farmer groups of DOI-managed surface and
groundwater schemes of less than 2,000 hectares in the Terai and 500 hectares
in the Hills, as well as all other achemes where farmers have the capability
of assuming full O&M responsibility. The action plan was finalized in May
1989, and its implementation, including the pilot projects, will be reviewed
before third tranche release.
63.   Public sector irrigation cost recoverZ in Nepal needs to be improved;
not only are water charges set at levels insufficient to recover O&M costs,
but also actual collections are unsatisfactory. Current water charge
collections (about NRs 3.1 million in FY88 compared to about NRs 33 million
receivables with the current rate) are well below what would be considered an
adequate level for such expenditures (estimated to be about NRs 70 million at
NRs 350/ha per year). The reasons for this poor collection performance are
due mainly to inability or reluctance of farmers to pay fees for usually
insufficient and unreliable water deliveries, unsystematic billing and
collection procedures and absence of clear incentives for DOI staff to
increase collections. With the exception of two IDA-financed projects3/ where
water supplies have been reliable and credit covenant on cost recovery
complied with, IDA irrigation projects in Nepal have also suffered from
unreliable water supply and poor cost recovery performance despite specific
covenants regarding water charge rates and collections. Unsatisfactory cost
recovery has led indirectly to inadequate funding for O&M.
64.   To help improve cost recovery and O&M in government irrigation schemes,
including those financially assisted by IDA, a time-bound action plan
affecting all government-managed irrigation schemes was prepared. Such an
action plan will aim to achieve and maintain full recovery of O&M and, to the
extent possible, a portion of investment costs. The time-bound action plan
includes pilot projects to test: (a) mechanisms to provide incentives to DOI
staff and managers for improvements in cost recovery; (b) joint DOI-farmer
responsibility for O&M of large schemes; (c) retention of water charge
revenues for use in the O&M of the system where such revenues were generated;
and (d) incentives such as water wholesaling (water charge discounts) for
farmer groups in DOI schemes that assume greater responsibility for O&M and
fee collections. It also includes steps to review and revise legislation and
regulations, as needed, to make these consistent with the objectives and
strategy of the action plan. The action plan will be implemented from FY90.
Satisfactory progress on the implementation of the action plan will be a
condition for release of the third tranche.
3/    Thee exceptional projects are the Mahakali Irrigation project
(Cr. 1924-NEP) in the Far Western region and the Bhairawa Lumbini
Groundwater II Project (Cr. 1316-NEP) in the Western region.



- 23 -
65.    Coordination between the various agriculture service agencies has been
weak, even in irrigated areas where the potential for increased production is
greatest. The Government proposes to prepare and implement a time-bound
action plan to improve coordination at all levels between irrigation and
agricultural service agencies, including those involved in input distribution
and incorporate this plan in the FY90 budget. The plan will include
mechanisms for monitoring the improvements in coordination.
C. Financial Sector Reforms
66.   A healthy financial sector is a prerequisite for sustained economic
growth. The financial sector in Nepal, however, suffers from serious
problems. Major lending institutions (the two largest and government-owned
commercial banks, namely Nepal Bank (NB), Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB), Nepal
Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) and Agricultural Development Bank of
Nepal (ADBN)) have serious portfolio problems as a result of inappropriate
government intervention, inadequate central bank supervision, inadequate debt
collection efforts, and erosion of financial discipline. The Government
intends to privatize major commercial banks, in particular, Nepal Bank (NB),
in the medium-term as one step to enhance the sector's efficiency. The major
goal of sector reforms at this initial stage is to evaluate the magnitude of
the sector's problems, in particular of the two largest commercial banks, and
to start implementing corrective measures. Currently, the institutional and
technical issues of ADBN are being addressed through an ADB credit. At the
same time, IDA has been involved with NIDC through project lending and has
agreed with NIDC on a reform program as a condition of preparation of another
credit. The most pressing and so far unattended problems are those of NB and
RBB in the areas of management, financial condition and performance, portfolio
quality, and liquidity management. Debt recovery ratios are clearly quite
low; 25Z of their portfolio is in arrears. A preliminary examination of these
banks' books suggests that they would have substantially negative net worth if
internationally accepted accounting standards for bad debt provisioning and
suspension of interest were applied. The implication for the economy is
alarming because these two banks control about 952 of the country's commercial
banking assets. The magnitude of their problems will grow and will act as a
serious constraint un economic development unless appropriate action is tiken
now.
67.   Weak supervision by the Central Bank (Nepal Rastra Bank -- NRB) has
added to problems arising from the overall lack of financial discipline and
the banks' archaic management and accounting practices. NRB does not have
sufficient power to perform all of the supervision functions and has not
adjusted its supervision policies appropriately in response to changes in the
banking sub-secto_ and the serious financial problems of the commercial banks.
In addition, regulations are inadequate especially where it concerns capital
adequacy, loan classification, and accounting policies relating to provisions
and suspension of accrued but uncollected interest. The weak financial basis
of the two commercial banks is further eroded by the Government's requirement
that banks increase the number of bank branches in rnral areas to expand
lending in priority sectors (agriculture, small scale industry and services).
A small portion of priority sector lending is required to be made at
concessionary interest rates (152) although most interest rates have been



- 24 -
liberalized since 1986 and most lending rates are around 19-21Z. Currently
the overall rate structure appears largely in line with what the market might
determine.
68.   In view of the magnitude of the commercial banks' problems, the
Government plans to examine their actual financial condition, identify
corrective measures, and start implementing recommended strategies and
technical assistance projects. The first step will be to carry out
independent external evaluation of the banks' loan portfolios, and determine
the causes of their problems as well as to recommend corrective measures. The
Government is, thus, undertaking a Commercial Bank Problem Analysis and
Strategy Study (CBPASS). CBPASS should start by the end of July 1989 and upon
its completion, by the third tranche release, appropriate provisioning and
capital replenishment should be carried out based on its results. The study
is likely to be followed up in future IDA adjustment operations in Nepal.
Implementation of corrective measures recommended by CBPASS should also start
before the third tranche release, e.g., use of uniform and improved financial
statements and preparation of technical assistance identified by the CBPASS as
high priority. CBPASS will also define technical assistance needs of the
commercial banks in order to strengthen their management. A separate study to
increase the efficiency of bank branches will also be carried out.
69.   Along with implementing CBPASS, the two commercial banks need to improve
debt recovery. In this context, the Government will formulate and implement
an action plan to honor its guarantees to commercial banks in respect of
overdue bank loans to public enterprises and announce and implement standard
procedures for honoring guaranteed loans in the future. Public enterprises
will also be asked to bring all their loans current through payment or, where
appropriate, rescheduling. NRB should receive quarterly reports from the
banks on the status of all public enterprise and guaranteed loans. The two
commercial banks have prepared an action plan for improving debt recovery.
This plan includes the proposed organization and staffing for a debt recovery
unit, standard operating policies and procedures, information on overdue loans
and the 50 largest defaulters, and implementation of quarterly reporting
system to monitor actual collections versus target collection rates for these
defaulters. Furthermore, information on defaulters should be improved through
a centralized Credit Information Bureau (CIB) established in May 1989.
Through information available at CIB, any defaulter at one member bank will be
prohibited from receiving increased credit from other banks unless the
defaulters repay the loan or the bank holding the defaulted loan approves the
new credit or is repaid from the proceeds.
70.   The Government also intends to improve the legal and institutional
environment: (i) by restiucturing and strengthening supervision and inspection
functions of NRB with IMF technical assistance; and (ii) implementing
regulations, also with IMF assistance, in the areas of asset classification,
lending limits, and enforcement of actions.
71.   To support the financial sector reforms, tax laws will be amended so
that provisions and interest suspensions required by NRB are tax deductible.
Furthermore, given the financial weakness of the two largest commercial banks,
government efforts to raise bank lending to the poor and the priority sectors



- 25 -
should proceed with pzoper caution so potential negative impact upon the
financial sector would be minimized. Such caution includes keeping within
prudent maximum lending levels, making this kind of lending more viable for
the banks and improving the administration of these loans. Finally, to help
maintain sound banking practices, satisfactory standards of accounting and
auditing should be adopted along with taking initial steps to adopt their
enforcement procedures. Implementation of these measures would take place in
FY89.
III. The Proposed Operation
History
72.   From the start of SAL I preparations, the Bank recognized that several
adjustment operations would be necessary to tackle Nepal's deep-seated
problems. SAL I became effective in April 1987 and the second tranche was
released in April 1988. Discussions on potential areas of policy reform to be
supported by SAL II started at the SAL I second tranche review in November
1987. Dialogue with the authorities continued throughout FY88, and the pre-
appraisal mission visited Nepal 4.n September-October 1988. The proposed
operation was evaluated by the Bank management in February 1989, and was
appraised in the same month. After the Negotiations which took place from
May 3-17 1989, the Letter of Development Policy was issued on May 26. This
Letter forms the basis of this operation.
Key Actions in the Proposed Operation
73.      The proposed operation would build upon the reforms under way and
facilitate further reforms to improve macroeconomic performance, agriculture,
and the financial sector. The proposed policy measures are incorporated in
the attached Letter of Development Policy in which the Government affirms its
commitment to implement the agreed program. The current second year PFP,
distributed and reviewed by the Committee of the Whole in December 1988, is
fully consistent with the proposed SAL II program. Key actions critical in
the adjustment process which form the core of the proposed conditionality are:
(a) in the macroeconomy, (i) increasing revenues and revenue elasticity,
and limiting domestic financing of the budget deficit to a manageable level;
(ii) liberalizing the import regime; and (iii) improving the management of
public expenditures by strengthening the Planning Commission and line
ministries' capacity to undertake development budgeting, establishing
procedures to estimate resources more accurately and formulate more realistic
expenditure programs, and ensuring adequate O&M and speedy fund release for
priority projects;
(b) in agriculture, (i) agreeing on a medium-term strategy for
fertilizer stock management and distribution which clearly defines the role of
the oublic sector, and in the short-term, further liberalizing distribution by
removing certain restrictions on private dealer activities; and
(ii) establishing legal status for irrigation water user groups, implementing
cost recovery measures, and handing over a number of public sector irrigation
schemes to water user groups; and



- 26 -
(c) in the financial sector, (i) implementing external audits/studies of
the two government-controlled commercial banks along with the implementation
of recommended strategy actions, including taking adequate provisions for bad
debts; (ii) improving debt recovery of commercial banks; and (iii) improving
central bank supervision and regulatory functions.
Benefits and Risks
74.   Specific measures taken or planned to be taken in connection with SAL 1I
are expected to help sustain growth of the productive sectors in Nepal, which
would eventually reduce macroeconomic imbalances. Improved macroeconomic
management would enable the Government to mobilize more resources and to
allocate these resources more efficiently. The resulting improved public
investment portfolio will be implemented more rapidly, aided by measures
supported by SAL II. Agricultural production will increase through greater
availability of fertilizer and irrigation, and continued industrial growth
will be promoted through trade liberalization. Complementary financial sector
reforms are intended to enable the sector to begin allocating financial
resources more efficiently and at the same time prevent deepening of the
current serious problems the banking system is facing, which, if left
unattended, would have disastrous consequences.
75.   Another benefit derived from the SAL process is the increased awareness
of the need for an appropriate policy framework to encourage and sustain
economic growth. The large macroeconomic imbalances which preceded SAL I
dramatized the need for basic structural reforms; the severity of the
imbalances forced the Government to evaluate the extent to which an
inappropriate policy and institutional framework thwarted economic growth.
SAL I permitted the Government to begin to address some of the systemic issues
which previous development projects had failed to tackle. While the crisis
has abated, the commitment to reform on the part of central decision makers
remains strong. During preparation of SAL II, key officials have demonstrated
a growing understanding that effective management of resources is a
prerequisite for development and growth. Interaction with the Bank and IMF
staff in the course of the structural adjustment process has helped the
officials appreciate the importance of timely adjustment of policies and
satisfactory resource allocation, budgeting, and monitoring procedures.
76.   Despite the broad commitment to the objectives of the program, it is not
without risks. As in most countries, the officials in charge of implementing
the adjustment program face opposition from within the bureaucracy as well as
from private interest groups. In addition, Nepal's special political history
and traditions present uncertainties which could undermine reforms in ways
which are difficult to anticipate. In particular, there is the risk that the
financial sector reforms might be jeopardized by a continuation of deep-seated
lax loan repayment practices and political interference. This risk will be
minimized by the strong commitment to the reforms on the part of the senior
management of NRB and MOF, the CBPASS, the new accounting requirements for bad
debts and the technical assistance under the credit by the IMF and other
experts to Improve banking supervision.



- 27 -
77.   The prominence of the Basic Needs Program poses another risk.  Under
pressure to meet unrealistir short term targets, officials may resort to
intervention in the economy which would Jeopardize the adjustment program.
There is also a danger that preoccupation with meeting unrealistic targets
will divert the Government's attention and resources away from the agreed
adjustment and investment programs or may lead to excessive spending.
78.   Recent developments on the trade front have added an additional and
potentially far more significant risk factor to the adjustment process. While
the bulk of the SAL II program is likely to be relatively unaffected by the
on-going difficulties in negotiating on the trade and transit treaties w2.th
India, the structure of Nepal's trade regime and its budgetary position will
be affected by the outcome of these events. The breakdown in the trade and
transit arrangements and HMG's on-going efforts to restructure its trade
regime has led to a slowdown in economic activities and put pressures on its
monetary/fiscal position. This will eventually impact on Nepal's external
position although Nepal has quickly taken measures to liberalize its third-
country imports substantially. Such measures are found acceptable by the Bank
and the Fund. If prudent macroeconomic policies are not followed, there is
the potential for more long-term economic instability which would Jeopardize
the adjustment process. These risks will be reduced through IMF monitoring of
the SAF benchmarks and the Bank's interaction with the Government at both the
macroeconomic and sectoral level under the third-year PFP.
Poverty and Adiustment Lending
79.   More than a half of Nepal's population live in absolute poverty.  The
combination of the low income per capita and rather egalitarian income
distribution implies that there is not much room for ameliorating poverty
through redistribution. What is needed is broad-based generation of income.
Yet, the Government's ability to tackle poverty issues has been constrained by
decades of economic stagnation. In addition, current trade and transit
difficulties with India are further exacerbating the country's poverty
situation by creating shortages in essential goods and, by crippling
transport, isolating numerous communities in the Hills. Until the new trade
and transit agreements are reached, these social disruptions are likely to
persist. As discussed above, the original decision to embark on a structural
adjustment program in Nepal reflected a recognition on the part of the
Government and the donor community that more than a decade of traditional
development projects had little impact on the country's pervasive poverty. It
was agreed that broad reforms in the policy and institutional framework were
required to complement the extensive program of ongoing and proposed
development projects designed to address income generation and the poverty
problem more directly. The experience of SAL I shows that this expectation
was largely correct, and that the general social impact has been positive.
80.   The proposed SAL II is also expected to have a generally positive impact
on poverty. This expectation stems from four factors. First, the program is
oriented towards growth rather than one of fiscal austerity. Facilitated bv
SAL/SAF resources and the revenue increase resulting from successful
adjustment measures, public expenditures, including social expenditures, are
expected to continue to expand in real terms. The proposed broadening of the



- 28 -
tax base will affect largely tax exempted corporations and richer farmers.
Second, sectoral policies are designed to increase production and employment
in agriculture where the bulk of the poor are located. Although official
prices of some fertilizers may increase to maintain parity with Indian prices,
these adjustments are unlikely to impose a significant burden on farmers,
especially small ones with no hoarding capacity, who in the past often paid
exorbitant prices because of distributional bottlenecks and periodic
shortages. The improved supply situation and diminished leakages to India
would benefit most farmers. The new irrigation policies, giving farmers a
greater role in management of schemes and more uniform cost recovery policies,
are expected to benefit farmers by providing more reliable irrigation
services.
81.   Third, the adjustment efforts other than in agriculture are largely
designed to reduce economic rents or transfer them to the budget through
liberalizing investment and import licensing procedures. This will hurt
primarily those (generally higher income people) who have been receiving the
economic rents. The incomes of many of the urban poor will increase as
improved incentives and increased availability of imported inputs for small
industries generate productive employment as in the case of the carpet and
garment industries. Fourth, the thrust of the financial sector reforms is
unlikely to have any significant adverse effects on the poor, since their
economic activities lie primarily in subsistence agriculture. Moreover, the
creation of viable financial instituticns should in the longer-run allow more
credit to flow on a sustainable basis to a wider range of productive
activities.
82.   The SAL process, however, cannot address the entire poverty problem in
Nepal. Careful preparation and implementation of complementary investment
projects are needed to alleviate po7erty. In addition to supporting the
income generation emphasis of the Basic Needs Program through SAL II,
therefore, the Bank places high priority on improving the quality of social
services through better delivery systems. Tackling the issues of social
service delivery systems requires institutional and human resource
improvements which are better addressed through instruments other than SAL.
IDA has also prepared a social sector review (Report No. 7498-NEP) as a basis
for expanding our operations into health and family planning. In addition, in
support of the Government's efforts taoard poverty alleviation, IDA is
initiating a poverty study to identify effective targeted poverty programs
that donors can finance.
Addressing Environmental Concerns
83.   Forestry in Nepal accounts for 62 of GDP and meets over 902 of rural
energy needs. In the Hills, forests are an integral part of the farming
system, providing fodder for livestock, leaf litter, and fuelwood for
household energy. As such, Nepal's forestry, and therefore environment is
closely linked with the pervasive poverty situation and population pressures.
Due to stagnant income growth, an increase in the use of commercial energy
sources as well as animal feeds and fertilizers has been slow. High
population growth, as a result, is translated directly to an increase in



- 29 -
demand for arable land and forest products. In the past 15 years, the forest
cover has been reduced by 272 as a consequence.
84.   The Government is well aware of the problem and has made extensive
efforts to come to grips with the situation and take measures against the
trend of deforestation/deterioration of the environment. First, to understand
fully the intevaction among natural resource base, agriculture, livestock, and
poverty, and to derive major policy measures for the future, the Government
has commissioned several studies on the environment including the national
conservation plan and a study on natural resource management environment. The
latter has been supervised by U.K. ODA and IDA and should be completed later
this summer. Drawing upon this study and numerous related Bank sector
studies, IDA plans to start work on a comprehensive environmental strategy
report in FY90. Second, the main objective of the Government's SAP, supported
by SAL I and SAL II is to accelerate growth in incomes and employment in ways
which will relieve pressures on renewable resources thus mitigating
environmental degradation. Third, in addressing forestry sector in
particular, both the Government's recent Forestry Master Plan and Forestry
Sector Policy have the major objective of meeting the needs of the people by
establishing a system to conserve and expand the forest resources which
sustain traditional farming system in the Hills through a particular emphasis
on the forest management by local forest users themselves. Measures toward
this direction were initially supported by SAL I, and recently IDA's Hill
Community Forestry project presented to the Board in May 1989 builds upon
these efforts to fully support community-oriented forestry management.
Finally, the Government is renewing at the same time its efforts to tackle the
population issue; an effort IDA is supporting through a planned Population and
Health project.
Proposed Financing
85. IDA would support the above reforms through a US$60 million credit which
would be used to finance general imports other than those specified in a short
list of ineligible items. Disbursements will be in three tranches, in roughly
a year. The borrower would be the Government of the Kingdom of Nepal. The
primary implementing agency would be the Ministry of Finance. KFW will
cofinance SAL IX on a parallel basis. ODA is expected to support the SAL
program with parallel program assistance.
Credit Administration and Management
86.   The Government's SAL Financial Coordinating Committee, comprising
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and from the Nepal Rastra Bank,
will have overall responsibility for the preparation and submission of
withdrawal applications. This will include the collection and coordination of
all supporting documentation including relevant letters.
Disbursements and Procurement
87.   The proposed Credit will finance 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible imports. Contracts for the import of goods by the private sector
will be awarded on the basis of normal commercial practices of the purchaser.



- 30 -
Purchase of imports of less than US$1 million equivalent by the public sector
will follow the public sector's procurement regulations. These regulations
have been reviewed by the Bank and found to be acceptable. Except for
proprietary items, all imports from the public sector exceeding US$1 million
will be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased through
price quotations available from organized international commodity markets.
Public sector contracts for proprietary items may be let on a negotiated
basis subject to the prior approval of IDA. Goods will be sold to the final
users at prices that reflect, Inter a8Ia, the international prices of the goods
plus applicable customs duties and taxes.
88. Disbursements under the Credit would be facilitated by the establishment
of a Special Account of US$13.5 million equivalent in the Nepal Rastra Bank.
It is anticipated that most of payments will be financed out of the proceeds
of this Account. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account will
be submitted when the amounts withdrawn exceeds 25Z of the amount deposited
into the Special Account (Authorized Allocation) or every three months
whichever comes first. Disbursements for all contracts above US$400,000
equivalent will be fully documented. Disbursements against small contracts of
less than US$400,000 but more than US$10,000 will be made on the basis of an
itemized statement of expenditures (SOE). The SOE will include
(i) description of goods; (ii) country of origin; (iii) date and currency of
payment; and (iv) beneficiary. Supporting documentation such as invoices,
contracts, bill of lading and evidence of payment will be retained by the SAL
Financial Coordination Committee for periodic examination by Bank staff.
Expenditures for goods procured under contracts of US$10,000 equivalent or
less will not be eligible for financing from the Credit. Retroactive
financing of US$12.0 million equivalent would be provided for eligible
expenditures incurred commencing February 15, 1989.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
89.   The SAL Financial Coordinating Committee will maintain records and
accounts of all transactions under the Credit in accordance with sound
accounting practices. Auditing of these accounts as well as the Special
Account will be performed annually by the Auditor General's Office of the
Government in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Certified copies of the accounts and the audit reports will be furnished to
IDA within six and twelve months after the end of each fiscal year,
respectively. The audit should contain a separate opinion from the auditor as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. Within
twelve months of the Closing Date, the SAL Financial Coordinating Committee
will submit a project completion report to the Association.
90.   Local currency counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign
exchange provided by the Credit will be added to the budget and subject to
normal public finance expenditure controls.



- 31 -
Monitoring and Tranche Release
91. Monitoring of performance under the SAL will be carried out through
regular supervision missions assisted by staff members of the Resident
Mission. A system of monitoring has been established at the Resident Mission
in Kathmandu whereby reports on policy performance will be prepared every
quarter. These reports will cover major economic developments and significant
policy changes during the previous quarter and are meant as internal briefings
for the Country Department.
92.   Assuming satisfactory progress on the program, the proposed SAL would be
disbursed from June 30, 1989 to December 31, 1990 supporting Nepal's FY89,
PY90, and part of FY91 foreign exchange requirements. The first tranche of
SDR 15.4 million (US$20 million) would be released upon Credit effectiveness
expected by August 1989, the second tranche is expected to be released around
October 1989 and the third tranche around May 1990. Both tranche releases
will take place after a joint review by the Government and IDA of progress
under the program.
93.   The second tranche review will take place in the early fall of 1989, at
which time the FY90 budget would have been passed and the third year Policy
Framework Paper would have been agreed upon. Prior to the second tranche
release, it is expected that the Government would have established and
committed to a satisfactory medium-term policy framework. The Government
would also have adopted an automatic price adjustment mechanism for
fertilizers. Hopefully, the Government would also be in a position to focus
less on mitigating short-term impact of the current problems and move on to
accelerating growth within a stable macroeconomic environment.
94.  Prior to the proposed third tranche release it is expected that the
Government would take the following actions: (i) adopt a FY90 budget that has
at least NRs. 300 million additional revenues from new measures, limits
domestic financing of budget deficit (excluding payments to commercial banks
to honor government guarantees) to no more than NRs. 1,400 million, and
includes O&M expenditures satisfactory to IDA for irrigation, transport,
power, and education sectors; (ii) adopt an action plan and timetable
satisfactory to IDA for phasing out the income tax holidays for new
enterprises; (iii) adopt a simplified duty drawback or prior exemption system
satisfactory to IDA for all exporters; (iv) adopt procedures for import
license auctioning satisfactory to IDA; (v) expand the coverage of
OGL/passbook systems of import licensing so that these systems cover at least
502 of non-aid third country imports in FY90; (vi) make adequate progress in
implementation of the new irrigation strategy in terms of (a) establishment of
a formal irrigation management division within DOI, (b) improved 0&M of DOI
schemes by adequate budget allocation and farmers' participation, (c) turning
over to farmers of smaller DOI schemes, and (d) improved cost recovery
mechanism; (vii) make payments to commercial banks according to a timetable
satisfactory to IDA to make current all government-guaranteed commercial bank
loans to public enterprises that are overdue as of July 15, 1989; (viii) make
all arrangements necessary to make tax deductible provisions for bad debts and
suspended interests required under NRB guidelines, and to bring NIDC under NRB
supervision; (ix) based on recommendations of CBPASS, recapitalize the NBL and



- 32 -
RBB after directing the banks to take necessary provisions for bad debts and
suspend interests according to the schedule of provisioning and capital
adequacy, satisfactory to IDA; and (xi) achieve debt recovery targets of NB
and RBB satisfactory to IDA.
IV. Bank Group Operation and Strategy
95.   Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then 51
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$812.0 million equivalent. Five sectors account for about 90S of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture; water supply and sewerage; power
and energy; telecommunications; and highways. IDA disbursements have been,
US$72.6 million in FY87 and US$96.2 million in FY88. Notwithstanding some
progress in the infrastructure sector, implementation, operation and
management constraints associated with weakness of public administration have
been serious. IDA assistance has thus emphasized institutional development.
IFC has made two investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million) for
the expansion of the Soaltee Hotel project in Kathmandu, and the second in
FY82 (DM 14.5 million) to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the mining and
production of dead burnt magnetite. No IBRD loans have been made to Nepal.
96.   The international community has provided considerable resources for
Nepal's economic development. Utilization of this aid has been constrained,
however, by Nepal's limited absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project
preparation and implementation. The Bank Group has provided assistance to the
Government in project preparation through three Technical Assistance Credits
(Cr. 659-NEP, 1379-'EP and 1902-NEP), by acting as Executing Agency for a
number of technical assistance projects financed by UNDP, and by supporting
improvement of development expenditure management under SAL operations.
97.   Prior to the advent of adjustment lending, the Bank's assistance
strategy focused primarily on infrastructure development (hydropower, highways
and irrigation in particular), and agriculture and forestry with a small but
consistent involvement in industry and education. This strategy reflected the
persistent need for basic economic infrastructure in a country virtually
undeveloped before the mid-1950's, the dependence of the economy on
agriculture, and the scarcity of trained human resources at all levels.
Despite some progress, there is a continuing need for IDA support to develop
Nepal's vast hydropower resources both for internal consumption and export, to
support the creation of a primary road network and to realize the country's
considerable irrigation potential; in agriculture, to improve productivity,
particularly of foodgrains, in both hills and terai and to arrest forest
degradation, principally through agricultural research and extension and
community forestry; and in education, to improve and expand technical training
as well as primary schooling.
98.   In the past, many of our projects experienced problems when faced by
constraints of a sectoral or cross-sectoral nature--related, for example, to
cost recovery, provisions for operation and maintenance, and public
administrative efficiency. In a country where decision-making on policy
matters tends to be centralized and where the mobilization of senior



- 33 -
government members' support can pay great dividends, a SAL-led approach to
policy and institutiona change is proving to be an effective complement to
project and/or specific sector-level interventions.
99. Apart from extending the reach of the adjustment process and reinforcing
its provisions in sectors of our traditional involvement, the Nepal program is
likely to display an increasing emphasis on the social sectors (education,
population, health) over time, and to stress poverty alleviation goals more
systematically; in this respect our work will complement the Government's
major new Basic Needs initiative, designed to raise the living standards of
the poor significantly by the year 2000. In addition, any effort to alleviate
poverty in Nepal must address foremost the question of natural resource
balance, both in sector work and lending program (see paras. 83 and 84 above).
Further to the assistance of Government's efforts in the areas of forestry and
environment described in these paragraphs, another credit focusing on forest
management in the Terai is in the pipeline. In the meantime, environmental
issues are given special attention in processing all projects for Nepal.
100. Over the next several years, the Bank will seek to strike a proper
balance between the necessary emphasis on quick- and high-yielding investments
(such as agricultural extension services, irrigation rehabilitation, and
cottage industries), and an equally important covmitment to longer-term
developmental and institutional issues (such as public administration
inefficiencies, poor project planning and implementation, rapid population
growth, and export-oriented hydropower development). This assistance will be
delivered through a combination of adjustment and project lending, technical
assistance, and economic and sector work.
V.   Collaboration with the IMF
101. The IMF approved a Stand-by arrangement with Nepal in 1985 in support of
a stabilization package covering 1985-86. Subsequently, Nepal adopted a
medium-term structural adjustment program (1987/88 - 1989/90) that was
supported by a SAP arrangement with the IMF for an amount of SDR 23.65 million
in October 1987. The second annual SAF program was approved by the IMF Board
in December 1988. There has been close coordination between IDA and the IMF
during preparation of SAL II. The second year program under the SAF
arrangement was developed in conjunction with the preparatory work for SAL II.
Nepal has expressed interest in a third SAP arrangement with the Fund, and the
Fund is exploring the basis for a new medium-term program that could be
supported by an SAF. While each institution is taking the lead in particular
areas (e.g., revenue mobilization atnd government debt management for IMF and
expenditure rationalization for IDA), consistency and coordination have been
ensured through joint mis.ions and preparation of the PFP. The Fund will
provic. achnical assistance to strengthen central bank supervision and to
enhance the efficiency of ?repal's indirect tax system, which are both
components of SAL II.
102. Nepal's outstanding purchases of the Fund's ordinary resources are now
SDR 18.65 million and the outstanding SAF is also SDR 18.65 million. The
outstanding Trust Fund loans amount to SDR 1.1 million. Debt service payments
to IMF are SDR 8.5 million in 1989 and SDR 10.3 million in 1990.



- 34 -
VI. Recommendation
103. I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Socio-Economic Datal
Table 1 ....  1988 Social Indicator nata Sheet
Table 2 ....  Key Economic Indicators and Projections
Table 3 ....  Balance of Payments Indicators
Table 4 ....  Preliminary Macroeconic Projection
(1988189-1989190)
1 Tables 2 and 3 are based on projection included in the second-year PFP
issued in December 1988. Preliminary projection for 1988/89 and 1989/90
reflecting available information on effects of current trade and transit
difficulties appears in Table 4. The medium-term projection will be revised
and finalized during the preparation of third-year PFP this summer.



-36 -                                   X
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
NEPAL
Reference Groups (MQE)
Most
Recent                    Lower aid
196$       1975    Estimate   Low-income        income
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)         4.840      59588        7.041
Female (%)                        35          35          34         34          29
Agriculture (X)                   94          93          93         66          S5
Industry (%)                       2           1           1         14          16
Participation rate t%)
Total                             47          43          42         47          37
Male                              60          55          53         98          S1
Female                            34          31          29         35          23
Age dependency (X)                78.5        84.8        88.9       71i.        82.7
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total                                          6
Urban
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                                          3
Urban
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                    20          51          79         99         104
Male                     36          86         104        110         109
Female                    4          18         47          8?          99
Secondary: Total                    5         13          25         34          42
Male                    9          23         35          41         47
Female                  2          4          11          25         36
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                           29          29          35         39          31
Secondary                          18         24          28                     23
Pupils reaching grade 6 (X)                                                        72
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)                           9          17        327         351
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households                     47
Highest 20%                                   59
Lowest 20%                                     g
Lowest 40%                                    13
Est, absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                                         55
Rural                                         61
Passenger cars/thou pop.           0.3
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)          2.7         7.5         6.8       32.0        43.9
IECSE August i988
.ot aaiable. 1ee Meet rt 0tmes of pouletln end GNP pet agits ae fr 1937 unlm otetwi noted.
Grp avvea  we ogulaetn weited. CmjntY coveae depend on dat aahlty end aI not unlfeom. Unle otlwwle noted.
1IM5 rabfr to en ye between 16 and IiLt 1975 betwen 1072 and ISM ad meet rt eatima betwen 1060 *nd 100



- 37                                   Table 1
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
NEPAL
Ret ererce GrUoDs I ?QE1
Most
Recent                     .Ower mid
1965       197      Estimate   Low-Income        income
AREA
Total lana area (thou Sq kA)    140.8         t40.8       140.8
Agricultural (% of total)          25.1        29.3        30.4
GNP PER CAPITA (cuteemt USS)           70          1?0        160         280         730
POPULATNO AND VITAL STATtSTICS
Total population (thou)          10.344      t2.841      17,444
Urban  op. (.  of total)              4           5           a          28          38
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                         2.2         2.6         t.9         2.5
Urban                                         5.5         7.6         5.7         4.2
Life expect. at birth (yrs)          40          43          47          61          59
Population projecttons.
POp. in 2000 (thou)                                    23.943
Stationary pop. (thou)                                 73.947
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                293         311         379         349         404
Pop. age structure (X)
0-t4 yrs                           41          43          43          37          42
15-64 yrs                          56          54          54          59          S5
SS ancabove                         3           3           3           4           3
Crude birth rate (per thou)          46          46          41          30          35
Cructe death rate (per thou)         24          21          17          10          10
Total fertility rate                6.0         6.5         5 9         3.9         4.7
Infant mort. rate (per tnou)        171         149         134          72          76
Child Ceath rate (per tnou)           30         25          20           9           II
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)             I         98         223
Users (% of married women)                     14          i5
FOoD. HEALTH AND NUTRITt0N
Index of food production per
capita (1979-81 a 100)               117         110         97         115         106
Per capita supply of:
Calories (per day)              1.931       1.882       1.997       2.327       2.507
Proteins (grams per day)           s0          49          5t          so          56
Pop. per physician (thou)          46.2        51.4        30.'         5.8         7.5
PoP. per nurse (thou)              87.8        17.7        33.4         4.0
Pop. per hospital 0bdt (tnou)                   7.1         5.7         1.1         1.1
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total                       8          ¶6
Uroan                     85          7*
Rural          .5                     i
Population Growth              Infant Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
120.
4.                          200-                                            -  - -
!5a-~8-
FIR ST 1t0                        19ou     t0           *sC0    tS0.   1S80
-m                        i:o^                    * "Zt"    I



Table 2. Nepal: Key Economic Indieators and Projections, 1982/S3-1990/91 1/ *
---------------------------------------------------------_--------------__---__-------_---------------------------------_-----------
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 198?/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92 1992/93
-----------------------_-------------------   Preli -    --------------------------------------------
Actual.                 minary                  Projectlons
GOP growth 2/                          -8.0      9.7      8.0      8.9       2.4      7.1      4.4      4.5       4.6      4.6      4.6
GDP per capita growth 2/               -5.7      7.0      0.8      1.4       0.0      4.6      1.8       2.0      2.1      2.1      2.1
Consumption per capita growth 2/        ...      9.1     -1.3     -1.6      -2.8      2.0      2.0       1.8      2.4      1.0      1.5
Debt *ervico (in USS on.)             -11.9    -18.6    -10.6    -2S.8    -28.2    -42.8    -80.2    -08.9    -73.8    -71.2    -70.6
Debt servico ratio a/                  -8.9     -4.8     -4.8     -6.9      -8.9     -8.8    -10.7    -11.1    -10.8      -9.5     -8.0
Dobt service/GOP                       -0.5     -0.5     -0.7     -1.0      -1.0     -1.4     -1.6     -1.9      -1.9    -1.7      -1.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP          19.6     17.9     19.6     19.8      19.4     22.0     22.8     21.1      21.0     21.9     22.8
Dom etic svings/GOP                     6.9      9.8     10.7      10.7     10.5     10.9     10.9      11.8     12.0     12.6      18.8
National savings/GDP                   11.0     11.3     12.8     11.9      12.2     18.0     18.2      18.6     14.2     14.2     14.0
Maroinal national savings rate          ...     12.8     27.7      9.7      14.4     17.7     14.8      19.0     17.0     14.0     17.7
Public invostment/GOP 4/                9.6      6.1      0.0      7.6       7.9      9.8      9.9      8.4       8.0      8.8      8.9
Public savings/GOP 6/                  -0.7      0.4      0.0      0.7       0.8      2.2      2.0       2.2      2.6      2.8      2.9
Privete investment/CDP                  9.9      0.7     10.4     10.6      10.6     12.7     12.4      12.7     18.0     18.1     18.4
Private savings/CDP                    11.7     10.8     12.8     11.2      11.4     10.8     11.1      11.6     11.7     11.4     11.7
Ratio of public/privote Investment    0.90      0.92     0.77     0.74      0.74     0.74     0.79     o.66      0.60     0.67     O."6
Government rovenues/GDP                 8.1      8.0      8.7      8.9      10.0     10.6     11.8     11.7      12.1     12.5     12.9
Government *xpenditures/GDP 0/         19.8     17.4     18.4     18.0      18.8     18.9     20.4     20.5      20.6     20.8     21.0      O
Government budget balonc-e/GP 7/      -11.7     -9.4     -9.7     -9.1      -8.9     -8.4     -9.1     -8.8      -8.5     -8.3     -8.1
Net doetic financing of
govorntment budget deficit           6.8       3.4      8.8      2.5      2.6       0.9      1.6      1.2       1.0      0.8      0.5
Export value growth                  -24.8      86.4    B8.7       1.4    -11.0      88.9     18.6     18.7     18.8      11.3     11.9
Exports/GDP                            8.8       4.1      6.2      6.0      6.1       6.0      6.0      6.8       7.1      7.8      7.5
Import value growth 4/                26.8    -6.9        2.4      8.8      6.8      26.0     12.0      0.8     11.9      10.4     10.8
Imports/GDP 4/                        18.8      16.8     17.7     16.1     18.6    20.6       21.8     19.9    20.6       20.8     21.2
Current account (in USB ins.)       -217.8   -182.6   -182.8  -197.6  -201.6   -277.8  -802.4   -200.8   -294.7  -827.0  -863.4
Current account/GDP 7/                -8.7      -6.8    -7.4      -7.6     -7.4      -9.0     -9.2     -7.2     -7.5      -7.7     -7.8
Sources: Data provided by the Nepalese authorities; and World onok and IMF staff estimates.
1/ Dats are for flcal years ending July 15.
2/ At constant prico.
8/ As a percent of exports of goods and services and private transfers.
4/ Includes the acquisition of two aircraft in 1987/68-1988/69.
5/ Dofined as saving by th- central govornmont.
6/ Includes not lending*.
7/ Excluding grents.
* Based on projection included in the second-year PFP Issued in Docember 1988. Preliminary projection for 1988/89 and 1989/90 reflecting
avallablo information on effects of current trade and transit difficulties appears In Tnble 4. The mediu-term projection will be revisod and
finalized during the preparation of third-year PFP this sumer.



Tablo 3 Nepal*  Balance of Payments  (in illIions of U.S. Dollar.) 1/ *
Ave 78/76
- 78/79   1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/8?  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1M90/91  1991/92  1992/93
Actual                     einary                    Proj ct"e
A. Exports of ONFS           176      249      273      301      329      346      895      481     506      583      621      685
1. Merchandlis  (FOB)         98       82      111      154      15S     1IN       186     217      24S      279      311      348
2. t4on-Factor Services       79      167      162      147      173      207      209      244     260      284      310      338
8. Imports of  mS           -238     -520     -499    -523      -e       -56      -787    -834    -850       -947    -104U    -1149
1. Herchandie  (CIF) 2/    -195    -457    -426       -488    -474    -507       -688    -718    -719    -004       -688     -982
2. NIn-F ctor Services       -42      -82      -74      -87      -8a       89    -104      -121    -181    -148    -15t       -167
C. RPource 8alance           -60    -270               -22      -250    -249    -842    -878    -844        -84      -422     -41
0. Not fctor lnca"             7       12        a        1       -o      -10       -8      -17     -17      -17      -1t     -*20
1. Receipts                    8       1S        6        5        8       5        10      11       12       18       14       15
2. Payments                   -1       -8       -4       -5      -12      -15     -18      -28      -29      -91      -82      -SI
E. Not Current Tr,naf.r       28       41       41       89       41       57       72      87      100      107      113      120
1. Current Receipt            29       48       44       41       4S       6l       76      92      105      118       20    127
a. Private remittance       ..       40       40       89       41       B8       74      C0      108      110      117       t24
b. Otr                      ..        4        4        2        5        2       2        2        2        2        8        a
2. Current Payante            -1       -2       -2       -2       -5       -S      -S       -S       -S       -8       -8       -7
F. Current Account Bat.      -26     -217    -182    -n88    -190    -202    -278          -02    -261    -298    -826    -868
O. LT Capital Inflow          61      lO6      162      1"2      214      l98      87S    380       287      S26      870      411
1. Di pect Invetnt..                                                                                  .
2. Off. Cpital Transfers      2                 94       79       72        7       ti      101     115t     1t27     16       176
S. Not LT Lans                22       67       78       71       92       90      181      218     1683     201      214      236
a. Disburement              ..       70       e8       76      101      100      158      190      194     285      250      27S
b. AmrtixatIon               ..      -3       -8       -5      -10      -10      -14     -28      -25      -26      -28      -81
c. Aircraft lon (not)       ..        0        0        0        0        0       40       St      -6       -8       -8       -8
4. Other LT Inflows           12       -2      -11      -2;1      49       41      138       11       9        0        0        0
(net) 8/
H. Total Other Item_           ..      ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..      ..
I. Chae  in Noat Reaerve.    -86       S7       21       68      -10     -18      .97      -27      -26      -4       -4k      -48
15t i Cdit from tha F I       .        6        4        a      -t0      -t0      -to      -9        a      -11      -U1      -20                                         '
2. Other Renrv. Chang         ..       S1       17       4S       -6      -8      -87      -18      -28      -22      -25      -28
t- Indicates iner e j
Share of GDP (current usOI:
1. Re-urc- Blance       -- 3.77    10.90    -8.85  -8.960   -8.776  -9.176  -11.06S   -11.81   -O.52t  -9.791   -9.81 a      9.9011
2. Total Interest Payaet   -0.09o  -0.11   -0.5181  -0.19U  -0.4t   -O.S04t   -0.51   0.841    0.811   -0.781   -0751  -0.75S
8. Current Account tal.    -1.o1t  -8.9t   -6.711  -7.891   -7.54t   -7.41S   -e.99s   -9.281t  -7.285   -7.85tS  -7.881  -7.80t
4. LT Capital Inflow        3.88     6.391    s.99e   s.2811  8.151    7.281   12.12t  10.061    7.941    8.881    8.85S   8.871
5. Nat Credit fnra the  4F    ..    0.2411   0.5151    0.2014 -o.68    -0.S7ti  -0.821   -0.2       0.07t  -0.281   -0.401  -0.421
%~moraldum, Ite.m
CDP(o;II Io n of current    1588     2800    2699    2470    200         2758    8009    8278    860s    8926    4275    4688
Forelgn Exchange Reirvoe:
1. Internaton Ieerve   1t28.3   199.2   188.8    82.0    S6.0    86.7   178.2               ..       ..
(rF Line 11d) 4/
2. Jld (Dec. Londe  pr.)   24.2    67.1    56.6    4S8,    48.t    59.0    78.7             ..       ..
. Cr. Re. ;nel. Cold  /  148.S   280.8   202.6   142.0   164.6   202.8   828.9   851.2   371.4   408.0   447.4   496.1
4. Or. Res. In Months        7.4      5.3      4.8      8.2      8.8      4.0      6.2      4.9      6.1     8.0      5.0      8.0
Import.
Exchange Rate.:
1. Nho. Official Exchange   12.06    18.8S    18.84    17.92    19.76    21.88    22.06   28.60   24.10    24.79    25.48    28.19
2. R"l Eff. Exchag Rate    ..  127.01   124.91  118.23  117.78  106.91  105.46   102.47   102.47  102.47   102.47   102.47
1980.100  Increase mean. real apprecIntion
8. Exchange Aste for CN    12.08    18.86    18.84    17.92    19.78    21.88    22.06    28.60   24.10   24.79    25.48    2S.19
conversion
1/ Totale may not add up due to rounding.
2/ Include. the acquiestion of two aircraft in 1987/80-1968/89.
8/  Includre errora and odmissons nd valuation adjuetento.
4/ Include, only monote-y autor;tyts re""ev.
6/ Total resrvee of th. country including rerven of the comereial banks.
*  imeed on project;on Included In the second-year PFP Issued in Decbeer 1968. Pr.llminarj projection for 1968/89 and 1909/90 reflecting available Information on
effect, of current trade and traneit difficulties appear. in Trbl- 4. The medium-ter. project on wmil be revised and final;xed during the preparation o  third-yar P2
this mumer.



Table 4. Preliminary Macroeconomic Projections a
(198/89 - 1989/90)
Key Economic Indicator Projection                                    Balance of Payment Projection 8/
1988/89 - 1989/90                                                   1988/89 - 1989/90
1966/89  1989/80                                              1988/89  1989/90
Preliminary                                                   Proliminary
Projections                                                   Projections
CDP growth 2/                         1.6      0.1                  A. Exports ofGFS                n29      a29
GDP per capita growth 2/             -1.1    -2.6                   1. Merchandise (FOS)            1SO      laS
Conumption per capita growth 2/    -11.7       7.7                  2. Non-Factor Services          171      194
Debt service (in US8 an.)           -80.2   -8.9                    8.  ports of  NFS              -644     -898
Deb service ratio 8/                -14.4   -15.7                    1. Merchandise (CIF) 9/       -649    -699
Debt servIe /GDP                     -2.0    -2.2                   2. Non-Factor Services          -96      -97
Oros d-mestic investment/GOP         18.8    21.1                   C. Resource Balance            -315     -387
Domstie savings/CDP                   8.0    11.8
National savings/GOP                  9.9    18.8                   D. Net Factor Income             -8       -8
Marginal natonal savings rate       -12.5    20.0                    1. Receipts                     16       20
Pubilc investment/GP 4/                     .                       2. Paymnts                      -24      -28
Public savings/GDP 5/
Private Investment/OP                   .                            E. Not C -ent Transfers         67       8S
Private savings/OP                     .                             1. Current Receipts             78       91
Ratio of public/private nvestment       .                               . Private remitetnces        69       86
b. Other                       4        6
Governmet revenues/GDP               10.0      9.8                  2. Current P eyments             -8       -6
Government expenditures/GOP G/       20.4    20.8
Governmt budget balance/00P 7/    -10.4   -10.6                     F. Current Account Sol.        -268    -290
Net dometic financing of
goverontment budget deficit         2.2      1.6                   . LT Capital Inflow            281      262
1. Direct Investment
Export value growth                 -16.4   -14.6                   2. Off. Capital Transfers        77       60
Exports/llP                           65.      4.4                  8. Not LT Loans                 204      182
Import value growth 4/              -12.4      9.1                    a. Disbursements              227      209
mports/GDP 4/                        16.6    19.4                     b. Amortization               -28      -27
Current account (in USI8 urs.)     -266.0  -290.0
Current account/GDP 7/               -8.7    -9.4                   I. Change In Net Reserves       -26       28
t- Indicates Increse
Source: Data provided by the Neplse authorities;
and World SBk and tI  staff etimates.                      8/ Total* way not add up due to rounding.
1/ Date ar* for ficlal years ending July 16.                        9/ tncludes the acquisition of an aircraft In 1988/9.
2/ At constant prisc.
8/ As a percent of exports of goods nd services and privote transfers.
4/ Includes the acquisition ot two aircraft In 1987/88-1968/69.
/ Defined as saving by the central govonnt.
6/ Includes not lendings.
7/ Excluding grants.
a Preliminry projection for 1988/89 and 1989/90 reflecting available information on effects of current trade and transit difficultie
The medium-torm projection will be revised and finalized during the prepoaratton of third-year PFP this sumner.



- 41 - 
IPag 1 of 2
NEPAL
The Status of Bank Qroup Oserattons ln Neal
A. STATEMENT OF CEITS g 
As OF Marbch 81, 1WO
Amouint
(lo   cancello1ions
--- US8 enll ion -
No.       Year    Borrower                   Purpos                    IDA    dibursed
Twenty-seven credits fully dibursed                                       296.4
10S5      19S0   KIngdom of Nepal    Irrigation (Nahakali)                 10.0        .7
1100 Jf   1981    Kingdom of Nepnl    Arculturl Ext.  Rearch               17.6       4.4
1101 tf 1981    Kinpdom of Nepal HIil Food Production                       8.0       8.7
1106 i    1962    Kingdo of Nepl    Scond Etducton                         14.8       6.1
1260 i    1962    Kingdom of Nepal   Potro. Exploration Prootion            7.9       2.4
1810 i    198    Kingdom of Nopal    Irrig. VI-Shairawa Lumbini            16.0       5.6
1889      1988    Kiagdo  of Nepal    Cash Crop Development                6.0        1.7
1879 i    1968    Kiagdom of Nepal   Technical Asslstae! 0I 8.0                       2.4
1400 i    1984    Kingdom of Nepal   Second Forestry                       16.0      18.9
1452 i    1964    Kingdom of Nepl    Karnali Prepration                    11.0       8.6
1468 i    1964   Kingdom of Nepal   Primary Educat!on                      12.6      10.7
1476 i    1964    Kingdom of Npal   Marsyngdi Hyrdoelectric Poer          107.0      81.2
1515 i    1965    Kingdom of Neal    Third Highways                        47.5      40.8
1584 if   1965   Kindom of Nepal   Agricultural Manpower 0".               6.4        9.0
1s58 if   1986    Kiagdom of Nepal    Industrial Devlopment                7.5        6.2
1570   I 196    Kingdo of Nepal    Agricultural Extension II                7.2       6.0
1688 if   1965   Kingdom of Nepal    Teleco_ontcation IV                  22.0       20.9
1696 i    1986   Kinom of Nepal   Cott*a  and Smll Id. tI                  10.0       6.1
1716 i    1966    Kingdom of Nepal   Naraysni III Irrigation              24.5       27.0
1727 i    1O6    Kingdom of Nepal   Third Rural Developmnt                19.1      20.1
1614 if   1967   Kingdom of Nepl    Sunsari Morang Irrlgation II          40.0       87.2
1902 if   1986    Kingdo  of Npl    Third Technical Assistance             14.4      18.7
1922 if   1998    Kingdom of Nepal   Road Flood Rehoabilltation            16.5      12.6
1924 i    1988    Kingdom of Nepal   Mahakall Irrigation II               41.8       88.1
1988  f  1989   Kingdom of Nepal   Municipal Dev. A Housing Recon.    41.5           39.9
Total                                                          85.68      420.1
of which has been repald                                     4.7
Total now oulndtas2/                                           881.1
Amount sold
Total now held I IDA
Total urndil8ursd                                              681.1      420.1
a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
VI  Prior to exchange adjustments.
g/  IDA 6th and 7th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US Dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President's Reports, and
undibured mounts shown in US Dollar equivalent. are valued at the exchange
rate applicable on the date of this statement.  In some ces, therefore, the
undisbursed kalance Indicates a dollar amount greater than the original
principal credit amount expressed in dollars.
d/ Not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
NEPAL
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1989)
Investment                                         Type of    Amount (US$ million)
No.      Year       Obliger                     Business   Loan   Equity  Total
312      1975   Soaltee Hotel (Private) Ltd.  Hotel         2.7      0.4    3.1
624      1982   Nepal Orind Magnesite           Mine and
(Private) Ltd.                process
magnesite
ore         5.0       -     5.0
Total gross commitmercs                                         7.7     0.4    8.1
Less cancellations. cerminations, repayments and sales           -       -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                               7.7 a/  0.4    8.1
Total undisbursed (including participants' portion)              -       -      -
a/  Exchange adjustments account for variance in total gross commitments, less
cancellations, etc., and total commitments now held by IFC.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Key Dates
Identification Mission        February 1988
Preparation Mission           July-August 1988
Pre-appraisal Mission          Sept.-October 1988
Appraisal Mission              February 1989
Negotiations                  May 3-17, 1989
Condition of Second Tranche Release:
Satisfactory progress in implementation of the program. In reviewing the
progress of the program, a satisfactory revision of the medium-term policy
framework as evidenced by, for example, the third-year Pol-cy Framework Paper
(PFP), and full operationalization of the automatic fertilizer price
adjustment mechansm will be taken into consideration.
Conditions of Third Tranche Release:
Si)    Adopt a FY90 budget that includes (a) at least NRs 300 million
additional revenues from taking new measures (of which NRs 200 million will
come from measures such as introducing new taxes, changing tax rates, and
expanding tax base, and the rest from improving tax administration); (b) the
domestic financing of budget deficit of no more than NRs 1400 million that
does not include domestic financing required for honoring government
guarantees or overdue commercial bank loans and (c) O&M expenditures
satisfactory to IDA for irrigation, transport, power, and education sectors;
(ii)    Adopt an action plan and timetable satisfactory to IDA for gradually
phasing out the income tax holidays for new enterprises;
(iii)   Adopt a simplified duty drawback or prior exemption system
satisfactory to IDA for all exporters;
(iv)    Adopt procedures for import license auctioning satisfactory to IDA;
(v)     Expand the coverage of OGL/passbook systems of import licensing so
that these systems cover at least 50Z of non-aid third country imports in
FY90;
(vi)    Make adequate progress in implementation of the new irrigation
strategy in terms of (a) establishment of a formal irrigation management
division within DOI, (b) improved O&M of DOI schemes by adequate budget
allocation and farmers' participation, (c) turning over to farmers of smaller
DOI schemes and (d) improved cost recovery mechanism;
(vii)   Make payments for FY90 to commercial banks according to a three-year
timetable satisfactory to IDA to make current all government-guaranteed



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
commercial bank loans to public enterprises that are overdue as of July 15,
1989;
(viii) Make all arrangements necessary to make tax deductible provisions for
bad debts and suspended interests required under NRB guidelines, and to bring
NIDC under NRB supervision;
(ix) Using recommendations of CBPASS, recapitalize the NB and RBB after
directing the banks to take necessary provisions for bad debts and suspend
interest according to the schedule of provisioning and capital adequacy,
satisfactory to IDA; and
(x)    Achieve debt recovery targets of NB and RBB satisfactory to IDA.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 16
Not.:  A subset of Actions 8efore Third Tranche Relosel
is denoted *s leal trench- conditions. They are
underscored In this matrix. Also see Annex III.
SAL II POUC  lTltD
Area                  Objectives             SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL II Actions         SAL It Actions         SAL II Actions To
Planned                                      Taken                 Before Third           Be Monitored
Tranch. Relaos
MACROECONOMIC
-Revenues             Increseo fiscal        Iplement program      Met or surpas ed                             Adopt      t that      Continue to
efticiency           agreed with 8ai-       all macroeconomic                            Tcud sR Ns00          broaden income
through enhanced      *nd IMF.              bencherks.                                   million                tax base.
tax bas,                                                                                   3TEieona I
Increasd                                    Simplified tariff                            revenue through
elasticity,                                 and sales taxes.                              new  asure. and 
improved tax                                                                             rqiretu .r tx e
alministration                                                     Close Ministry of     financ on  lsi
and Improved                                                       Finance against       then MRt  1.4
officlency of tax                                                  personnel              billTon.
structure.                                                         transfers from
other agencies
with a view to
stblishing a
Closed and
Unified Revenuo
Service In the
future.
Propsro an action
Ion to a,7iiiinsis
Uetoe  no
enttled-to tax
liilment the
first yeair
actTon.
Commence a study      Take initial
to enhance            steps to enhance
efficiency of         indirect tax
indirect tax          systems
syste, with a         recouended by
view to future        the IMF indirect
;ntroduction of       tax study team.
VAT-like systes.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 1S
SAL it POU       R
Arnos                  Objectives             SAL I Actions          Actual                 SAL It Actions          SAL II Actions         SAL II Acions To
Planned                                       Takon                  Beforo Third           Be Monitored
Trancho Relea_
Convort specific
excise on brick,
sugar and cooking
oil to ad valoram
tax.
-Dve lopment           Improve 0DA  of                                                                               udgot  d nutt
Expenditure           development                                                                                 Wm outlys
management            projects.                                                                                   iiobvIDA and
H"m  for
tirigation 
and education
sectors.I
Improve                Introduce program      Completed.             Extend program         Start Phase III        Satisfctory
efficiency of          budgeting In five      Education and          budgeting to nine      of Program             progress in PS/P^
public Investment      sectors                helth sectors          sectors to             budgeting and          Phas  III
through better         (agriculture,          were added In          include industry       project                Implmsntation.
prioritizing and       irrigation,            FY89 budget.           and housing.           monitoring
monitoring of          power, forestry                                                      (P8/PM) project
projocts.              and transport).                                                      to
institutionalize
Formulate core         Completed.                                    P8/PM in nine
development                                                          lino ministries
budget.                                                              and agencios.
Establish a                                   Satisfactory
formal Resources                              functioning of
Comittee.                                     Resources
Committe.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 16
SAL II PICY   A
Ares                 Objectlves            SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL II Actions        SAL II Actions        SAL II Actions To
Planned                                    Taken                 bfore Third           Be Monttored
Tronheh Re lease
Introduc  project    Comploted.            Improve project       EsUbtib b MIS in      Satisfactory
monitoring by        Implementation        monitoring            four line             progres  in
inst1IIIng the       was ahead of          through                aencies              project
*rstems and          schedule.             establishing MIS      (Irrigation,          monitoring with
,onitoring of                               I tn 001 and NEA     PO"t                  MtS istalled.
key project.                               and link line         agriculture9
gncy MIS'n with       roads)
key decision
makers.
Allow                 Initi                   DP/A               Designat 35 high      Vorify that these
Implementation of    I provemnt of          ccounting and        priority (high        projects reoivo
high priority        accounting and        auiting proj et       econeoic return)      local funds
projets to be        auditing              started although      projects that         expeditiously. 
*epedited i.hrough   prectices.            with some delay.      will suffer no                                               -
sooth budgetary                                                  impedisent In
release.                                                         receiving local
currency funds.
Improve budgetary                          Project
fund rolese,                                impl_emntation
mechanism                                   that no longer
Including                                  suffors from fund
delinking fund                              stoppage due to
release  from                               Irreularities
procedures to                              alone.
control budgetary
irregularltles.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of i6
SAL tU POLtCY MATRIX
____________ _______ ___ _____ __________------------------------------------------------ ____ __-_---------------------_________     ___________
Areas                 Objectives            SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL II Actions         SAL II Actions        SAL II Actions To
Planned                                     Taken                 Before Third          Be monitored
Tranche Release
-Trad                 Crate trade           Formulate and         GOnerally             Increus  lt.           Increase lt_n
r"e  that             introduce income,    satisfactory           under OGL/annual      und t          I
supports              *ale. and  xcise      completion, but       passbook so that n      bo      o
officient            tax reform;            duty-drawback         OL/annual
industrial            simplified tariff     system for ready-     passbook covers        ibIkcowre
developmwnt by        structueu;            made garmente has    minimou  of *tx Of         least S f
allowing              atremlining of        been slow and         non-oid third         non-aid third
exporters to          export and import    prior exemption        country importe
compete with          procedute.            or duty-drawback      for FY89.             for FT9
foreign producers                           for carpet has
on equal footing      Implement             not bn                Start prompt          Announce Ud            Implemet duty-
and maintaining       policies in           introduced,           drawback refund       IN _                   trawback ndr
incentives            indutrial policy                            to ready-ma           dPabII                 prior exemption
similar for           statement.                                  gormnte               on all xporta.        without            t
exporters and                                                     producers.                                   borsecrtic        S
Import substitute                                                                                             hindrance.          D
producers.                                                        Announce prior        Implement prior
exemption to          exemption to
carpet Industry       carpet industry
from FY90.           f*om FY90.
Increase              stl In  ;O*e
allocation for        Trc_ns
license auction       nuetlinso
to NRS1.6             that rru
billion.              soct  bid
should be
-lRcdMMbY a
on mmm Clbide
a etSoniat ior a
deteTnp re oton of
uce ul bids
an moainal bids.
s t;stetory
HMO/ADS studies
on comparative
cost structure;
export
diversification;
*nd marketing.



ANNE IV
Page 6 of 15
SAL II POLICY MAWRIX
Ar as                 Objectives             SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL 11 Actions         SAL II Actions         SAL 11 Actions to
Planned                                     Taken                  Before Third           Bo monitored
Trenche Release
AGRICULTURE
-Fertillser           Increase supply                                                    IncrJoea                                     Plan procurement
Distribution         and timely                                                         fortilizs                                    proce.  so that
availability of                                                    Imports by S0                                shipment of
fertilizer. to                                                     percent and strt                             fertilizers
increas,                                                           importing ahead                              arrive in ttme
agricultural                                                       of heavy usage                               for growing
production                                                         S muons                   *                  muon.
Libernlize            AlIce privnte         Allowed private        Prepar   nd is ue                            Implement the
fertillier            dealore where         dealers where          draft dealership                             substance of new
distribution          sajhas are not         sihas ar* not         regulations that                             regulation.
system.               functioning,          functioning. The       dereguatoe
nmber o  prite        fertilizer
dealers increaosd     distribution by:
by fivefold,          decontrolling
number of deler.
per zon";
reducing dealer
trading zone
reetrictions
while allowing
fu I I tranport
cost recovery by
doalers; allowing
private dealers
even In areas
where onjhno are
cti ve; and
allowtig all
deal,re to
appolnt
*ubd  lers.
Offer volume nd
advance purchase
discounte.



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of lt
SAL II POLCY MAITRIX
Areas                 Objoctives             SAL I Actions         Actual                 SAL II Actions        SAL II Actions         SAL II Actions To
Planned                                      Taken                 Before Third           Be monitored
Trench. Release
Increase              Liberalize            Generally              Achiove et least                             Maintain retail
automaticity in       partially              satistactory          retell prices                                and wholesale
price adjustment      fortilizer             progress made         parity with                                  prices at leest
to reduce price-      pricing so that        albeit with so"e      Indian priceu for                            as high as
Induced smuggling     Nepnlese prices       delay.                 all fortilizers,                             relevant Indian
to India.             maintain rough                               3/                                           prieen. AIC
p rity with                                                                               utiltres the
Sndian prices to                            Start onitoring                               authority to
minimize price-                              Indian wholesale                             change prices.
induced                                     prices, and
MuggiIng,                                   attempt to                                    Strengthen
maintain parity                              monitoring
AIC obtain            AIC given              at the wholesalo                             capacity of AIC.
authority to          authority to           level. 
adjust fertilizer     change fertilizer
preces,               prices up to 10l
at a time. This
authority was
utilized
recently.
Increase in           Authority given
fertilizer dealer     to AIC depots to
margins by two        increae margins.
percentage            Actual
points,               implementation
has been slow,
however.
Start ADS studie      Complete ADS
on storage,           studies *nd start
transport, and        implementing
basic fortilizer      study
strategy.             rco     dations.
Maintenance of *11 fertilizer prices above parity with India,
and full operationalization of automatic price adjustment mechanism
are conditions of the second trancho rolease.



ANNEX IV
Pog  7 of 16
sAL n PICY       Rx
Ar                    Objectivoe             SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL II Actions         SAL It Actions         SAL It Actions To
Planned                                     Taknn                  Before Third           Be Monitored
Tranehe Releas
-Irrigation           To implement new      Not  Iddresed in       High level            Issue guidelines                              Impl_ment
stratey               SAL I.                 Irrigation Sector     to DOM  and Chief                            guldellesn.
*ephaizuing                                  Steertng              distr it officero
gratr                                        Co itte               on simplified
collaboration                                established to        registratlon of
between HW and                               guId                  water user
famors in                                    I spl _ntetion of     association.
Irrigation                                  new stratgy.
developmnt and                                                     Establih a group           d on              Satisfactory
OWM.                                        DOI manpower           wlthin DOI for        *xperlinc              functioning of
human reeourcee       cost recovery;         a ined, or     r      the 00D  unit. 
study cempI od       supportir  and          n actioni iOn to,
soordin ting           __b_i_h forml
00  i n-house        ftmor                  Irrigation
tralaing center       organizations;        Mno   
(IMC)                 and monitoring        division7
established.          Ohm of DOI-
enaed sc heme.



ANNEX IV
SAL II POUCV  A1RIX
A                     Objectives            SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL II Action          SAL I Actions         SAL II Action* To
Plnned                                      Taken                 Before Third          Be 1onItored
Trench. Relmoos
Took force            Proporo acot             lament
ostabli h d to        recovery action       M1, etor11I
stuoy appropriate     plin. The plan        th con roory
cost recovery         should   - .
methods.              in-orporate
teating of
provision of
lnentlves to W I
system monagers
and staff for
Improvement In
cost recovery,
joint W1-faormer
responsibility
for ou, for
retention of
water charge
reenuos within
the *     scheme.
and water chares
discount (such am
water
wholoellng) for
farme groups
comenourat wlth
their OUM
reponsibilitias.
Design and            P       odo           prepare  nnuol
imp nt site                                 bleobts on the
specific OhM aNoc ton and                  ibasOf on-eite
estimation                                  0*3 estimation
method.  Also          RtEi!clis on.        mothod end
prpare* e                                   monltor and
*ePate                                      asses  Pes
emergeny repair                             yar's
progrm with                                 expenditures.
aIlocation.



ANNEX IV
Pop 9 of 15
SAL It POLICY  IRIX
Arose                Oboctivee             SAL!I Actiod s        Actual                SAL I! Actions        SAL II Actions        SAL!! Actions To
Planned                                    Taken                 Before Third          Be Monitored
Tranch Release
Prpare action         g           I
plan for turnover     lw lrnoors
of smailer            o     sO
Irrigation
*cl a  to farmer
association*.
Devlop formula
for exprIng
the production
ipac. of
increased                                                  U'
lntenstty in
term  of
addition l
Irrigated hectore
equivalents in
*llnboratlng the
Basic Moeds
Program targets.
Prepar action
plan to ilprove
coordination
between
Irrigation and
egrculturel
cerVtc aefncies.



ANNEX TV
Pose 10 of 16
SAL It POUC MAtRIXt
Ar                    Objectives            SAL I Actions         Actual                SAL  I1 Actions        SAL It Actions        SAL II Actions To
Planned                                     Taken                 Beforo Third          Be Monitored
Tranch. Release
FINNCIAL SECTOR       Encourage healthy     Not explicitly
development of        addressed In SAL
commercial            1.
banking setor.
Str ngthen                                                        Prepare               Commence CPASS
Commercial Banks                                                  ind pend-nt           by August 1 1896
p oblm  nalysis       an  complet by
nd *trategy           second trnch
study (CUPASS) of     and on basis
R8  and a             study, take
erowitiOnn and,
ca lculate nmm
roqtul       alnd
¢DIjIi7*ccordtng
tea provisioning
schedule and
capital adequcy
reatio that NU
specifies after
greeing with
IDA.
PrF r, an ctlon
TPEnn to brInong
other ldoan
curnt through
paywent and
appropriate
restheduling.



ANWFt IV
F;P  1  OT1-
SAL it POUCY    R
Ar4ea                 Objectives             SAL I Actions         Actu"l                 SAL U Actions         SAL tI    ion          SAL  I Actlons To
Planned                                      Taken                 Bf toro     d          B  Monitored
Tranche *selsos
N and R89 to          NO and RES
prop r  action
plan for                        PMnntoxdb
Improving debt        rocovo:T ryrlt7E
recovery.             __ t r __t__rsee
Establ sh Credit      Operlat  CIO
Infor"tion            satisfactorily.
Bureau (CB).
NRO to require
that banks not
lend to
defau ltores
identifled by CIB
without letters
of no objoctlon.
RSB and NS to
start to Improve
ccountIng,
credit proces.
budget)no, U5,
liquidity
mang e t and
computerization
wlth TA within
CBPASS and
rocowended by
CDPASS.
Finalize TOR and      Complete branch
prpare branch         study, and *stat
efficiency            implementing
monitoring and        recommendations.
cost study.



.2   t               -56 -
~ I
,     ~..
'Ii
A! I                                   ci  i
I 



AN£X IV
P*g IN of 16
SM. tt POLICY                                              13.RI1
Areao                 Objectivs            SAL I Action          Actual                SAL It Actlons        SAL  I Actions        SAL  t Actions To
Planned                                    Taken                 Before Third          B  Monitored
Tranche Rolea*
Issue R
directive raising
inimum benk
capital
requiremnts to
83 of ritk
adju ted assets.
On IntOre basis,
Capital hould be
ra I d to 2.61 of
total depo lto
Increasing to 4X
total aets In a
yers.
Iooue diretlv
limiting bank
credit to one
borrower to 2i;X
of capitol in
principle. As
longe as the,
capitol to
deposit ratlo is
2.56 the lnding
lilit should be
O6X dsellning to
25t In 6 ye rs as
capital *dequacy
requiromnt.
lncreae.



ANNE IV
Poeg 14 of 16
SAL II POLICY AliRX
Area"                 Obj.ctiv.s             SAL I Actions         Actual                 SAL II Actions        SAL It Actions         SAL II Action* To
Planned                                      Taken                 Before Third           Be Monitored
Tranche Release
Ioprove Financial                           Revised NRB Act        Complete final         Enact moifled
Environment                                  *nd Comercial         draft* of NRB end      Co_merctal
Bank Act prepared     Commercinl            Banking Act and
In draft.             Banking Act           NR8 Act as *gred
after IDA's and       and enac
ILF s reviwo.         mod I?T;] IDC Act
to that NIOC will
be ane
cuPervilon of
Prepare               Enact modified
legsltot1n            Incom  Tax Act.
(Ince  Tax Act)                                                D
so NRR-required
provisions and
intOrest
atmpens ion be tax
deductible.
Reduce risks to                              Monitor rural and
banks engaged In                             priority lending
rural and other                              aainst
priority lending                             collection nd
by agreneg to                                developmental
appropriate leVel                            perforemne
loan amount                                  Indicators.
based on prudent
practice. Banks
should have solo
*uthority to
approve or reject
loans; and be
able to utiliza
high tnterest
rates,
admintstrativs
fees, nd
guarantee.



ANNEX IV
Pge  1C e' 16
SAL U POLICT lUIX
Arose                Objective             SAL I Actione         Actual                SAL It Actione        SAL It Actlons        SAL II Actions To
Plannd                                     Taken                 Before Third          Be Monitored
Trench. Reloase
Liberal lzed moet                                                Fro remaining
interest rates.                                                 a1*initoured
lewing ratee
over time.
Imple_nt WWo
project to
establish
notional
fwlo dr ipw
accounting body**
leadership,                          %
fund Ing, enablI Ing
legielation, and
I nettutlonal
errengemante for
accounting
training; and
establis h and
take Initial
atops to enforce
nrational
standard. of
accounting *nd
awditing.



- 60 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 22
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Conable:
1.    Since our last communication with you in 1987 regarding Nepal's
development policy, we have taken steps to improve our macroeconomic
management, enhance agricultural productivity, liberalize industrial and trade
policies, improve the efficiency of the public sector, and improve
administration of development projects under the Structural Adjustment Program
supported by your SAL I.
2.    Concurrent with the implementation of these structural adjustment
measures, we launched a much needed program of meeting the basic needs
requirements of the people. The objective of the Basic Needs Program (BNP) is
for all Nepalese to attain a standard of living "commensurate to lead a life
with human dignity by Asian standards by year 2000' by increasing the
provision of goods and services in six areas: food, clothing, shelter,
health, education, and security. This program emphasizes the need for
production increases to be achieved principally by revitalizing agriculture
and private sector participation, thus making its premise broadly consistent
with the thrust of the structural adjustment process. His Majesty's
Government of Nepal (HMG) also considers appropriate decentralization of
decision making functions critical to the success of the BNP, especially in
the area of social service delivery, and management of community forests and
irrigation facilities.
3.    Our structural management effort has initially centered on reorienting
macroeconomic policies to strengthen fiscal and monetary management:
restraining public expenditures, especially recurrent expenditures and
increasing revenues through fiscal reforms. To increase efficiency in the
financial resources allocation, in addition, we liberalized most interest
rates in 1986, and more recently took measures to further limit recourse to
bank borrowing by the public sector and to increase flexibility of the macro-
financial system. These recent measures include: introduction of 91-day
treasury bill auctioning; adjustment of interest rates on HMG's overdraft
facility in the light of the auction result; and the planned introduction in
1989 of a 182-day treasury bill and one- to five-year government bonds to
widen the maturity spectrum of government securities. Also, to improve the
country's external position, we devalued the Nepalese rupee by 162 in 1988 and
took measures to liberalize the import regime.
4.    Second, to complement the stabilization measures, we introduced
structural reforms in the major productive sectors. In agriculture, major
fertilizer prices have been adjusted so as to minimize the price-induced
incentive for deflection of fertilizers to neighboring countries. In
addition, restrictions on private fertilizer dealers have been reduced,
resulting in a fivefold increase in the number of private dealers in FY88.
Seeds legislation has been improved to support healthy development of the
subsector with private participation. Furthermore, the country's agricultural



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 22
research fimctions have been streamlined in an effort to better meet the
substantial research need in Nepal. Finally, food grain marketing and
distribution have been improved through increased market orientation of the
Nepal Food Corporation such as abolition of both procurement levies and urban
consumer subsidies. In industry, HMG has liberalized trade and industrial
investment policies to provide producers with improved incentives for
production of exports and import substitutes. Sales tax and import tariff
structures have been simplified. In addition, under the Industrial Enterprise
Act of 1982 (with amendments), we eliminated sales and excise tax exemptions
for many industries.
5.    Third, we initiated a longer-term program to enhance efficiency in
managing the development process. Priority has been given to developing the
information base and systems for program budgeting, improving performance of
public enterprises, and scaling back activities where public sector
involvement was counter-productive, including taking the decision to privatize
certain public enterprises.
6.    We have had encouraging achievements through our structural adjustment
effort. GDP growth between FY86 and FY88 averaged 4.52 despite erratic
weather.  Both agriculture and industry benefited from the reforms.
Investment has stabilized at a relatively high level of 19-202 of GDP and
national savings increased from 112 in FY83 to 13X of GDP in FY88 primarily
through an increase in government revenues from 82 of GDP in FY83 to lZ in
FY88 as a result of fiscal reforms we introduced. The budget deficit
consequently decreased from 122 of GDP in FY83 to 82 in FY88, and net domestic
financing declined from 6 to 0.92 of GDP.  Nepal's balance of payments
performance also improved substantially; the current account deficit
(excluding aircraft purchases) has been about 72 of GDP compared with 92 in
the early 1980's. Commodity exports relative to GDP almost doubled between
FY83 and FY88, reaching 62 in 1988. In particular, non-traditional exports
rose sharply as a result of import liberalization that increased availability
of imported inputs. Carpet exporters especially benefited from placement of
raw wool under open general license (OGL). Coupled with increased private
remittances and aid inflows, this permitted reserves to rebound to 5 months of
coverage of imports at the end of FY88. As a result of sound fiscal measures
coupled with a tight credit policy, inflation declined from 162 in FY86 to 112
in FY88, a slightly higher figure than expected.
7.    As you are undoubtedly aware, Nepal's economy is currently in the throes
of serious economic dislocation as a consequence of a major discontinuity
since March, 1989 in our bilateral relations with India concerning trade and
transit. The flow of essential commodities has been severely disrupted and
the trade with India has been virtually cut off. Consequently, we expect the
economy this fiscal year to achieve real growth of little more than one or two
percentage points compared with as much as five percent real growth
anticipated prior to the current disruption. The prognosis for next year in
the absence of swift and decisive measures is even more dismal, with our
agricultural sector being especially vulnerable. Although precise estimates
are not yet available, we expect a significant drop-off in budgetary revenues



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 22
and export earnings. Please see the addendum prepared separately and approved
by Cabinet, that describes the current situation in more detail and our short-
term macroeconomic strategy that would mitigate the negative impact and help
us establish the basis for medium-term recovery. It also contains our
macroeconomic projection for the next fiscal year. You might note that we
have taken actions to lessen the immediate hardship on the Nepalese people
that include lowering fuelwood prices and electricity tariff. I would like to
assure you that we understand the macroeconomic and other implication of these
actions and will phase out these temporary measures as soon as the situation
stabilizes, in particular, when kerosene and diesel supplies are restored. We
anticipate that this should be possible by early FY90.
8.    Notwithstanding the considerable uncertainty surrounding the Nepalese
economy at this juncture, we have made every effort to come to grips with the
situation, first by gauging the severity of the anticipated impact, second by
introducing immediate measures aimed at mitigating the adverse impact to the
extent possible in ways that are fully consonant with the spirit of our
structural program, and third, by preparing for the eventuality of having to
make a transition to a new trade and payments regime on a timetable that is
considerably more accelerated than we had previously anticipated.
9.    We are now in the midst of restructuring our trade regime in accordance
with Most Favored Nation (MFN) principles. We expect that such a system will
continue to provide a basis for our adjustment efforts, in particular to
ensure more neutral treatment between India and third countries in our trade
relations and over time to expand our convertible currency earnings.
10.   HMG intends to maintain the successful reform momentum and continue to
address the country's structural and institutional weaknesses. In particular,
the policies for which we seek IDA's support focus on macroeconomic management
(fiscal revenues, development management, and trade policies), agriculture
(input distribution and irrigation), and the financial sector.
11.   We believe that sound macroeconomic management would provide the
requisite environment for carrying out further structural reforms. Drawing on
recent studies and experiences, we propose revenue measures that aim at
improving tax administration, broadening the tax base, and taking first steps
toward making the indirect tax systems more efficient. On expenditures, we
have successfully introduced program budgeting and project monitoring, with
the Ministry of Finance as the main institutional basis. We are now extending
the systems to line ministries and the Planning Commission. In addition, HMG
intends to establish more realistic and efficient expenditure programs and to
accelerate project implementation. These efforts should result in relatively
fewer and higher quality development projects th&t are more rapidly
implemented and in more adequate operation and maintenance provisions. On
trade policies, the focus will continue to be on deve.oping export-oriented
and efficient import-competing industries by restructuring the trade regime on
MFN principles and further liberalization.



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 22
12.   We place a high priority on agriculture, recognizing that accelerated
agricultural production is critically important for both increasing the
overall growth rate and raising the incomes of the poorer groups, also a major
objective ce the BNP. We have carried out reforms in fertilizer distribution,
seeds propagation, and research, and will now move on to the next generation
of reforms in improving the management of fertilizer stocks and further
liberalizing the fertilizer distribution system. In addition, we will
reorient our irrigation strategy in support of private sector initiatives.
13.   Finally, we believe that a healthy and vigorous financial system is
essential to complement other policy measures designed to achieve high rates
of agricultural and industrial growth. We have, therefore, added the
financial sector reform as a major priority area for the coming years.
PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
14. I would like to elaborate in more detail with regard to our intentions
for further structural adjustment under the headings of macroeconomic
management, agricultural reform, and financial sector reform.
Macroeconomic Manatement
15. HHG has made substantial progress in raising government revenues from 82
of GDP in FY84 to 10.5Z in FY88, and had intended to mobilize 11.32 of GDP in
FY89 and 11.72 in FY90. But the sudden and unexpected termination of the
trade and transit on March 23, 1989, has dislocated international trade. This
has severely affected the revenue collection, as a result of which the
projected revenue collection in PY89 will be 102 of GDP and 9.82 in FY90. We
recognize that our revenue elasticity is low, requiring us to rely on
frequently new and discretionary fiscal measures. The low elasticity is
attributable mainly to gaps in the tax base due to tax exemptions and tax
holidays, but there are also problems with tax administration. In addition,
we realize that inefficiencies arise because of a high dependence on trade-
related revenues, and the large dispersion in effective rates of protection.
We have recently simplified and improved import tariff and sales tax
structures, and eliminated many sales and excise tax exemptions. We will
continue this reform effort and implement further measures needed to improve
the tax system through improving tax administration, broadening the tax base,
and enhancing the efficiency of sales tax as a step toward future introduction
of indirect tax systems similar to VAT.
16.   Part of the reason for the problems in tax administration is that there
is high turnover of manpower in the revenue departments, as a result of which
the expertise is not fully utilized and developed. Realizing this, HMG
intends to establish a closed and unified Revente Service consisting of the
three departments (tax, customs, and excise), Revenue Administration Training
Center, and functional staff in revenue planning, audit, and administration,
which would offer a specialized career path for its employees. As a first
step, the Government is stopping personnel transfers into the Ministry of
Finance from outside and restricting the horizontal personnel mobility of



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 22
revenue department staff to within the three departments. These moves are
being accompanied by further measures to improve tax administration and
collections, such as increased use of regular field auditing, the extension of
training programs for the staff, tax assessors' audits, and strengthening of
the tax information base.
17. One of the problems with the tax base arises from the income tax
holidays granted to a wide range of new industrial enterprises. We-are,
therefore, planning to continue to reduce the number of corporations eligible
for tax holidays through annual revision of the list of subsectors ineligible
for the holidays. Another problem with the tax base is that agriculture is
largely untaxed. HKG is now encouraging local authorities to reintroduce the
Panchayat Development and Land Tax (PDLT), which is a proxy for an
agricultural income tax at the Panchayat level. Already 12 Village Panchayats
have started to collect PDLT. With regard to personal income tax, there is a
need to make the tax base more comprehensive by covering more individuals
under the tax net.
18. While recent changes in the structure of sales tax have considerably
simplified the tax structure, we see that further improvement in the
e-ficiency of the indirect tax systems will substantially benefit the economy.
We are, therefore, planning to improve the current indirect tax systems with a
view to the future introduction of indirect tax systems similar to VAT that
would facilitate reduction in the dispersion of effective rates of protection
and increased taxation of final rather than intermediate uses. We had
requested IMF for a technical assistance study and will implement initial
steps recommended by this study starting from FY90. In addition, we will
further convert specific excises on certain remaining commodities to ad
valorem tax by July 1989.
19. We also plan improvements to public expenditure management. We
recognize that a critical constraint to Nepal's development effort has been
the quality and slow pace of project implementation. There are several
reasons for this: insufficient efforts to establish the relative priority of
projects; weak monitoring and control of project implementation; delays in the
release of budgetary funds; and inadequate provisions for O&M expenditures.
To address these issues, we introduced in 1986 program budgeting and project
monitoring (PB/PM) within the Ministry of Finance. PB now covers nine sectors
or about 802 of the development budget, while PM will soon cover all of the
core projects. The PB/PM project started by establishing an institutional
base in the Ministry of Finance for making budget decisions in line with
development priorities and has raised awareness throughout HMG of the need for
a more orderly and reasonable process of allocating resources. Progress has
row reached the stage where its regular institutional base should be
istablished within the line ministries.
20. The follow-up stage of the PB/PM project is currently under preparation,
and efforts have already been started to build the institutional and technical
basis for preparing the FY90 budget, using the PB approach in line ministries
and agencies of nine sectors. At the same time, we are strengthening the



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of Z2
National Planning Commission, while yet another project to strengthen
accounting and auditing in the public sector is already underway. To guide
program budgeting activities in line ministries at the policy level and
coordinate them with other public expenditures management operations, HMG will
establish a high-level committee for policy guidance and implementation.
Furthermore, the PB group establishes appropriate O&M expenditures that should
be budgeted for major sectors; for FY90, the group has established such
figures and parameters to derive them for irrigation, power, transport, and
education, and the actually budgeted figures will be monitored and reviewed at
the time of the third tranche release. On Project Monitoring (PM), in
addition to the expansion in coverage mentioned above, we are in the process
of establishing a management information link among line ministries, the
District Treasury Offices, and central decision makers. Such a link will be
of considerable benefit for making accurate project monitoring and evaluation
and the expeditious release of budgetary funds.
21. The current concept of "core' projects, however, is not helpful in
determining fund release priority in case of resource shortfalls or in
encouraging faster implementation of high priority projects because the 'core'
consists of projects of good quality and non-core projects are candidates for
either redesign or elimination. Recognizing this, we identified projects
based largely on economic rate of return, within the core, a group of 35
projects of highest priority whose implementation will proceed as far as
availability of local currencies resources is concerned. Implementation of
these projects will be monitored closely by the PM group.
22. We have also improved the mechanism for releasing funds to development
projects; fund release is no longer jeopardized because of past unsanctioned
fund allocations ('irregularities'). Irregularities are to be reviewed by a
central committee and actions, if necessary, will be personnel-related rather
than halting project implementation by stopping fund release.
23.   To further improve the public sector resource management, HMG has
established a formal Resources Committee representing the Ministry of Finance,
the National Planning Commission, and the Nepal Rastra Bank. This committee
is to guide the budget preparation process by: (i) establishing a set of
resource estimates including foreign aid, which is consistent with GDP and
balance of payments projections; (ii) providing HMG with resource mobilization
recommendations; (iii) establishing spending guidelines by sector, for both
current and development expenditures according to efficiency criteria and
national development priorities, and line ministries will respect these
guidelines in their budget preparation; and (iv) revising the macroeconomic
projections and resource estimates and reviewing budget execution during the
fiscal year as a basis for mid-year budget reviews. The Resources Committee
will work towards expanding its analytical framework to permit multi-year
revenue and expenditure estimates (rolling budget). The Committee is already
active and has established total resource estimates and sectoral spending
guidelines for the FY90 budget.



- 66 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 22
24.   HMG has recently employed more export-oriented trade policies as its
past import licensing policies had limited effects in promoting industrial
development. Our objectives are to allow exporters to compete with foreign
producers on an equal footing and, to the extent possible, equalize incentives
between and within exporters and to producers of import substitutes while
maintaining efforts to minimize trade deflection. The new trade policies were
initiated under SAL I with the relaxation of quantitative restrictions and
increased reliance on a new, simplified system of tariffs and trade-related
taxes. We also introduced a passbook system for industrial imports, placed
several important raw materials under OGL, and established an auction system
for commercial import licenses. A duty-drawback system was introduced for
imported inputs for ready-made garments. In addition, the number of items
that are subject to industrial and export licensing was significantly reduced.
Improved access to raw wool imports by carpet producers under OGL resulted in
a surge in the carpet exports.
25.   We now plan to build on these initiatives and seek IDA support under
SAL II for future policy adjustments. First and foremost, we have
restructured our tariff system along MFN principles by instituting uniform
rates and in the process lowering the rates formerly applied to third
countries. Second, we will extend coverage of recent measures and improve
their implementation. In particular, items under the OGL and annual passbook
systems will be expanded to include intermediate inputs and capital equipment
and have been increased to 352 of third country non-aid imports for PY89 and
will go up to 502 in FY90. Refunding of duties started in the case of ready-
made garments as of January 1989. The duty-drawback system will be extended
to imported inputs of all export producers from FY90 with a significantly
simplified refunding process.   Furthermore, we have abolished the premium on
the imported raw wool and are committed to placing raw wool under full prior
exemption without the need for bank guarantees from July 1989. We will, in
addition, streaml#ne the procedures for import license auctioning from FY90
and increase the auctioned amount (NRs. 1.5 billion is expected to be
auctioned in FY89, more than a 502 increase from NRs. 930 million in FY88, and
a similar increase is envisaged for FY90). Third, since limited sector
information makes our derivation of medium to long-term policy alternatives
difficult, we seek support for our efforts to study the industrial sector's
comparative cost structure as well as ways to promote and diversify Nepal's
exports. These efforts should provide the necessary information for further
trade and industrial reforms.
Agricultural Reforms
26.   HHG's goal is to insure timely and adequate delivery of chemical
fertilizers to farmers to facilitate an increase in agricultural production.
We will, therefore, sustain and deepen recent efforts to liberalize fertilizer
distribution and to improve fertilizer pricing. At the same time, we have
decided to substantially increase the volume of supply and rationalize supply
management.



- 67 -
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 22
27.   On further liberalization of fertilizer distribution, we have formally
drafted dealership regulations that include the following reform measures.
First, we are removing limits on the number of private dealers per trading
area, and allowing private dealers to do business even in areas where sajhas
are functioning. Second, spatial restrictions on any dealer's business
activities will be lifted and dealers will be able to recover fully the
transport cost of fertilizers regardless of the distance involved. Finally,
to facilitate development of fertilizer wholesaling, all dealers including
sajhas will be able to appoint sub-dealers and be entitled to advance and bulk
purchase discounts as is normal in the wholesale business. To operationalize
these measures, AIC issued new dealership regulations in May 1989.
28.   HKG will continue the fertilizer pricing policy supported by SAL I,
i.e., retail prices net of transport cost should be as high as Indian retail
prices and we will try to monitor wholesale prices in India with a view to
bringing also Nepal's wholesale prices to parity with them. What is important
is that there be automaticity in price adjustments in response to movements in
Indian border prices, and in distribution and storage costs. To achieve this
goal, we have set prices of major fertilizer to at least parity with relevant
Indian border prices and AIC employs an automatic price adjustment mechanism
Whereby retial prices are set at or marginally above relevant Indian prices
automatically. We will continue this practice of flexibly adjusting retail
prices of fertilizers without delays, and apply a similar mechanism to
wholesale prices when reliable monitoring of wholesale prices in India becomes
possible.
29.   Furthermore, we have decided to increase the annual volume of fertilizer
imports and, as a first step, planned FY89 imports have been raised by about
5O02 over the FY88 level, and appropriate reserves will soon be established.
The increase in fertilizer supplies is accompanied by efforts to improve the
supply management and distribution systems. By improving planning and
procurement procedures we will be able to schedule fertilizer imports so that
fertilizers are available in time for the planting and growing seasons.
Forecasting and monitoring of demand and supply for each marketing zone will
be improved through a careful review of AIC's current stocks and storage and
transport facilities. AIC is also building its capability to monitor retail
prices, sales and inventories, and to estimate farmers' demand for each
trading zone. These supply management improvement projects, which will be
initiated by July 1989, will be carried out with technical assistance from ADB
and FAO.
30. We also plan to undertake a study to examine alternative medium-term
future strategies for increasing the efficiency of fertilizer distribution.
The study will address the appropriate roles of sajhas, AIC and private
dealers in the entire system of procurement, wholesale, retail, pricing and
subsidy administration. The level and fiscal implications of subsidies will
also be examined including the issue of whether the subsidies should best be
attached to unit prices or transport costs, or be administered through
alternative systems. The study will be commenced by July 1989, and be
completed within six months.



- 68 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 22
31.   Irrigation development is a prerequisite for any significant increase in
agricultural production. We have, therefore, reformulated our irrigation
development strategy and devised the specific actions below to reorient
institutions and policies. The strategy and actions are fully integrated into
DOI's new Sector Program.
32.   Our new irrigation strategy puts a focus for the medium term on
investments of short to medium gestation such as groundwater development,
especially shallow tubewells; completion and further improvement of ongoing
public sector irrigation projects; and the upgrading or new construction of
farmer-managed schemes. The common element in these is greater collaboration
between the Government and farmers in irrigation development and O&M. Through
more active farmer participation, we intend to increase the rate of irrigation
development and intensify the use of existing schemes. This strategy would
permit the Department of Irrigation (DOI) to focus scarce staff and financial
resources on activities that are beyond the capability of farmers such as
construction and O&M of headworks and main systems of larger projects.
Irrigation cost recovery will be facilitated by providing clear incentives for
organized water user organizations to assume direct responsibilities for
system operation and maintenance.
33.   Specific actions that have been initiated include:  establishing
mechanisms to provide the legal status to water user organizations; shifting
the DOI's orientation from construction of new large schemes to an increased
emphasis on the O&M of existing irrigation systems and cooperation with
farmers' organizations; handing over management and ownership of smail- and
medium-scale DOI schemes to farmers; promoting participatory management of
larger schemes; implementing innovative strategies for O&M cost recovery; and
improving coordination between irrigation and agricultural service agencies.
34.   Legal recognition of and protection for water user organizations are
preconditions for their active collaboration with the Government in irrigation
development and therefore critical to the effectiveness of DOI's sector
strategy. Nepal's Associations Act provides a ready vehicle for providing
farmer groups with legal status through registration with Chief District
Officers. HMG has issued instructions to DOI field staff and Chief District
Officers regarding simplified procedures for the registration of farmer water
user and irrigation associations under the above Act.
35.   To support the new irrigation strategy, we recognize that reorientation
of DOI towards O&M and cooperation with farmers is imperative. HMG,
therefore, will form a group within DOI which will handle DOI responsibilities
for farmer organization, legal establishment of farmer associations, cost
recovery and monitoring of O&M activities. The performance of this group will
be reviewed and based on this review, a draft action plan will be prepared by
March 1990 to establish an irrigation management unit during FY91. In order
to ensure that adequate resources are provided for O&M, HMG will design and
implement a regular process for site-specific estimation of resources requi_ead
for O&M, for preparing an annual budget request on this basis, and for regular



- 69 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 22
monitoring and assessment of the results of past year's O&M expenditures. In
addition, the FY90 budget will include sufficient allocations for O&M of DOI
schemes as well as a separate allocation for emergency repairs of these
schemes. Furthenmore, the Basic Needs Program targets which have been
formulated exclusively in terms of irrigated area expansion will be elaborated
to recognize the production impacts of increases in irrigation intensity
through improvements in existing facilities and services.
36. Furthermore, to reduce the overall O&M burden of DOI, HMG has decided to
withdraw public involvement from schemes that farmer groups can operate and
maintain on their own. We will, in this context, prepare a time bound action
plan and initiate pilot projects for the full turnover to farmer groups of
DOI-managed surface and groundwater schemes of less than 2,000 hectares in the
Terai and 500 hectares in the Hills, as well as all other schemes where
farmers have the capability of assuming full O&M responsibility. The draft
action plan has been prepared and is being finalized for implementation
beginning from FY90. There is already a pilot scheme that is being turned
over to farmers. By July 1989, we will start the process of turning over
several more schemes to farmers. We intend to complete turning over to farmer
groups those DOI schemes that are nominally considered as DOI-managed but are
already being operated and maintained by farmers themselves by September 1989.
Pilot projects to turn over other DOI schemes will be initiated in each of the
five development regions by March 1990.
37.   We recognize that irrigation cost recovery in Nepal needs to be
improved; not only are water charges set at levels insufficient to recover O&M
costs, but also actual collections are unsatisfactory. To tackle these
issues, HMG has established a Task Force on Water Charges. This Task Force
has formulated a draft action plan for implementation of specific improvements
in O&M cost recovery including setting appropriate future water rates that
fully cover government O&M costs and, if possible, a portion of investment
cost, and reflect the degree of farmers' labor and in-kind contributions for
O&M. The draft action plan is now being finalized after a tripartite review
by HMG, IDA, and ADB and will be implemented from July 1989. HMG, in this
regard, will also initiate pilot projects to test: (a) incentives to DOI
staff and managers for improvements in waterfeharge collections; (b) joint
DOI-farmer responsibility for O&M of large scheme; (c) retention of water
charge revenues for use in the O&M of the system where such revenues were
generated; and (d) incentives, such as water "wholesaling" for farmer groups
in DOI schemes that assume greater responsibility for O&M and fee collection.
38.   Coordination between the various agriculture service agencies needs to
be strengthened, particularly in irrigated areas where the potential for
increased production is greatest. HMG will, therefore, prepare and implement
a time-bound action plan to improve coordination at all levels between
irrigation and agricultural service agencies, including those involved in
input distribution and incorporate this plan in the FY90 budget. The plan
would include mechanisms for monitoring the improvements in coordination.



- 70 -
ANNEX V
Page 11 of 22
Financial Sector Reforms
39.   HMG realizes that the healthy financial sector is a prerequisite for
sound economic growth, and privatization of major commercial banks remains our
medium-term goal. Major lending institutions in Nepal, however, often
experience debt recovery and poor portfolio problems. Our major goal of
sector reforms at this initial stage is, therefore, to evaluate the precise
magnitude and nature of the sector's problems and start implementing
corrective actions. Currently, issues related to Agricultural Development
Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and Nepal Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC) are
addressed with assistance from ADB and IDA, respectively. Probably the most
pressing and so far unattended problems are those of Nepal Bank (NB) and
Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB) in the areas of management, financial performance,
portfolio quality, and liquidity management.
40. The first step will be to carry out an independent external study to
evaluate the banks' loan portfolios, and determine the causes of their
problems as well as to recommend corrective measures. We, in this context,
will undertake a Commercial Bank Problem Analysis and Strategy Study (CBPASS).
CBPASS is expected to start by July 31, 1989 and upon its completion, about
seven months later, necessary provisioning and capital replenishment will be
carried out based on its results. HMG will also start implementing corrective
measures according to the priority ranking recommended by CBPASS after its
completion. CBPASS will also define technical assistance needs of the
commercial banks in order to strengthen their management and high priority
technical assistance projects will be initiated as soon as feasible, given the
urgent nature of commercial bank problems.
41.   While CBPASS is being implemented, we will concentrate our effort to
improve debt recovery, in particular, of the two commercial banks. HMG will
establish a time-bound schedule to make current all government-guaranteed bank
loans that are overdue by FY92 and take action in FY90, FY91 and FY92
according to the schedule. We will also instruct public enterprises to bring
their loans current through payment or, where appropriate, rescheduling.
Starting from FY90, NRB will receive quarterly reports from the banks on the
status of all public enterprise and guaranteed loans. We have asked the two
commercial banks to prepare an action plan for improving debt recovery. This
plan should include the proposed organization and staffing for a debt recovery
unit, standard operating policies and procedures, debt recovery targets for
the next twelve months, implementation of a quarterly reporting system to
monitor debt collections, and information on overdue loans and the 50 largest
defaulters. Furthermore, we have established a centralized Credit Information
Bureau (CIB) to improve information on defaulters. Based on information
available at CIB, defaulters in one bank will be prevented from receiving
loans from banks who are members of the CIB.
42.   HMG also intends to improve the institutional environment:  (i) by
restructuring and strengthening the supervision and inspection functions of
NRB; and (ii) by strengthening regulations in the areas of asset



- 71 -
ANNEX V
Page 12 of 22
classification, provisioning and interest suspension, capital adequacy
guidelines, lending limits, and enforcement of actions. We have requested IMF
technical assistance on strengthening NRB's supervision functions together
with establishing CIB. On (ii) above, NRB had already issued directives
limiting a bank's exposure to one credit risk to 50? of its own funds and
parent company guarantees and at the same time specify a five-year schedule to
reduce the lending limit to 25Z. Existing bank loans that exceed this limit
will be brought under the limit within the next five years, according to the
schedule NRB has prepared. NRB will be empowered to grant a waiver to banks
to exceed the limit up to 50? conditional upon compliance with capital
adequacy requirement and the overall strength of the bank.
43.   To support the financial sector reforms, we have prepared a list of
legal amendments to the NRB, Commercial Banking, and NIDC Acts to increase
NRB's enforcement power. These proposed amendments will be submitted to the
next Rastriya Panchayat session in 1989. Similarly, income tar laws
amendments will be submitted during the next RP session so that provisions and
interest suspensions required by NRB be tax deductible. HMG will proceed with
proper caution in our efforts to raise bank lending to the poor and the
priority sectors, such as efforts in the lead bank scheme. In this regard, we
are also implementing a study to identify ways to increase the efficiency of
bank branches, and intend to implement its policy recommendations. Finally,
to strengthen the entire financial system and help maintain sound banking
practices, satisfactory standards of accounting and auditing will be adopted
and initial steps to enforce these standards will start in FY90.
OTHER MAJOR POLICY ISSUES
44.   HMG would like to seek IDA's direct support under the second Structural
Adjustment Credit for the broad policy directions mentioned above. However,
there are other areas that are also critical to Nepal's structural adjustment
and economic development. They include the public enterprise sector and
forestry/environment. HMG intends to continue its active dialogue with IDA in
these areas through IDA's assistance in more investment oriented projects or
technical assistance. On public enterprises, HMG's goals are to privatize
those enterprises in activities better served by the private sector and to
improve management of enterprises that are to remain in the public sector. In
order to expedite the process of privatization and also to improve the sales
price of enterprises to be privatized, we have requested UNDP/IFC technical
assistance to help us and thereafter implement a program of divestiture.
45.   In forestry/environment, HMG has and will continue to enhance incentives
of private individuals and local communities to maintain forest resources. In
this context, HMG has prepared a Forestry Masterplan which calls for
substantial increases in private and local contribution in the sector and the
implementation schedule for the Masterplan will be prepared in this calendar
year. Legal status of forest user groups will be assured and these groups
will be main bodies for managing the nation's large section of forests without
intervention from the Department of Forestry unless in case of proven
misconduct by user groups. In addition, the entire legal framework of the



- 72 -
ANNEX V
Page 13 of 22
forestry sector will be reviewed and revised to reflect the user group
emphasis in forest management. HMG is also preparing an investment project
with IDA for improving community forestry management in the Hills area. At
the same time, there are several studies recently carried out or ongoing on
the issues of natural resource base with a specific emphasis on sustainability
of the Hills environment, including the natural resource conservation study
and an ongoing HMG/IDA/ODA study on natural resource management. We hope to
draw upon these studies in continuing dialogue with IDA, in particular, on the
policy aspect of the forestry/environment issue.
46.   It is the belief of HMG that the policies set out above provide the
basis for a strong program of structural adjustment. We look forward to the
support of IDA and to working with you and your colleagues in the years ahead.
s'
Mr. Barber B. Conable                            Bharat Bahadur Pradhan
President                                        Minister of Finance
The World Bank                                   His Majesty's Government
1818 H Street N.W.                                 of Nepal
Washington, D.C. 20433



- 73 -
ANNEX V
Page 14 of 22
ADDENDUM ON DEV ELOMMEN  POLICY LETTZR2
REVISED ECONOMIC SCEKAEIO AND POLICY MEASURES
1.    Macro-economic performance during the first eight months of the current
fiscal year 1988/89 indicated that the economy was recording a strong growth
in output for the second consecutive year, coupled with a further deceleration
in the rate of inflation. The overall performance in the budgetary situation
was encouraging, with further improvements in the revenue to GDP ratio and a
consistent decline in the budgetary deficit. Regular expenditure during the
first eight months remained contained in spite of the fact that there was
substantial expenditure on relief and rehabilitation on account of the
earthquake which hit the country. Development expenditure was growing at a
rate that would have reached a level of Rs. 11 billion. The performance in
the monetary and credit sector was equally impressive, with the money supply
and the volume of credit growing at a rate lower than targeted. On the
external front, the export sector continued to maintain a growth rate
exceeding 25 percent in the second consecutive year. However, merchandise
imports rccorded a higher rate of growth, reflecting in part liberalization
policy of the government and in part a strengthening of investment activity
resulting in a growth in personal disposable income. This has widened
substantially the trade and current account deficits. However, because of
large increase in official and other capital inflows, the external current
account deficit did not pose any difficulties. Indeed, the overall balance of
payments showed a positive trend and international reserves registered some
increase.
2.    Gross domestic product in 1988189 was estimated to record a real growth
of about 5.3 percent, reflecting on the one hand an effect of a growing
economic activity due to adoption of liberal policy in distribution of
agricultural inputs and trade and industrial policy, and on the other hand,
growth in agricultural production due to a favorable monsoon. Agriculture GDP
was estimated to grow by about 6.2 percent in real term and that of non-
agriculture GDP by about 4 percent. Per capita GDP was estimated to reach
Rs. 4292 in nominal terms from Rs. 3872 in 1987/88. Gross national savings
and investments were estimated to reach about 11.7 percent and 21.1 percent of
GDP, respectively. The annual average inflation rate was estimated to drop by
about 3 percentage points from 11 percent in 1987/88 to 8.1 percent in
1988189. On the budgetary front, government revenue was estimated to reach
11.3 percent of GDP, up from 10.7 percent in 1987/88. Similarly, development
expenditure was estimated to reach about 14.2 percent of GDP, up from 13
percent of GDP in 1987188. Based on eight-month figures, a significant
improvement in the foreign aid utilization was projected in the current fiscal
year. Compared to last year, budgetary deficit shows further improvements
1 This position paper has been prepared by the Government of Nepal as an
addendum to the Letter of Development Policy, and has been discussed at
Cabinet.



- 7L -*
ANNEX V
Page 15 of 22
during the first eignt months ot the current fiscal year and it was estimated
to remain at about Rs. 1120 million, or 1.5 percent of CDP by the 'ear end.
The lower than estimated HMG borrowings from the banking system coupled with
targeted level of borrowings by public enterprises and'a substantial increase
in deposits mobilization were expected to offset the pressure in the money
supply due to increase in foreign exchange reserves and private credit flows.
Growth in the money supply was therefore estimated to remain about 13.6
percent and that of net domestic assets (NDA) about :L7.1 percent. On the
external front, merchandise exports were estimated to exceed Rs. 5 billion
mark this year and merchandise imports to reach a level of about Rs. 15.5
billion (including aircraft purchase worth Rs. 1.2 billion). Trade and
current account deficits were thus estimated to widen sharply; however,
significant improvempnt in foreign aid utilization and an increase in capital
inflows were expected to contribute more than what was required to offset
these deficits. The overall balance of payments was thus expected to register
a surplus of about Rs. 1850 million, leading to an increase in the foreign
exchange reserves sufficient enough for 6.5 months' import requirements,
including imports of services and transfer payments.
3.    The economic situation and prospect of the country, however, have
changed dramatically over the last few weeks as a result of the deadlock in
trade and transit arrangements with India. The interruption of normal trade
flows has brought about acute shortages of essential commodities causing
considerable hardship to the people and major disruption in industry, domestic
transportation, construction, mining and quarrying, financial sector and other
important areas of economic activity. The contraction in the supply of energy
sources, such as POL products, particularly diesel, coal, and furnace oil,
forced industries to operate at low cap2city or close down. It has also
affected private as well as public construction activities. Most seriously
affected is the transportation sector with consequent impact on almost all
sectors. The effect of all these are impinging on employment. In short, an
economic recession has already started.
4.    The continuation of the situation is projected to affect the economy
significantly this year. The major effect will, however, be felt by the
economy next year and it will take quite a few years to adjust the economy.
The extreme shortages in POL products and coal and the constriction in transit
coupled with a virtual blockade in exports from its traditionally close and
major trading partner are projected to drop sharply the economic activity in
the non-agricultural sector during the remaining period of this fiscal year.
As a result, non-agriculture GDP this year is projected to record a negative
growth of about 4.5 percent. With the harvesting of two major corps already
accomplished, the agriculture sector will be affected relatively less this
year. It is projected to record 6 percent growth. Thus overall GDP this year
is projected to grow by 1.6 percent in real terms, a drop of 3.7 percentage
points as compared to initial estimates. Similarly, per capita GDP is
projected to drop to Rs. 1541 in real terms from Rs. 1556 in 1987188. Gross
domestic investment is projected to drop to 19.1 percent of GDP from 20.8
percent in 1987188 and from the initial estimate of 21.1 peroent for the
current year. The drop was particularly due to a fall in public sector



- 75 -
ANNEX V
Page 16 of 22
investment equivalent to about 1.2 percent of GDP and a moderate fall in
private sector investments. Similarly, gross national savings is projected to
fall by 2.3 percentage points to 9.4 percent of GDP from 11.7 percent
estimated earlier. The fall in national savings was particularly due to
shrinkage in the economic activity and a drop in the factor and non-factor
services receipts in the external sector. The two parallel prices prevailing
at the market ixmmediately after the stalemate make it difficult to estimate
the impact on the inflation rate. However, the increase in recorded price is
projected to average at about 9.6 percent by the year end. But the parallel
market price, which is much higher than the official price, is projected to
increase the overall inflatian rate by at least 3 percentage points on the
average. Government revenue is projected to drop to about 10 percent of GDP
from an initial estimate of 11.3 percent, meaning in absolute term a drop in
revenue by Rs. 1245 wi.llion as compared to the original estimate. Regular
expenditure is projectid to increase marginally due to increase in subsidy and
other non-budgetary exp-nditures that occurred after the expiry of the Treaty.
However, development expenditure is projected to drop sharply to 12 percent of
GDP from 14.2 percent estimated earlier. In absolute term, development
expenditure is projected to increase only marginally in nominal terms to
Rs. 9066 million this year from Rs. 8889 million last year. The significant
drop in development expenditures, particularly the domestic components
however, will not be enough to offset the drop in revenue collection and as a
result budgetary deficit is projected to increase to about Rs. 2 billion or
2.7 percent of GDP by the year end, as compared to 1.5 percent of GDP as
estimated earlier. Similarly, the continuation of the situation is projected
to affect export as well as imports sharply. Merchandise export is projected
to drop by about Rs. 1 billion and that of imports by about Rs. 1.2 billion.
Thus, although the trade deficit will decrease marginally, the drop in factor
and non-factor services receipts as well as the drop in transfer earnings, due
mainly to a fall in tourism earnings and transfer receipts, will widen the
current account balance further and as a result the surplus in the balance of
payments will drop significantly by Rs. 1.2 billion from its earlier estimate.
balance of payments will thus show a surplus, albeit at a lower level.
Foreign exchange reserve will therefore fall to a level equivalent to less
than 6 months' imports of goods and services, from 6.5 months equivalent
estimated earlier. Similarly, growth in money supply is projected at 16.5
percent and that of net domestic assets (NDA) at 23.3 percent, higher by 2.9
percent and 6.2 percent respectively from its earlier estimates.
5.    The Trade and Transit deadlock is projected to cost the economy
equivalent to more than Rs. 2 billion in terms of overall output loss,
estimated on value added basis for this year alone. In the government budget
the loss will be in terms of short fall in revenue collection, fall in
development expenditures and a rise in subsidies as well as an increase in
debt servicing.
6.    As noted earlier, the prospect for the next year is more alarming.  The
crucial factor is the supply of fuel, POL products in particular. Assuming
the supply of fuel at 60 percent of its normal supply, GDP will record a
negative growth of about 0.6 percent. Investment as well as savings are



- 76 -
ANNEX V
Page 17 of 22
projected to recover slowly but still lower than the present level. Inflation
will again go up to double digit figures, aggravating the hardship of the
people, already victims to low real disposable income. Government revenue is
projected to fall further to about 9 percent of GDP. This will greatly
constrain domestic financing in the next year's programme. Merchandise export
is projected to fall further by another Rs. 1 billion in the next year.
Similarly, imports are projected to slow down, particularly due to low
purchasing capacity, constraints in transit points, and the lead time required
to adjust.  Receipts from factor and non-factor services are projected to
decline further, compounded by a likely capital outflow from the country,
resulting thereby into a deficit in the overall balance of payments. Balance
of payments is thus projected to record a deficit of about Rs. 690 million.
This will result into a draw-down in the foreign exchange reserves. By the
year end, foreign exchange reserves will just be equivalent to less than 5
months import requirements. Thus the scenario for the next year is very
bleak.
POLICY MEASURES
In order to minimize the damage to the economy, HMG has taken immediate
measures that include incentives for export diversification and reduction in
export taxes, further liberalization in imports through such measures as the
extension of the list of items under OGL, more auctioning of import licenses,
and unification in tariff through reduction in additional duty on tnird
country imports, etc.
Actions were also taken to contain budgetary deficit through cuts in
expenditures and other austerity measures. However, efforts were being made
to ensure disbursements in the core development projects. Measures are taken
to offset possible fall in the producer prices of wheat and oilseeds,
particularly due to a fall in demand caused by sudden imposition of an
exorbitantly higher tariff on imports in India on Nepalese products.
His Majesty's Government has recently announced its 22-point economic
measures to combat the situation. The main objective of these measures are to
minimize the negative effect on the overall economy, caused by the trade and
transit aeadlock and to maintain the economy in its growth path. The strength
of the economy now c'learly lies on its foreign exchange reserves, which are
now comfortable enough for about six months' equivalent of import
requirements. These measures consist of long-term, medium-term and short-term
measures. His Majesty's Government has already implemented some of the short-
term measures and the budget for the next fiscal year will be developed on the
basis of this 22-point economic program. This 22-point economic program is
meant to normalize the life-style of the people to the extent possible by
making arrangement for the minimum, essential goods and services required by
the people and to minimize, to the extent possible, the adverse affects
already faced by the economy and development process or those which could be
faced in future.



- 77 -
ANNEX V
Page 18 of 22
1.    Special efforts will be directed towards self-sufficiency by producing
essential goods of daily consumption and the industrial raw materials
within the country.
2.    Arrangements will be made to provide agricultural inputs in time and in
adequate quantities to ensure that the production of foodgrains and
other crops is not affected adversely due to the shortage of the
fertilizers, seeds and pesticides required for the crops and to maintain
the production level of this year in the forthcoming years. Necessary
arrangements for fuel required for the operation of equipment like
pumps, tubewells, and machinery equipment like tractors will be made.
3.    Immediate arrangements will be made for the purchase of products like
mustard and wheat which are already in the market to ensure that there
is no unjust fall in the market price of the same. Arrangements will
also be made to provide remunerative prices to the farmers for their
products in the future.
4.    The private sector will be encouraged to construct and operate cold
storages of required capacity in all the five development regions of the
country for the storage of fruits and vegetables.
5.    The private sector will be encouraged to make arrangements for fuel like
furnace oil, diesel, and coal and to import essential raw materials and
required spare parts from third countries to maintain the appropriate
level of production by industries producing essential goods. For these,
facilities like import simplification and open general license will be
provided.
6.    For the supply of petroleum products, various sources will be
identified. Arrangements for the supply will be made from more than one
source. Provisions for sufficient reserves will be made to avoid the
difficulties faced in the supply of petroleum products.
7.    Emphasis will be given to increased facilities for public transportation
and transportation of goods. Priority will he given to make necessary
fuel available. Private sector will also be encouraged for this
purpose.
8.    Some immediate and long-term measures will be taken in transportation
arrangements to reduce the requirement of imported fuel. For this, the
present capacity of the existing Hetauda-Yithmandu Ropeway will be fully
utilized. Programs will be implemented. Emphasis will be laid on
introducing the ropeways in other parts oi the Kingdom on the basis of
feasibility.
Trolley bus service extension programs will be formulated and
implemented in verious places of the Kathmandu Valley. Opportunities
will be provided for joint investment by Nepalese and foreigners or the
private sectors will be provided with the opportunities to invest in



- 78 -
ANNEX V
Page 19 of 22
this sector if they are interested. Planned efforts will be made
towards establishing electric railways in busy places. The investment
in it will be kept open for the government sector, private sector, or
the Nepalese and foreign joint investment.
9.    An extensive afforestation program and the programs to control soil
erosion and river control will be launched in the form of a campaign to
meet the immediate and long-term requirement of firewood and to minimize
the adverse effects on the environment.
10.   In view of the need to economize the use of fuel, arrangements will be
made to provide fuel efficient ovens, bio-gas and other efficient
equipment to economize fuel in cooking and other household works.
11.   The supply and daily distribution system will be made effective to
ensure that there is no scarcity of essential consumer goods.
Import will be made simple for essential goods of daily requirement.
While issuing the import license, attention will be given not to
adversely affect the local production.
12.   The most essential consumer items will be transported to the Far Western
Development Region before the monsoon and arrangements for the storage
will be made.
13.   Procedures will be improved and the export of Nepalese goods will be
encouraged in a manner that the exporters are benefited. For the
promotion of exports studies and publicity work through the Trade
Promotior Centre, the Royal Nepalese Consulates will be carried out
about the possibilities for exports in different countries. For this
the chamber of commerce and industries and the chamber of commerce will
be involved.
14.   Labour intensive techniques will be encouraged in the development
projects to the possible extent to minimize the adverse effects on the
employment and source of income and increase the purchasing power of the
people, the Food for Work Program will be expanded and skill-oriented
trainings will be extensively launched. Cottage industries, small
farmers development programs, and lead banking will be expanded for
self-employment.
15.  As the tourism industry is an important source of foreign exchange
earnings, necessary materials and facilities will be provided on the
priority basis for the development and promotion of the sector.
Publicity will be stepped up through the Royal Nepalese Embassies, Royal
Nepalese Consulates, and honorary consulates for the promotion of
tourism. Organizations and agencies engaged in tourism will be
encouraged and their cooperation will be sought.



- 79 -
ANNEX V
Page 20 of 22
16.   Encouragement will be provided for the development and production of
scientific, literary and artistic magazines and audio-visual materials
in the country for the development of the communications media as the
same played special role in the process of economic and social
development.
17.   In order to reduce the tendency of going abroad for treatment,
encouragement will be provided for operating standard hospitals in the
private sector through investment by the Nepalese or through foreign and
Nepalese join;. investment or foreign investment and management.
18.   Establishment and operation of good schools in the Kingdom through
private sector investment with Nepalese and foreign joint investment and
management will be encouraged to reduce the tendency to go to foreign
schools for study.
19.   The tendency to concentrate the development projects in areas where
facilities already exist will be discouraged and the projects will be
extended to backward areas with less facilities on a priority basis in
order to achieve regional balance.
20.  While formulating the budget for the fiscal year 2046-47, priority will
be given for the arrangement of budgeted funds and con-struction
materials for speedy implementation of import substitution and export
promotion industries, and ongoing development projects related with
power generation, development of alternate sources of energy, irrigation
projects and priority highways besides supply, storage, and security
aspects.
21.   Keeping the current situation in view, strict financial discipline and
austerity measures have to be followed to in the expense of the
government and semi-governmental units. The following steps will be
taken immediately:
a)    Administrative expense will be curtailed and the purchase of
furniture and vehicles will be stopped immediately.
b)    No expense will be made in the purchase of land and the
construction of buildings except when it is very necessary.
c)    Use of vehicles in the government and government-owned bodies will
be limited to a minimum level and no government or government-
owned body will import vehicles fo- the next five years and, if it
is very necessary to import, prior permission has to be obtained
from the Council of Ministers.
d)    Foreign visits and receptions at the expense of the government and
government-owned organizations will be controlled.



- 80 -
ANNE V
Page 21 of 22
e)    Priority will be given to adjust the employees in new offices or
projects from offices having excess employees.
f)    Investment in unproductive sectors will be reduced and it will be
increased in the productive sectors.
g)    Projects which can not be completed even in a long period of time
or are not likely to yield expected returns will be suspended.
22.   It will be seen whether austerity measures introduced under the Social
Reform Act and rules to control unnecessary expenses in social
gatherings and functions are strictly followed to or not. Cooperation
of the local panchayats, social institutions, and class organizations
will be sought in this connection. Dignitaries and distinguished
persons in the society are expected to set examples in such matters.



- 81 -
ANNEX V
Page 22 of 22
NEPAL: PRESENT ECONOMIC SITUATION AND PROCESS
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--
1988/89
Heads                         1987/88  -----------------------
Rev. Est.   Normal    Revised    1989/90
Estimate   Estimate
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--
Real GDP growth (Z)                     7.10       5.30       1.60        .10
- Agriculture (Z)                      8.70       6.20          6        .50
- Non-Agriculture (2)                    5           4      -4.50       -.60
Per capita GDP (Nominal Rs.) *          3872    4291.67   4160.04   4697.35
Per capita GDP Real Rs.) *              1556    1596.85   1540.74   1503.20
Gross National Savings/GDP (X)         12.40      11.70       9.40      11.40
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP (2)      20.80      21.10      19.10      20.40
- Public                               9.30       8.70       7.50       8.20
- Private                             10.50      11.40      10.60      11.20
- Change in stocks                     1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00
Inflation rate (X)                     11.00       8.10       9.60      11.00
Government revenue (Million Rs.)     7290.40    8765.00   7519.90   8300.00
Government revenue/GDP (2)             10.70      11.31       9.99      10.02
Gross regular expenditure (M Rs.)Q   4678.10    5764.80   5850.00   6750.00
Gross development expend. (M Rs.)E 1! 8888.80   11040.00    9560.00  12100.00
Budgetary deficit (Million Rs.)@      808.20    1124.30   1650.00   1350.00
Budgetary deficit/GDP (2)               1.19       1.45       2.19       1.63
Export (Million Rs.)                 4094.30    5025.00   4022.00   3450.00
Import (Million Rs.)                13972.10   15560.00  14400.00  15750.00
Overall Balance of Payments(M Rs)    2280.60    1850.00    660.00   -691.00
Growth in money supply (2)             17.90      13.60      16.50      14.20
Growth in Net Domestic Assets (Z)       9.70      17.10      23.30      21.80
Foreign exchange reserves (M Rs)     7420.00    9750.00   8308.00
Foreign exchange reserve in
terms of months of imports **           5.67       6.54       6.08
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--
* Assuming population growth rate as 2.62. 0 Excluding arrears payments.
** Including services and transfer payments.
GDP Estimate (Nominal Million Rs)   68145.00   77497.22  75258.79  82867.46
Deflator (X)                                          8       8.70         10
11 Current estimates of gross development expendi ures have been increased subsequent
to negotiations. These figures are still undergoing revisions.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 10154R2
APRIL 1983
:~t      v   N          -      en e' no   __ w f ow                  _ G E O P H Y S ICA L                           PAKIS TAN/
-30                                                                                                                                                 3          a d t2 
The ennbao dentebfoesfln fed -t ELEVATION IN METERS:2
0~                                                   '                                                      i   .Abo.e. 4,000                               I NDI        A '
Below 1,000                                                    LOB2
AL Mountain peaks~~~~~~~~~~~~un. 
<-'-Il_trnational boundaries 
'bHOOY3   >
E7   A I=                                            O }    Wit. 1 r    p                   f           A          a  2X '
O       40  40  80  00  120  140 J0
0,    2O0    40       60     80    100                                                                                                                                            Pa1ag-
se.                   82-                                           8?                     B? B2                   C                                              J



