Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2046 NEP
               (Second Structural Adjustment Credit)
                              between
                         KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 21, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2046 NEP
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1989,  between the KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
May 29, 1989, from the  Borrower  describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed  to achieve structural adjustment
of  the  Borrower's  economy  (hereinafter  called  the  Program),
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program, and requesting  assistance  from  the  Association in the
financing  of  urgently   needed   imports  required  during  such
execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter  alia,  of  the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided  in  support  of  the  Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by  making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section  1.01.   The   "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development  Credit   Agreements"   of   the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with  the  modifications  thereof set forth below
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities
          that may be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Credit
          pursuant  to  the  provisions   of  Schedule  1  to  the
          Development Credit Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the  Borrower  and  the Association, the
          Borrower shall prepare and  furnish to the Association a
          report,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the
          Association shall reasonably  request,  on the execution
          of the  Program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the
          Development Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
          Borrower  and  the   Association   of  their  respective
          obligations under the  Development  Credit Agreement and
          the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means  the  Standard  International Trade Classi-
fication, Revision  3  (SITC,  Rev.  3),  published  by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
     (b)  "Nepale Rupees"  and  "NRS"  mean  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Nepal Rastra Bank"  means  the  Borrower's Central Bank
established and operating pursuant  to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra
Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (e)  "NIDC"   means   the    Nepal   Industrial   Development
Corporation, a corporation  established  and operating pursuant to
the Nepal Industrial Development  Corporation Act, 2016 (1959), as
amended to the date of this Agreement; and
     (f)  "Financial Coordinating  Committee"  means the committee
established by the Borrower  on  May  8,  1987, entrusted with the
overall  responsibility  for  the  preparation  and  submission of
withdrawal  applications  under  the  Credit,  and  comprising  of
representatives from the  Foreign  Aid  Division of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance and from the Nepal Rastra Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  forty-six  million  two  hundred  thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 46,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Nepal Rastra
Bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1991 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on October and April in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual  installments  payable   on   each  October  and  April
commencing October  15,  1999  and  ending  April  15,  2029. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on April 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
Page  4
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. (a)  The  Nepal  Rastra  Bank  is designated as
representative of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts the Financial Coordinating Committee with
responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  withdrawal applications
under the Credit and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished  to  the  Association  in support of such
applications; such  withdrawal  applications  shall  to the extent
practicable be  consolidated  so  as  to  apply  for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $20,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
Page  5
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably   request,    including    without   any
               limitation  to  the  foregoing,  unaudited  Project
               accounts and financial  statements  for each fiscal
               year,   certified   as   to   their   accuracy  and
               authenticity by  an  independent auditor acceptable
               to the Association, as  soon  as available, but not
               later than six months  after  the  end of each such
               year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain,  until  at   least   one   year  after  the
               Association has received  the  audit report for the
               fiscal year in which  the  last withdrawal from the
               Credit Account  was  made,  all records (contracts,
               orders,  invoices,   bills,   receipts   and  other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.09 (a) of this
Agreement, the Secretary, Ministry  of  Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  6
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          His Majesty's Government
          Kathmandu,
          Nepal
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ARTHA                            2249 NP
               Kathmandu, Nepal
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   KINGDOM OF NEPAL
                   By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of  the  Credit  may  be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in  respect  of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC,  as designated by the Association by
Page  7
notice to the Borrower:
     Group      Sub-group               Description of Items
      112          -                    Alcoholic beverages
      121          -                    Tobacco,   unmanufactured,
                                        tobacco refuse
      122          -                    Tobacco,      manufactured
                                        (whether or not containing
                                        tobacco substitutes)
      525          -                    Radioactive and associated
                                        materials
      667          -                    Pearls, precious and semi-
                                        precious  stones, unworked
                                        or worked
      718          718.7                Nuclear    reactors,   and
                                        parts     thereof,    fuel
                                        elements     (cartridges),
                                        non-irradiated for nuclear
                                        reactors
     Group      Sub-group               Description of Items
      897          897.3                Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                        platinum    group   metals
                                        (except watches  and watch
                                        cases) and  goldsmiths' or
                                        silversmiths'        wares
                                        (including set gems)
      971          -                    Gold,         non-monetary
                                        (excluding  gold  ores and
                                        concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $12,000,000, may be made on account of
payments made for  such  expenditures  before  that date but after
February 15, 1989;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance; and
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   (a)  No withdrawal shall be  made  and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and  the  total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the  equivalent  of  SDR 15,400,000, unless the
Association shall be  satisfied,  after  an  exchange  of views as
described in Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement  based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association, with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program.
Page  8
(b)  No further withdrawal or  commitment shall be made after
such   aggregate   shall   have    reached   the   equivalent   of
SDR 30,800,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after a
further such exchange of  views  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Association: (i)  with  the  further  progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying  out  of  the  Program; and (ii) that the
actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved  progress   and   taken   actions   satisfactory  to  the
Association, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $1,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
Page  9
such contract, two  conformed  copies  of  such contract, together
with the analysis of  the  respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of  the  advertising and tendering procedures
followed and  such  other  information  as  the  Association shall
reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule,  the  Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Association,
prior to the submission to  the  Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of  funds  from  the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to  support  withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 or paragraph
4 of this Schedule, as the case  may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the  evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Adoption  of  a  budget  for  fiscal  year  1990  which shall
include:
     (a)  new   revenue    mobilization    and   enhanced   fiscal
administrative   measures    to    raise    revenues    of   about
NRS 300,000,000;
     (b)  domestic financing not to exceed NRS 1,400,000,000; and
     (c)  allocations,  satisfactory   to   the  Association,  for
operation  and  maintenance   expenditures,  for  the  irrigation,
transport, power and education public sectors.
2.   Adopt a schedule of payments  for the Borrower's Fiscal Years
1990, 1991 and  1992,  satisfactory  to  the  Association, to make
current during the  Borrower's  Fiscal  Year  1992 all government-
guaranteed commercial bank loans made  to public enterprises as of
July 15, 1989, which loans are overdue by at least six months, and
make actual payments of  the  amounts corresponding to Fiscal Year
1990.
3.   Taking  satisfactory  actions   to   allow   for  income  tax
deductions of provisions for bad debts and suspended interest made
by commercial banks and other financial institutions.
4.   Taking satisfactory actions to  enable  the Nepal Rastra Bank
to exercise a supervisory role over  NIDC pursuant to Section 23 A
of the Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2012 (1955).
5.   Take  satisfactory  action  to  strengthen  and  improve  the
financial and economic  performance  of  the Rastriya Banijya Bank
and the Nepal Bank  Limited,  including  provisions for bad debts,
recapitalization and debt  recovery  targets,  satisfactory to the
Association.
6.   Adopt procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for import
license auctioning.
Page  10
7.   Adopt a simplified duty  drawback  system for import of goods
required in the manufacturing of exportable goods, satisfactory to
the Association.
8.   Satisfactory progress on the implementation of the Borrower's
irrigation development strategy including:
     (a)  adoption of an  action  plan and time-table satisfactory
to  the  Association,  to  establish  and  thereafter  maintain an
irrigation management division within the Department of Irrigation
of the Borrower's Ministry of Water Resources;
     (b)  increase emphasis on  the  operation  and maintenance of
existing  publicly  managed  irrigation  schemes,  inter  alia, by
providing adequate  budgetary  allocations  and promoting farmers'
participation;
     (c)  handing over to farmers  of  management and ownership of
small-and medium-scale publicly managed irrigation schemes; and
     (d)  establishment of improved  mechanisms  for full recovery
of  operation  and  maintenance  costs  and,  taking  into account
farmers' payment capacity, a  portion  of investment costs, in all
government-managed irrigation schemes,  and  adoption of an action
plan and time-table  satisfactory  to  the  Association, for their
implementation.
9.   Adopt an  action  plan  and  time-table  satisfactory  to the
Association for the  gradual  elimination  of the five-year income
tax exemption provided for in sub-paragraphs (b) (1), (b) (2), and
(b) (3) of Section 10 of the Borrower's Industrial Enterprise Act,
2038 (1982).
10.  Take all such actions  as  shall  be  necessary to expand the
list of imports in the OGL/Passbook System so as to cover at least
50% of non-aid Third-Country imports.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of  goods required for the Program
and to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Credit allocated in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $13,500,000 to be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
Page  11
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               the Special  Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
               shall have requested and  as  shall have been shown
               by said documents and  other  evidence to have been
               made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the  Program  shall  equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of  the  Authorized  Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit shall  follow  such  procedures  as  the  Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule;  and  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
Page  12
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
