Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3769VSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 12.9 MILLION (US$13.5 MILLION) CREDI1
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
April 10, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)  =    100 cents
US$1.00 =
Up to June 30, 1981            So.Sh. 6.295
July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1982          =    A dual exchange rate with:
So.Sh. 6.295 (for essential imports)
So.Sh. 12.590 (for all other foreign
transactions)
July 1, 1982             =    So.Sh. 15.227 (for all transactions)
October 24, 1983               So.Sh. 17.58  (for all transactions)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
DANIDA     -    Danish International Development Agency
GOS        -    Government of Somalia
GRP        -    Glass Reinforced Plastic
SDB        -    Somali Development Bank
SIDA       -    Swedish International Development Authority
UNCDF      -    United Nations Capital Development Fund
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
S O M A L I A
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:         North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise
Amount:               SDR 12.9 million (US$13.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Co-financing:        US$3.5 million equivalent loan from Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development, in Kuwait, on concessionary terms
and conditions to be determined.
Onlending
Terms:               1.  The Government would onlend the proceeds of the credit
to the North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise at a rate of
interest of 12 percent per annum, with a repayment period
and/or conversion to equity to be determined following the
completion of a future financing plan based on the outcome
of the exploration/pilot project.
2. The North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise would onlend
about $600,000 of the proceeds of the Credit to individual
fishermen, at a rate of interest of 12 percent per annum,
with repayment over 11 years, including a grace period of
one year.
Project              Objectives:
Description:
The Project is designed to (i) test critical assumptions for
the development of the artisanal fisheries in the Project
area; (ii) determine the feasibility and financial viability
of offshore commercial availability of a variety of pelagic
species in the northern Somali waters; and (iii) develop an
institutional framework for long-term public and private
sector activities in fishing through the operation of an
autonomous enterprise.
Components:
(a) Inshore Artisanal Fisheries. Development of fisheries
facilities at Bolimog, Habo, Bossaso, and Candala;
(b) Offshore Commercial Fisheries. Pilot/exploratory test
program of purse seine fishing, including the charter of two
purse seine vessels, and operation of a support vessel.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(c) Technical Assistance. Assistance to the management of
the North East Coast Fisheries Company; Design of an
institutional training program for the fisheries sector;
and Studies for a future project involving harbor and
fisheries facilities.
Benefits:
A substantial start would be made in laying the foundation for future
commercial development of the Somali fishing industry in its northern waters, by
gathering more information on the resources, technical and logistical
parameters, and reducing the risk for future commercial investments.
Inshore: In advance of data and lessons drawn from the pilot project,
the most likely projections for the North Coast would postulate a small
expansion in fish production from about 100-200 tons a year to about 1,600 tons
by the end of the third year.
Offshore: Assuming a successful offshore pilot project phase,
considerable possibilities exist for a fuller commercial exploitation of the
fish resources. The catch from a fleet of purse seiners would enable
considerable investments to be made in harbor development and processing
facilities, leading to significant export earnings, a profitable enterprise and
attractive returns.
Risks:
The remoteness of the project area, hostile physical environment, lack
of basic facilities and problems of operating during periods of extreme heat,
present a challenge for the development of a successful fishing industry. To
assist in overcoming these risks, additional support vessels, radio communi-
cation, charter planes, and the control center at Bolimog have been included in
the project, together with increased technical assistance, to compensate for the
lack of trained manpower within the area and in the fisheries subsector.
The risk that the proposed project will be unable to develop and test
the assumptions required for the future development within the specified
timeframe is partly mitigated by the fact that the Fisheries Enterprise has
already been established, the General Manager is in post, and the contract for
the pilot/exploratory test fishing program has been let.



- iii -
Total Project Cost:
US$ Million
Local      Foreign      Total
Inshore Fisheries                            0.9         4.5          5.4
Offshore Fisheries                           0.1          5.7         5.8
Fisheries Enterprise                         0.2          0.5         0.7
Technical Assistance
and Training                               0.5         4.3          4.8
Base Costs                            1.7         15.0        16.7
Physical Contingencies                       0.1         0.4          0.5
Price Contingencies                          0.2          1.6         1.8
Total Project Cost                    2.0         17.0        19.0
Financing Plan:
(US $ million)            % of Total
Local    Foreign    Total         Project Cost
IDA                         -         13.5        13.5           71
GOS                         2.0        -           2.0            11
Arab Fund                   -          3.5         3.5            18
Total                       2.0       17.0        19.0           100
Estimated Disbursements:
FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88
(US$ million)
IDA          Annual                               4.5       5.8       3.0       0.2
Cumulative                          4.5      10.3      13.3       13.5
Estimated Rate of Return:             N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:               No. 4658-SO, dated March 5, 1984
Map:                                  IBRD No. 17262/3/4.



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.9 MILLION (US$13.5 MILLION) EQUIVALENT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A FISHERIES EXLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 12.9 million (US$13.5
million equivalent) to help finance a Fisheries Exploration/Pilot Project.
The Government would onlend the proceeds of the credit to the North East
Coast Fisheries Enterprise at a rate of interest of 12 percent per annum,
with a repayment period and/or conversion to equity to be determined
following the completion of a future financing plan based on the outcome of
the exploration/pilot project. The North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise
would onlend about $600,000 of the proceeds of the credit to individual
fishermen, at a rate of interest of 12 percent per annum, with repayment
over 11 years, including a grace period of one year. The Arab Fund has
agreed in principle to co-finance the project with a loan of US$3.5 million
equivalent on concessionary terms and conditions to be determined.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report on the economy entitled: "Somalia - Policy Measures for
Rehabilitation and Growth" (Report No. 4081a-SO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in May 1983. An Agricultural Sector Review in three
volumes (Report No. 2881a-SO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
June 1981. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
The Resource Base
3.         Somalia is a large, sparsely populated country; its varied
topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Its population
of about 5 million (including 400-500,000 refugees) is unevenly distributed
over a land area of nearly 630,000 sq km of semi-desert. Population growth
in recent years has been approaching 3 percent (excluding refugee inflows)
which will result in long-term pressure on the fragile resource base. Only
about 13 percent of the land is suitable for cultivation, but with water
the limiting constraint, only a small fraction (8.5 percent) of this
potentially arable land is cultivated.
4.        The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
Over 60 percent of the people depend on livestock for their livelihood;
about 20 percent are farmers; and 20 percent are engaged in various
1/ This text is identical to the one in the President's Report for the
Afgoy Gas Delineation Project, dated April 10, 1984.



- 2 -
agricultural operations. Livestock production accounts for about 35
percent of GDP and provides over 80 percent of export earnings. Crop
production generates about 10 percent of GDP. Although Somalia has one of
the longest coastlines (3,000 km) in Africa, fishing generates only about 2
percent of both GDP and employment.
5.        The country's limited natural resource base and its uncertain
energy potential account for the scarcity of economically viable investment
opportunities. Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas (in
which foreign concession holders are important) and the production of sugar
for the domestic market. Expansion of the manufacturing and service
sectors is limited by the small size of the domestic market, poor
infrastructure, and shortages of capital and entrepreneurial experience.
The existence of several minerals has been confirmed, but their exploration
is still at an early stage, and the commercial viability of production
remains to be proved.
6.        A number of foreign companies have been engaged in inshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. However, investigations under an IDA project for
petroleum exploration promotion have indicated possible natural gas
reserves near Mogadishu which could be used for power generation in
substitution for petroleum imports. In the absence of other known
resources, Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock
development, whose progress will depend upon careful management of the
scarce land and water resources.
7.        Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated to be below $300 in 1981. Other indicators of the
country's low level of social and economic development include: a crude
death rate estimated at 25 per thousand population (compared to a crude
birth rate of 48 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 40
years; an infant mortality rate as high as 150 per thousand population;
primary and secondary enrolment ratios of 50 percent and 7 percent,
respectively; and a ratio of nearly 20,000 persons per physician.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.        Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of "scientific socialism" whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
and which dominated manufacturing. The 1974-78 development plan and the
1979-81 development plan were essentially public investment programs that
allowed for only a few small private ventures. Although the plans provided
a needed impetus to investment, they did not play a major role in the
allocative process.  Despite the Government's initial intentions, industry



- 3 -
and infrastructure, especially transport and communications, received more
public investment than agriculture. At the same time, public enterprises
operated without firm Government control, owing largely to weak management
and inadequate monitoring.
9.        In the early 1970s, Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
noticeable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health where services have frequently been biased in favor of the urban
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
10.       On the production side, provisional national accounts data show
that between 1972 and 1978, Somalia's GDP grew in real terms by 2.8 percent
per annum, at approximately the same rate as population. On average, the
productive sectors grew much more slowly -- by only one percent -- as
compared to the growth of the services sector at about 7 percent,
reflecting to a large extent increased Government employment. Within the
productive sectors, the average annual growth was 2.7 percent in livestock,
minus 3 percent in crop production, and minus 2 percent in industry.
Comparable national accounts for 1979-1982 are not yet available, but
indicators suggest that an upturn in value added in crop production
occurred in 1981 and 1982, due to unusually favorable rainfall which
stimulated the output of maize and sorghum, and partly owing to improved
incentives provided by increased producer prices made effective in April
1981. In recent years, Somalia's dependence on food imports to meet its
growing consumption needs has increased; food imports now account for
one-third of total requirements. The growth of other sectors however,
continued to be stagnant.
11.       About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in neighboring
oil-exporting countries in the Gulf area. As labor migration has been
neither organized nor controlled by the Government, it has led to a severe
depletion of Somalia's already small stock of qualified and skilled
manpower, thereby weakening institutions and reducing the country's
absorptive capacity. The savings of these emigrants are potentially an
important resource for the economy, but despite substantial adjustment of
the exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants' savings is
remitted, largely through unofficial channels.
12.       Following the border conflict of 1977/78, there was a great surge
in Government expenditures which resulted in widening of deficits in both
the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the Government's
financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of the sizeable
expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict, the cost of
maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill associated with
the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for secondary school
leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid declined. This resulted
in Government recourse to deficit financing. With further deterioration in
the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's recourse to the Central
Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of GDP). This, in turn, led
to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60 percent in 1980.



- 4 -
13.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete and
provide a very deficient basis for meaningful analysis of trade and capital
movements. It may nevertheless be concluded that Somalia had a reasonably
comfortable overall balance of payments position up to the beginning of
1979. The stagnation in exports and surge in imports since 1979 resulted
in a widening of both the current and overall balance of payments
deficits. The current account deficit during 1980-83 averaged $283
million, as compared to $110 million in the years 1977-78. Total
international reserves, which rose steadily in the 1970s to $158 million in
March 1979, dropped to $15 million at the end of December 1980, and have
since then remained at about this level (about two weeks' imports).
14.       The stagnation of export earnings and the low level of domestic
savings have rendered Somalia increasingly dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and
transfers from 1975 onwards indicate that the effort has been successful.
After 1977, the sources of foreign assistance shifted from the centrally
planned economies (except for the People's Republic of China which
maintains a large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral
institutions and OECD countries, several of which have had substantial
assistance programs for a number of years. According to OECD data,
Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period 1980-1982 averaged $400 million
per year, equivalent to some $80 per capita per year.
15.       Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amounted to about $1,080 million at end 1983, representing nearly ten
times the value of recorded exports in that year. The structure and terms
of borrowing have also hardened. The debt service ratio rose from 7
percent in 1979 to 27 percent in 1982 and is projected (without debt
relief) at 45 percent in 1984. The country has also accumulated debt
service arrears. The IMF and the World Bank staffs have encouraged the
Government to seek debt relief, where possible on concessional terms.
16.       In sum, Somalia experienced in the late 1970s and into the early
1980s a deep economic and financial crisis characterized by: stagnation in
production and exports; a rapidly rising budget deficit financed through
recourse to the banking system; rapidly rising inflation; a worsening
balance of payments situation; a critical loss of foreign reserves; and a
worsening external debt situation. This crisis reflected not only adverse
developments in the international economy, but also past and current
weaknesses in economic management.
Recent Policy Changes
17.       As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the
Government became convinced of the need to take remedial action. It
embarked on a new course of moving towards a market-oriented economy, which
marked a basic reversal of past economic policies. Beginning in early



- 5 -
1981, the Government began to take substantial remedial action, and
successfully implemented two successive stabilization programs, which were
both supported by IMF Standby arrangements. The core of these measures
comprised adjustments of the exchange rate, fiscal and monetary restraints,
and de facto liberalization of agricultral marketing. As part of
stabilization under the first Standby program, a dual exchange rate was
introduced which meant a substantial devaluation of the Somali shilling.
Producer prices for agricultural crops were increased, while banana growers
received the full benefit of devaluation. The program stipulated a
substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking system, and
this was achieved. The Government also increased interest rates.
18.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, the Government
adopted a new stabilization program in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with
a SDR 60 million 18-month Standby arrangement for the period July
1982-December 1983. Under this program, several key policy measures were
taken: the dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982, the Somali
shilling was further devalued, and interest rates were further raised. The
Government also agreed further to restrict fiscal and monetary expansion.
Furthermore, in January 1983, the Government introduced a bonus scheme
providing for a premium of 25 percent in foreign exchange terms of inward
remittances and capital inflows by Somali nationals. These actions were
reinforced in mid-1983, when Somalia introduced a more flexible exchange
rate system. Under the new arrangement the Somali shilling was pegged to
the SDR adjusted by the relative rates of inflation between Somalia and the
five countries in the SDR basket. However, the beneficial effects of these
measures have so far been overshadowed by the negative impact of a ban on
Somali cattle imports by Saudi Arabia (which has been in effect since May
1983) and by the impact of a drought in 1983.
19,       In a recent courageous action, the Government decided to abandon
its policy of guaranteed employment to high school leavers.  An
interministerial committee is looking into the future of public
enterprises; the Committee's report and recommendations are likely to
become available soon.  The Government has also taken some steps to
liberalize the economy, particularly by de facto eliminating Government
monopsony grain purchases.
20.       The policy reforms introduced by the Government in the past three
years are quite significant and they had a positive impact on the economy
by reducing the rate of growth of the money supply, Government recourse to
the banking system, and the rate of inflation. These measures, which also
resulted in increasing commodity production and exports, represent the
first stage in the formulation and implementation of a policy agenda which
must be directed simultaneously at restoring financial equilibrium,
rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing agricultural and
industrial productive capacity, and establishing the foundations of
long-term growth.
21.       In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia and accepted the Bank's
recommendation that it prepare a Medium Term Recovery Program (MTRP) to be
presented to the Consultative Group meeting. As outlined by the Government
and subsequently elaborated in a government paper entitled "Development
Strategy and Public Investment Programme for 1984-86", the MTRP consists of



- 6 -
(i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring equilibrium in
the balance of payments and public finances and at rationalizing the
pricing and incentive structure; and (ii) a resource-constrained Public
Investment Program for the period 1984-86. The formulation of this
recovery program represented a major accomplishment on the part of the
Government.
22.       The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held on October 26-28, 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial
measures taken by the Government under the stabilization programs supported
by the IMF and by the Government's pursuit of its new policy path. In
particular, the participants appreciated the formulation of the Public
Investment Program and the emphasis in the program on rehabilitation and
improved utilization of existing facilities. The participants welcomed the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program at the Consultative Group meeting. These
adjustments included postponing some new projects (including the Bardhere
dam and associated investments, pending results of new studies), rephasing
the implementation of ongoing projects and introducing new high-priority
schemes such as the rehabilitation of irrigation in the Shebelli region.
Participants at the meeting favorably responded to the external aid
requirements of the public investment program and other elements in the
recovery program for 1984-86. It was recognized at the meeting that
further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly concessional terms and
that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief on concessional terms.
23.       Since the Consultative Group meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors have been held concerning follow-up
action on the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed
Bardhere Dam, and agreement was recently reached with the Bank on terms of
reference and a timetable for a study of interim water solutions. After
effectively implementing during the last three years two successive
Stand-by Arrangements, the Government approached the IMF for further
balance of payments support under an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) to deal
with the country's structural and short- to medium-term financial
problems. Agreement in principle on such a program was reached in early
1984. However, in February the Government decided not to implement certain
key measures. Discussions during the visit of a recent Fund mission
indicated that, although the Government accepts these measures in
principle, it is reluctant to implement some important ones at the present
time when the country is facing serious difficulties.
23.       The condition of the Somali economy, after having improved
markedly between mid-1981 and late 1983, has in recent months come under
increasing stress. It appears, moreover, that the renewed financial and
balance of payments difficulties which the country is now experiencing may
well intensify in the course of coming weeks and months.  This situation
has emerged from (i) the acute shortage of foreign exchange due to the fall
in livestock exports (consequent upon a ban on Somali cattle inports by
Saudi Arabia), a probable shortfall in grant receipts and the Government
decision not to go ahead with the IMF program at this time; (ii) a drop in
domestic food production owing to the current drought situation; and (iii)



7 -
a prospective shortfall in Government revenues which could lead to either
distruptive cutbacks in investment and current expenditures or to an
acceleration in credit and money supply, or some combination thereof.
These developments are resulting in a rising rate of inflation and a
rapidly falling exchange rate in the parallel market. If corrective
measures are not taken soon, a renewed economic and financial crisis could
ensue. A Bank economic mission, scheduled to visit Somalia this spring,
will review the current economic and financial situation and prospects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
25.       Since 1970, IDA has extended 24 credits to Somalia, amounting to
about US$193 million, of which roughly thirty percent has been for
agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest is about
equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. Over the last three years annual commitments have
risen from $10 million in 1981, to $15 million in 1982 and $23 million
1983. IFC has so far made one investment in Somalia -- a $375,000 loan in
1981 for a molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar Project. IFC is now
focusing its attention on export-oriented projects. In recent years, the
Abu Dhabi Fund, African Development Fund, Arab Fund, IFAD, Islamic
Development Bank, EEC, Kuwait Fund, Saudi Fund, and USAID have co-financed
projects in Somalia with IDA.
26.       Physical progress in implementing IDA projects has been mixed;
agriculture projects have not always done well, with the exception of the
North West Agriculture Project. Projects for roads, ports, water and
education have in general been executed expeditiously. Most projects have
included expatriate technical assistance, while also benefitting from
regular supervision missions, follow-up through the resident mission, and
annual country implementation reviews. The disbursement rate under the
projects has improved appreciably in recent years from about 15 percent in
FY79 to about 24 percent in FY83; this compares very favorably with the
Bank-wide average of 21 percent. The Government's Project Implementation
Unit which was set up in the Planning Ministry in 1980, and the more recent
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit contributed notably to this encouraging
trend.
27.       The Bank assistance strategy for Somalia is to encourage and
assist the Government in the formulation and implementation of rolling
medium-term recovery programs directed simultaneously at restoring
financial equilibrium and rehabilitation and making fuller use of existing



- 8 -
capacity, and at establishing the foundations of longer-term growtlh. The
Bank's economic and sector work for Somalia is designed to assist in
developing an adequate data base and improvements in macro-economic
management. Two other projects are in an advanced stage of preparation,
namely the Afgoy Gas Delineation Project, for which documents will be
distributed for Board considerqation on a date to be determined, and a
proposed Second Technical Assistance Project, which was recently appraised.
PART III - THE FISHERIES SECTOR
28.       An Agricultural Sector Review in three volumes (Report No.
2881a-SO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1981. It
emphasizes the need to strengthen and develop certain key areas of the
agriculture and fisheries sector, especially those which generate increased
production and exports in the short-run.. The sector strategy also calls
for development of underutilized resources (including activating sunk
capital) the expansion of private sector incentives and opportunities and
the establishment of additional export markets to increase foreign exchange
earnings.
29.       Adverse natural conditions that hamper full exploitation of
Somalia's known fish resources, include the lack of natural harbors with
safe anchorage for ocean-going vessels and smaller fishing craft, a
continental shelf which is too narrow and rough to be suitable for
large-scale trawling, hazardous navigation conditions for small boats
during the monsoon periods and the seaonal variations in distribution and
abundance of fish. Only Berbera, Mogadishu and Kismayo have commercial
deep water harbors with full port facilities. Another constraint is the
lack of institutional infrastructure. There are virtually no landing
facilities, workable ice plants, chill storage, nor workshops for engine
and boat repairs to serve the traditional fish communities. Although some
processing facilities have been established over a number of years, all of
them, with the exception of the cold store being refurbished in the south,
are in a rundown condition. The shortage of boats and fishing gear, the
absence of marketing and collection sytems, especially along the north
coast, and the alternative of attractive work opportunities in the Middle
East have led to a general reduction in the number of full time fishermen.
30.       Resources:  Data gathered by fishery research vessels in the
project area, the most notable being that of the FAO/NORAD survey vessel
R.V. Fridtjof Nansen, provide the best available estimates of stock
resources by species. These data analyzed by the Fisheries Research
Institute at Bergen, Norway, indicate good availability of pelagic 1/
11 Pelagic fish are at the water surface and include species such as
sardines, herring, anchovies, and tunas. Demersal fish are bottom
living species such as grouper, snappers, flounders, and lobsters.



-9 -
stocks, and have been estimated to be capable of yielding annual catches of
the order of 50,000 to 100,000 tons. At the same time, it is recognized by
experienced observers that the stocks, mainly sardine, king mackerel and
tuna, are subject to considerable fluctuations in abundance both from year
to year and place to place.
31.       There are two distinct parts to the fisheries subsector:  (i)
artisanal fishing in inshore waters which accounts for most of the landings
in Somalia; and (ii) commercial deep-sea fishing operated by joint-venture
operations using foreign vessels which do not generally land their catches
in Somalia but trans-ship the high value catches back to their home
countries for processing and marketing.
32.       Artisanal Fishing:  Fish production from artisanal fishermen
reached a peak of almost 8,000 tons in the mid 1970s, but fell by 1982 to a
level of about 4,000 tons because of lack of spare parts, maintenance
facilities, and cold storage facilities. In the absence of ice plants and
cold storage facilities along most of the coast, almost half of the total
annual catch of the artisanal landings is sun-dried and salted, mostly for
export. In 1980 the National Fish Factory at Kismayo bought about 6
percent of landings for export in frozen form; the canning plants at Las
Koreh and Habo/Candala utilized about 18 percent; about 20 percent were
used for fresh fish consumption mainly in Mogadishu; about 5 percent
consumed by hired fishermen directly as payment in kind. Unrecorded
exports of fresh fish to Djibouti and Kenya are estimated to total about 4
percent. Fish resources available to the artisanal fishery have not been
estimated but records of landing indicate that the present production
levels could be increased substantially.
33.       Commercial Fishing:  Commercial deep-sea trawling off Somalia
started in 1974 when a Somali/Soviet joint venture was established. The
total catch of the fleet over some four years was about 10,000 tons of fish
and 4,000 tons of lobsters. Following the Russian departure, catches fell
dramatically, but efforts have been made to re-establish a Somali offshore
trawling capability through the joint ventures with recent catch levels of
about 14,000 tons per year. The trawlable resources of Somalia have been
the subject of significant commercial explotation by distant water fishing
vessels. However, these vessels have concentrated primarily on demersal
species -- lobster, cuttlefish, and the larger snappers, bream and
grouper. Present catch rates for these species and the high cost of fuel
supplies cast some doubt on the degree to which present and planned
trawling effort can be expanded.
34.        Because no successful modern commercial fishery has been
conducted on any of the pelagic fish, such as sardines, herring, anchovies
and tuna, it is recognized that the first attempts under the proposed



- 10 -
project have to be exploratory in nature and be expanded only as more
experience and data are gained. The known small pelagic resources are
considerable and the large pelagic tuna and king mackerel have high unit
values; therefore the long-term development of these resources could be of
vast importance to Somalia's economy. Once catch rates and profitability
are established, the next step would be the development of harbor and
processing facilities and the phased purchase of purse seine fishing
vessels.
35.        The Ministry of Fisheries is responsible for all deep-sea
industrial operations, fishing cooperatives, the fish factory in the south,
marketing and cold storage operations in Mogadishu, canning plants on the
north coast and the resettlement centers which are administered through the
Coastal Development Agency. There are no extension services except those
organized through ongoing foreign funded projects.
36.        The strategy of Somalia's five-year development plan (1982-86)
calls for modifications of the fisheries policy, including privatization of
vessel ownership; abolition of the fixed price system for fish marketing;
liberalization of trade in fish and fish products; cessation of free supply
of boats and gear; and rechanneling of export and royalty earnings for
import purchases of needed spares and equipment. Institutional changes are
also required to improve the organization and management of fisheries. In
pursuit of these activities, the Ministry of Fisheries recognizes the need
for the Government to relinquish its control over those activities which
are better suited to commercial disciplines and the private sector. As a
first stage, the Ministry of Fisheries has created three Government owned
but autonomous enterprises -- Somalia GRP Products Company, for the
manufacture of boats and other products associated with the requirements of
the coastal fishery; the Somalia Marine Products Company, for
implementation of the inshore fisheries program in the lower Juba Region;
and the North-East Coast Fisheries Enterprise for the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.        The Project was appraised in February/March 1983.  A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Somalia - Fisheries Exploration/Pilot Project"
(No. 4658-SO) dated March 5, 1984 is being distributed separately. A
supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from January 9-13, 1984. The Government
delegation was led by the Minister of Fisheries, H.E. Osman Jama Ali; the
North-East Coast Fisheries Enterprise was represented by its General
Manager.
Project Objectives
38.        Efforts to exploit Somalia's fisheries resources have so far met
with limited success, despite the strong interest of many donor
agencies. The pilot project is an exploratory one. It is an attempt to



- ii -
determine the most feasible means for Somalia to exploit its knowr. fish
resources on the northeast coast, and to provide a framework for future
income and employment generation for one of the poorest parts of the
country. During the pilot phase, the project would: (i) determine the
feasibility and financial viability of exploiting the offshore resources;
(ii) test ttie critical assumptions for resuscitating the artisanal
fisheries; and (iii) evolve an institutional framework for future
development of the fisheries subsector. It is thus exploratory with
respect to both the need to establish the technical/economic base of
information to determine whether a full fledged commercial second phase
could succeed and the institutional and management requirements for a
successful second phase.
39.       Project Area:  The project would be the first IDA operation
located in the northeast part of the country, and as such responds to IDA
strategy of greater geographic spread in our operations. Project
headquarters are at Bolimog. Fishing villages are located along this coast
at points of limited shelter. No harbors exist. The fishing villages of
Ghesselei in Alula district, Elayu in Bossaso district and at Candala would
be the focus for fishing in the project area (Map IBRD No. 17262). There
are presently about 150 full-time and 400 part-time fishermen in the
project area, with about 350 canoes and 60 mechanized boats. Some of the
existing fishing boats are currently used for transport purposes, some in
support of the small canning factories at Habo and Candala, and others in
support of the subsistence catch of fish and dried fish trade. The area is
extremely poor in natural resources except for fish. These resources are
presently underutilized due to limited marketing facilities. Despite the
narrow continental shelf and rough trawling grounds which make large-scale
trawling impractical for demersal species, small boats fishing in the
untrawlable areas with hook and line catch excellent sized demersal fish of
superb quality.
Project Description
40.       The proposed Project would include three major components:
I. Inshore Artisanal Fisheries
(a)  With Bolimog as its headquarters, the project would finance fish
receiving, processing and transport facilities, together with
shore facilities, workshop, slipway and rehabilitation of
essential physical facilities, including housing. These would
service the adjacent small fishing communities of Alula, Habo and
Ghesselei using land transportation and would link with Bossaso
and Candala using a collector vessel.
(b)  Additional smaller fish receiving  facilities would be located at
Bossaso and Candala. At Bossaso, facilities would be financed to
service outlying fishing villages, including Elayu, and make
needed repairs to the existing jetty.
(c) Two vessels would be required to support inshore activities,
a vessel for fish collection from coastal villages, and a
trans-shipment vessel to deliver frozen product from Bolimog to
the cold storage at Berbera and to resupply Bolimog. Operating
costs would also be financed.



- 12 -
(d) Credit program to finance the purchase of up to 28 small fishing
boats and appropriate gear to be administered by the Fisheries
Company, in collaboration with the Somali Development Bank.
II.  Offshore Commercial Fisheries
The project would finance a pilot/exploration program with purse seine
fishing trials of up to 24 months duration in north-east Somali
waters. The trials would be conducted in order to determine the catch
rates, species composition and seasonal variation of pelagic fish
stocks in the project area. They would be carried out under
conditions which would approximate commercial fishing operations. The
purse seiners would be supported by a 23 m fiberglass combination
fishing vessel to be transferred by the Government to the fisheries
company, as a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(d)).
III. Technical Assistance
(a) The project would finance the headquarters cost of the
newly-established North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise, the
project entity. It would include the purchase of vehicles,
office equipment, staff salaries, travel, charter plane, and the
office.
(b) Technical assistance would also be provided to: (i) assist in
the management, setting up and operation of the inshore
facilities; (ii) assist in fisheries development at the level of
the village fishermen; (iii) provide a simple well-organized
training program to project area fishermen mainly in the areas of
basic literacy, boat, gear and engine maintenance; (iv) supervise
and carry out the offshore exploratory fisheries program; (v)
provide engineering, design and feasibility studies required for
the preparation of future harbor and fisheries facilities; and
(vi) provide for the design of an institutional training program
for mid-level cadre, suitable for international financing. The
total man years for the above technical assistance would be 37 at
a cost of US$4.4 million. The average man year cost (based on
the individual fees, international travel, local allowances and
overheads) is expected to be about US$120,000.
Project Cost
41.       Total project cost is estimated at US$19.0 million equivalent,
including local costs of about US$2.0 million (11 percent) and a foreign
exchange component of US$17.0 million (89 percent). Cost estimates are
based on projected prices as of January 1984. Base costs are US$16.7
million. A 10 percent physical contingency has been added to the cost of
processing, shore facilities, support vessels and operating costs of the
Fisheries Enterprise. Price contingencies have been separately calculated
for the foreign exchange and local currency components and total about 12
percent of base costs. Physical contingencies have not been provided for
offshore operations, fishing boat credit, purchase of the support vessel
and technical assistance.



- 13 -
42.       A US$550,000 advance under IDA's Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) was approved in December 1982; it is financing the foreign costs of
the corporate feasibility study (US$230,000), some initial technical
assistance (US$225,000), vehicles and equipment (US$50,000), and start-up
of the Fisheries Company (US$45,000). The advance will be refinanced under
the proposed IDA credit.
Financing Plan
43.       The project would be financed by the Government of Somalia
(US$2.0 million), the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development irn
Kuwait (US$3.5 million) and the Association (US$13.5 million). The Arab
Fund would finance, jointly with Government, the shore and processing
facilities at Bolimog, Bossaso and Candala; the purchase of small fishing
boats and appropriate gear for the Inshore Fisheries component and the
refit of the support vessel. The IDA credit would finance, jointly with
Government, all other components. Since the Board of the Arab Fund would
not formally approve its proposed loan before the Summer of 1984, no
cross-effectiveness clause has been included in order not to hold up
implementation of the off-shore component of the Project. Rather, the
availability of the Arab Fund financing has been made a condition for the
disbursement of IDA funds for the in-shore fisheries component of the
Project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).
44.       The Government would make the proceeds of the Credit, US$13.5
million, available to the Fisheries Enterprise as a loan at an interest
rate of 12 percent per annum, with the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
the Government (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
The level of credit activity for the fisheries subsector is small and
additional lending under this projct would amount to only US$600,000.
Although the 12 percent interest rate is not positive in real terms at the
current rate of inflation (average 1981-83 = 29 percent), it is slightly
higher than the current interest rate for agricultural loans (10/11
percent). There would be no payment of interest or capital during the
project period. The operating costs of the processing facilities would be
financed from the sales proceeds of the inshore catch and the initial
working capital to commence operations would be provided by the Government
through its investment in the enterprise.
45.       The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government
and the Fisheries Enterprise satisfactory to the Association, would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 5.01(a)). The exact arrangements for repayment of the Government
loan by the Fisheries Enterprise and/or the conversion of part of the loan
into equity, would be included in a future financing plan to be developed
by June 1987, based on the outcome of exploration/pilot phase, following
IDA agreement. In consultation with the Association, the Government would
then also decide on future investments in harbor and fisheries facilities
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03).
Project Implementation
46.       North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise:  The proposed project
would be implemented over a three-year period by the newly-created North
East Coast Fisheries Enterprise, which was established in March 1984 under



- 14 -
procedures and statutes governing the formation of autonomous ersterpri_^s.
It would initially be a wholly owned government enterprise with legal
autonomy. The Board of Directors consists of the Minister of Fisheries
(Chairman), representatives of the Ministries of Fisheries and Finance, the
private business community, a representative of SDB and the General
Manager. The establishing legislation, which has been approved by the
Association, defines the objectives of the Enterprise, the powers of the
General Manager and arrangements governing operations.  The Enterprise is
authorized to maintain an offshore bank account necessary for project
implementation in view of the shortage of foreign exchange and to recruit
and employ personnel directly. If the project is to succeed, it will need
a strong organization, suitable transport, and a competitive advantage and
market, in addition to motivated fishermen. The Enterprise would also
provide a basis for future commercial operations, and be a mechanism that
would establish a framework for future private sector investment in the
fisheries sector.
47.       The Enterprise would employ two consultant firms which would be
under the control of the General Manager. One would implement the
artisanal component of the project and the other would handle the
exploratory/pilot test commercial fishing program. The employment of
consultants for the artisanal component would be a condition of
disbursements under the vessel category (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4). The selection process for the employment
of the pilot/exploratory test fishing program consultants has been
completed and the contract would become effective when financing from the
IDA credit becomes available.
48.       Artisanal Component.  The program for the redevelopment of
artisanal fisheries in the project area would test the assumptions which
could be used in production-oriented development programs to assist
artisanal fishermen to achieve production levels sufficient to justify
future investments.
49.       In order to test the feasibility of credit operations, up to
about $600,000 of the proceeds of the IDA credit would be earmarked for a
Credit Program to finance up to 28 fishing boats and appropriate gear to
fishermen within the project area. The estimated cost of arn 8.5 m fishing
boat and gear is about 340,000 Somali shillings (US$20,000). The
beneficiaries would be required to make a contribution of 10 percent of the
total cost and repay the balance with interest at 12 percent per annum over
an eleven-year period including a grace period of one year. The Somali
Development Bank will make a qualified loan officer available to assist in
carrying out this credit program (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02). In the event that the inshore artisanal fisheries do not
prove to be financially viable for the individual fishermen who have taken
up credit from the Fisheries Enterprise, the latter would purchase the
fishermen's assets at levels consistent with his original contribution. If
the offshore fishery component fails, the Government would have to absorb
the cost. With the exceptiorn of the fish processing facilities, however,
most of the remaining infrastructure could probably be adapted to other
economic uses.



- 15 -
50.       Pilot/Exploratory Test Fishing Program.  This program would
commence in September 1984 and would determine the future commercial
potential of the valuable pelagic species by establishing catch rates,
seasonal fishing grounds, most appropriate fishing gear, operational base
for vessel activities, local crew performance and training needs,
biological data to determine species composition, maturities, age structure
of the population, seasonal distribution and feeding habits, trial
processing and handling procedures, and detailed data on costs. Two purse
seine vessels, about 33 m long would be chartered. Each vessel would have
have an experienced crew and a data gatherer/recorder. One senior
consultant staff member would be aboard one of the vessels. who would
direct the operation of both vessels by radio and maintain communication
with the general manager. As a condition of effectiveness the Government
would transfer one of its 23m fiberglass combination fishing vessels as
additional support to the operations of the purse seiners, thus enabling
maximum time for fishing trials (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sector
5.01(d)). The purse seiners would be capable of considerable flexibility
in fishing. Nets for catching small and large pelagic species would be
available and deployed as circumstances dictate. The vessels would also be
capable of fishing at night using light attraction devices, and capable of
carrying out experimental mid-water trawling. They would be equipped with
refrigerated circulating brine freezing tanks and would be fitted out to
handle both small and large pelagics. Each operational period of about 60
days would contain a period of about 10 days for maintenance, crew rests
and resupply.
51.       The consultants would advise on the best method for the onboard
handling of small pelagics. All operations of this type are normally
supported by substantial processing facilities either at sea with large
expensive mother ships or by shore plants. The handling methods that would
be considered under the project are: (a) freezing the catch and delivering
it to one of the refrigerated carriers serving the area for onward
transport to an appropriate market; (b) if the quantity of catch is
sufficient to warrant it, the chilled fish would be delivered over the side
to a mother ship which would purchase the catch, freeze it and arrange its
onward distribution; (c) chilling or freezing the catch in brine and
delivering it in the seiner to market; or (d) release to the sea subsequent
to capture but after estimating quantity and species breakdown and the
taking of samples.
52.       The consultants would also provide marketing services and may, in
due course, recommend the appointment of an agent in some or all of the
potential markets in order to discharge those sales which result from the
successful handling of the catch. Experiments would be conducted to assess
the Middle East market acceptability of frozen small pelagics processed and
handled under the conditions prevailing on board the purse seiners. Trial
shipments would be made to markets in the Middle East, particularly to
Saudi Arabia and Egypt. From these trials, some estimate of the market
potential for full-scale production would be extrapolated. Future project
markets would be predicated on the availability of shore processing
facilities and these trials are viewed as being pilot project specific.
However, the trials are important to the project because they would open



- 16 -
the opportunity for revenues to be earned even during the pilot project
phase; provide valuable market information on fish processed by purse
seiners; yield useful insights into the detailed marketing arrangements
within the various Middle Eastern countries.
53.       Annual work programs would be prepared by the two consultant
firms and submitted to the General Manager. These would be essential to
implementation, monitoring and evaluation for review and approval. They
would include: (i) review of project implementation in the current year;
(ii) detailed description of the work to be carried out in the forthcoming
year including objectives, deployment of staff and equipment; (iii)
requirement for additional staff, equipment and other inputs; and (iv) a
budget and financing plan; (v) progress of the enterprise towards meeting
its objectives; (vi) progress on the artisanal fisheries development
program; and (vii) reporting of cruise plans and results from the
pilot/exploratory test fishing program. Initial work programs would be
prepared within two months of employment of the consultants for IDA
approval. For the following year, they would be submitted to the Fisheries
Company by April 1 and after review, to the Association by May 15 for its
approval (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08)).
Related North Coast Fisheries Development
54.       The fisheries development in the north coast of Somalia would be
further assisted by two related fisheries projects being financed by United
Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA): (a) the UNCDF project which would support
inshore fishing activities between Berbera and the Djibouti border and open
up alternative export markets; and (b) the DANIDA funded project which
would provide a 400-ton cold storage facility at Berbera and provide a
focus for export and some small domestic sales. DANIDA expects that the
facility would be completed prior to production becoming available from our
proposed IDA project. Signing of the DANIDA agreement with Government for
the construction of the cold storage facility would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(b)). Input to the cold storage would be provided by fishermen from
both the proposed UNCDF funded project to the west and the proposed IDA
project to the east.
Procurement
55.       All contracts for supply of vehicles, equipment and services
financed by IDA, exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to ICB in accordance
with IDA guidelines. The items would be aggregated in order to attract
major contractors and suppliers. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would
receive a preference in ICB bid evaluation of 15 percent or the import
duty, whichever is lower. Contracts less than US$100,000 and in aggregate
totalling no more than US$500,000 would be procured by the Fisheries
Enterprise through local competitive bidding (LCB). These procedures were
reviewed at negotiations and found acceptable to the Association. For
contracts under US$10,000 up to a total of US$300,000, comparative shopping



- 17 -
or purchasing off the shelf would be used. Contracts would total about
US$1.2 million. In total, ICB would account for about 33 percent by value
of the purchase of goods described above.
56.       Spare parts, fishing gear and fuel (US$1.7 million) for boats and
processing facilities would be purchased by quotations from the
manufacturers of the equipment, other reliable parts manufacturers and
dealers, as appropriate. The secondhand trans-shipment vessel (US$0.8
million) would be procured on the basis of international shopping
procedures. This would be based on a certified marine survey and appraisal
by a licensed marine surveyor of a short list of available second-hand
vessels to meet the outline specifications. Any needed dry docking,
repair, or alterations for the trans-shipment and collector vessels
(US$0.3 million) would be procured through quotations.
57.       The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants (US$4.8
million) would have to be satisfactory to the Association. In addition,
suitable purse seine fishing vessels to carry out the exploratory pilot
fishing trials would be chartered (US$4.4 million). Due to the small
number of potential suppliers procurement would be carried out through
limited international bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
58.       All bidding packages for services, works and goods estimated to
cost over US$0.25 million equivalent would be subject to IDA review of
procurement documentation. This would result in coverage of about 75
percent of the total estimated value of contracts financed by IDA. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after
contract award.
Disbursement
59.       The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be disbursed over four
years; they would be fully documented. No comparable disbursement profile
for a pilot project of this type exists. The IDA credit would be disbursed
as follows:
(a) Vessel and Operating Costs: 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures -
US$2.6 million;
(b) Charter of Purse Seiner: 100 percent of foreign
expenditures - US$4.0 million;
(c) Fishing Gear, Vehicles and Office Equipment: 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures -
US$0.4 million;
(d) Technical Assistance: 100 percent of foreign expenditures -
US$4.3 million;
(e) Other Materials, Equipment and Services: 100 percent of
foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures -
US$0.7 million;



- 18 -
(f)  Refund of Project Preparation Advance:  - US$0.5 million;
and
(g) Unallocated: - US$1.0 million.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
60.       In addition to the normal reporting requirements of similar
projects, arrangements would be made for specific monitoring and evaluation
of the offshore and artisanal components. Draft guidelines for the conduct
of the pilot/exploratory pelagic fishing trials and for the socio-economic
and catch data for the artisanal fisheries are available. These would be
finalized by the consultants, in consultation with the general manager of
the company, and the association with a view to adopting them to serve as a
management tool. The offshore consultants would by December 31, 1986, make
available their final report which would estimate the future commercial
potential for development of pelagic fishing in Somali's northern waters.
The artisanal consultants would by the end of the project period report on
the major components of the inshore fisheries. These reports and the data
collected would also constitute the basis for planning the future harbor
and fisheries facilities (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03).
Accounts and Audit
61.       The Fisheries Company would establish and maintain separate
project-related accounts in commercial form, in accordance with sound and
generally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to
IDA, thus enabling the company to provide interim and annual financial
statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the
project. Independent commercial auditors acceptable to the Association,
would be appointed and their report, would be provided within six months of
the close of the fiscal year (draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.01 and
4.02).
Environmental Effects
62.       The project would have no adverse effect on the environment and
such minimal effects as may occur would be justified in view of the
substantial economic and social benefits expected to occur in the future.
Insignificant fish processing waste would be expected from the daily volume
of fish as the export product would be frozen whole fish.
Benefits
63.       Most of the investments under the project are exploratory and the
objective is to gather more information on the resource, the technical and
logistical parameters and reduce the risk for future investments. During
the project cycle, there would be no significant incremental production due
to the pilot nature of the project and no attempt has been made to
calculate an economic rate of return. However, an attempt has been made to
look beyond the pilot phase to view the longer term possibilities.



- 19 -
64.       The key to unlock the small-scale fisheries sector in the North-
East is the development of the valuable offshore pelagic commercial fish
stocks in order to provide adequate volume, quality and price required to
secure both export markets and funds needed to support the costs of
infrastructure for both offshore and inshore operations. The development
of the artisanal sector depends also upon the future ability of the inshore
fleet to market its catch in export markets opened up by commercial scale
operations. Although the pilot project would only initially benefit about
1,000 families, the number of beneficiaries should increase considerably if
the pilot/exploration project is successful.
65.       Inshore: Artisanal Fishing.  In advance of data and lessons drawn
from the pilot project, the most likely projections for the North Coast,
would postulate a steady expansion in fish production from about 100-200
tons a year to about 1,600 tons by the end of the third year. Full
production of about 4,000 tons, valued at about US$7 million at 1983 prices
could be reached in year seven. While 1600 tons in year three is a
substantial increase in relative production, it is small by fishery
standards and would serve only to validate the pilot approach taken by
project authorities.
66.       The inshore catch handled by the project would consist mainly of
species highly regarded by markets in nearby Middle Eastern countries and
by other international markets (Europe and Far East). Export markets for
bream, snapper, grouper, seabass and crevalle are excellent. New supplies
of high quality hook and line caught fish of these species are few.
Incremental exports from the project would constitute less than 1 percent
of total supply and therefore project production would have no impact on
international markets for these species. A major emphasis of the project
would be to improve the quality of the fish exported from Somalia relative
to similar supplies from other countries in order to atract premium
prices. Only a small part of the catch would be sold on the local market.
67.       Offshore: Commercial Fishing.  Assuming a successful offshore
pilot project phase, considerable possibilities exist for a fuller
exploitation of the fish resources. Purse seiners of the type to be used
in the pilot are capable of catching about 8,000 tons each which at 1983
prices would produce annual export earnings of about US$4 million. The
catch from a fleet of purse seiners would thus enable considerable
investments to be made in harbor development and processing facilities;
thus producing significant export earnings, a profitable enterprise and an
attractive return on such investment.
68.       The achievement of this level of production would not be easy to
accomplish. However, the lack of viable alternatives for a country with
few resources as a basis for developing the North Coast justifies the risk
inherent in the development of the pelagic fishery as a means of ensuring
the development of an inshore fishery (ref. para. 64) which could in turn
have significant regional development implications for employment, income



- 20 -
generation, modernization and poverty alleviation. Furthermore, there is
ample reason to believe that these pilot operations in the commercial
fishery could lead to significant and profitable private sector
opportunities after the pilot stage.
Risks
69.       The very nature of the exploration/pilot project points to major
risks, among which are the complete remoteness of the project area, the
hostile physical environment, lack of basic facilities and the extreme heat
during the three-month monsoon period. These factors present an enormous
challenge for the development of a successful fishing industry. The
project management will have to overcome the extraordinary logistic
problems of dealing with an area which is essentially isolated from the
rest of Somalia. To assist in overcoming these risks, additional
logistical support for the cost of support vessels, radio communication,
air charter and the control center at Bolimog have been included in the
project costs. In addition, allowance has been made for increased
technical assistance to accommodate the lack of trained manpower within the
area and the fisheries subsector.
70.       The project implementation period of three years also presents a
challenge as to whether the project will be able to develop and test the
assumptions required for the future development within the timeframe. This
risk would be partly mitigated by the fact that the Fisheries Company has
been established, a qualified General Manager is in post and a letter of
intent for the contract for the pilot/exploratory test commercial fishing
program has been signed. There may be risks associated with the
implementation of Government's declared policy of relinquishing centralized
control but it is not possible to assess at this time the degree to which
operational difficulties may be encountered because of Government actions.
71.       The success or failure of the artisanal operation would also
depend whether it would be possible to establish a fisheries development
program. The system must be one that is easily understood and adopted by
the fishermen because of a realization that it offers a solution to some of
their problems. Much would depend on the goodwill and ability of the local
leaders, Government officials and the consultants to work harmoniously with
the fishermen and the other traders who presently provide the only viable
link with the outside world.
72.       If the offshore fishery component failed, the Government would
absorb the cost. With the exception of the fish processing facilities,
however, most of the few remaining infrastructure could probably be adapted
to other economic uses.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali
Democratic Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the North East Coast Fisheries Enterprise, and
the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1
(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 10, 1984



- 22 -                                                        Annex I
T A b L E  3A                                              PACL I
SOMALIA                    - SOCIAL INULCATOR5 DArA SH{EE.T
SOMALIA                                    KEFERENCE GROUPS (ALIGIITLD AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTI!LATrE) /b
/bREb itH;CENTI  /b   LU.W INCOME               IIMIDLF INCOrli
1 960-          L97G-/b  ES llAb        AFRICA S. OF SAriAKA       AFKICA S. OF SA;I/RA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOrAL                                   637.7         637.7         637.7
AGllECULEURAL                           298.2         298.7         299.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        110.0        120.0         280.0                254.6                        1147.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           16.0          35.0         85.0                  73.6                        724.2
POPULATIOh AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    2450.0            3238.0       4392.0
URBAbi POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)            17.3         23.1          30.9                 19.5                         2S.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION 1i YEAR 2000 (MIILL)                                     7.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      23.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             3.3           5.1          6.7                  29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. EEl. AGRI. LAND                 8.2          10.8         14.3                  94.1                        131.d
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                              43.8          46.5         43.5                  45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                              53.6          51.6         53.6                  52.1                         51.2
65 AND ABOVE                            2.7           1.9          2.7                   2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                   1.8           2.8           2.8                  2.8                           2.8
URBAN                                   4.8           5.7           5.4                  6.2                           5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             46.2          48.2          48.3                 47.9                          47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIOUS)             28.9          26.8          25.3                 19.2                          15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.2          3.2           3.2                  3.2                           3.2
FAMILY PLANNIN
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                            97.0         100.0         62.0                  87.8                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           89.0          82.0        100.0                  88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               76.0          68.0          78.0                 51.2                         56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             47.0          43.0         38.0/c                18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              39.9          35.1          31.2                 25.7                         23.6
HEALTI
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTII (YEARS)           35.0          37.2          38.8                 47.4                          51.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TUOUS)           175.0         158.5        145.1                 126.5                        117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                     ..         15.0         33.0/d                24.7                         25.4
URBAN                                    ..          17.0         58.07W                56.8                         70.5
RURAL                                     ..         14.0         20.0/d                18.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..          47.O/e                28.1
URBAN                                    ..            ..           77.077               65.7
RURAL                                     ..           ..           35.O/e               21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              36570.0       24530.0      14290.0               27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                4810.0        4280.0       2330.0                3456.2                       2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 690.0         660.0        660.0/c              1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                 140.0         280.0            ..                380.6                        402.3
RURAL                                5640.0        7390.0            ..               3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER ROSPITAL BED                 ..            ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF lOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..           5.51c
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _   _ _   _     _     _     _     _     _     _   _ _   _ _   _ _   _ _ -_ _ -_ _   _ - -_ - -_ - -_ _ - _ - -_ - -_ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ _ -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ - -_ -



-23 -                                                            Annex I
. A D L U  JA \AGL 2
SoJIXJA                    - SD01 A  I:.UICATINtS OA94    S:iEcT
iiOlALIA                                    IL?C'ItCr uROaPS (n_IR1IU  AVEtAEES, /d
1OSr                          (.2IJSI (CENT ESrliNAIE) /b
/b  RECENT                 LO. INCtIL                 .iVDLEU INCo:ME
1350-        197uI -  ESEIMATs-          A,/  L CA S. OF SAtLARA     AFRICA S. OF SAIiARA
EDUCAT ION
ADJcSIED CEROLL:EN I  ATIOS
7.il'LYRY:   rVTAL                       9.)          1.0)          41.u                  63.9                          97.2
.AIN LkL                   13.J          17.u          f 3. u                73. o                        103.1
:EMALE                      to            5.O          29.0                  51.6                          88.5
SGCjXDAKY: IurAL                         l.u           5.o           6.0                  12.5                          17.2
'ALE                        2.3           5.0           9.0                  16.7                          23.5
FEcMALE                     ..2           2.u           3.u                   d.1                          14.2
VOCAUIONAL (/. OF SECONDARY)              26.4           3.1          22.9                   7.3                           5.2
PUPiL-TEACHilR RAPId
FREMAR\Y                                29.o          33.0          31.u                  4b.4                          42.9
SECO,JARY                               20u.          24.o          i6.u                  25.1                          23.7
ADELI LITLKACY RATE (1) I.S/g                            5.0          bO.J/f,i              36.5                          37.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGE& CARS/T,IDUSAl:D  FOP             1.1           2.1            . .                  3.3                         1.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TRGiUSALiD  PuP            9.8          15.,          2u.4                  45.3                          97.8
TV RECEIVEKS/TNOUSAND POP                    ..            ..            ..                  2.2                          18.b
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GE.2RAL
INTE&EST`) CIRCULATION
PER PHOUSANt POPULATION                   0.8           1.4            ..                   4.7                          18.2
CINE'A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            0.6           L.5            *-                   1.0                           0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THIOLS)              1017.0        1257.o        1717.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        30.1          29.7          27.5                  34.5                          36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   88.0          85.0          82.0                  76.9                          56.8
INUOSTRY (PERCENT)                       4.0           6.0           8.0                  9.8                           17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   41.5          38.8          39.1                  40.9                          37.0
MALE                                    58.7          55.2          56.2                  53.0                          47.1
FtEMALE                                 24.7          22.8          21.7                 28.9                           27.0
ECONOMIC DLPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1           1.2           1.2                   1.2                           1.3
INCOMtE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVAPE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5X OF AOUSEtIOLDS                 ..            ..            ..
tiUIIEST 202 OF iiOUSLHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 207 OF 8IOUSEIIOLDS                ..
LOWEST 402 OF ilOUSElULDS                 ..            ..            .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ASSOLOTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..            ..         150.0/f               165.9                        534.2
RURAL                                     ..            ..         110.0/f                87.4                        255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..            ..          65.0/f              100.8                         491.5
RURAL                                     ..            ,.          5O.0/f               64.6                         188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBAN                                     ..            ..          40.0/f                39.5
RURAL                                     ..            ..          70.07W                69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 U E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   nless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estiamate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1958; /i Increase due to literacy campaign of 1974.
May 1983



-24 -                                                                              ANNEX I
DtPiOITictOS OF SOCIAL inDICATORS
Ml80.:  although she data ate Ir-s  r- enorce  genray judged_the   at aoth-ro-tta  and reliable.  In  -nod  -o  e tst                            -toysy tOrhenaroay
coprbe bees   f thelak of  .tssdatdse   oe                      ddott n  cocpts  sed by dliffer-n  contie   O  colctcg .O noca.  The daoa ar, rntee.o050It
descitbe orders, f.eaoud   trod icte  tra,,ad  hot.a ratei-e cartin ..Jr.i, erne  Oceeonoct
mereernc  gro-ae           :IItees  noutrnl grop ofI cOssbetconr   n   2  acutygop  hcteca -Igpcacrh- nce ou  th  country.groo  ofoh
sobjt o  ooooy  exept  oo 'tlgoInc D"  0  taoreE.      oo   hc   nd  eIoe  Oao   fiaadOol   cc   tCct  hscanc _                               otI_oe   so _o_coh_ucI
sfistee      I  terssete  rupdtate   ocaesae   aplclroegotd  nsha istt   tcsc   ro iaurad  notcc  anntaort   o   hcInSosOt 
droop  tie dtafo  chrIdiao,                c  the..trI.   o   orre   sn   r   rtetr   epnso   n   n  ooorn   aoach   0   0 tore,  autIo --L t
h.rhs   nrliIo_        nraaofnrhnncr  oaohr    heeasae    r  ol   eflI   t.aldtecl xnoehdc-haahauo    o   onr   n
i970 and 1981 dat.                                                                                yorPooato- car Ouric  yetssnn- yn! cldthc  don idad by  -cbar oh craoo "I
hetotrl-fE tsc    f                    I_ctoa    r   needItsuspo   araetl                       sale and ta_al  grudodc  nres. aIIh_n  o..ea. Fracl_al torte  and
r,on trp.psnes            ktad blochen gadn    r to be. ftllox: 1960,                                nosntoeu  ara
IMP PIR CAPITA (US$) - 1P yer napil ta  s -ate  at cor--  nrkIt yricet,                                  areiae hetopbt,: end prri-a   genra  and e pancaI.len  hspi tlIs
calculatd by eas  canr-      o   sathd as  ald ta-  Atlas (19(9-8  tasce tornclia  o    etr.nsuaerncniasnsparaatyso 
96~0. 180,ad 1981 data.                                                                               by ac leas  -t  yh, ysclut.fatbhlone...t  prodiding  mIndflply oan   a
yri Iary    nary (c.-h and lIgnt,ptnt_,nsrtgsan   yr-   ulea                                           -eita        .oe, sideitf, -tc.l cOt- offer inpaheoarnadtin  n
and genatersa  electricity)Ic kiio8ras.  f cua  tquirsle_t ceOcai;                          rp-rdea.lhict-ta-ga  Or  jrdinal  taci dOns              ton oceli_oca   Pu.ya
1960, 1970, sod 1980 doss.                                                                             urba  hospialnl inch de  HotI.Oc   halp0oeal   os1 al , and rura
hnsit i   lnairor    hI-nei tlc  nnsh  I     di- an   acr .t .enters.
KPOPLAXtftONO fSITAL STA!TS1TC9                                                                          S-nntaihed boaP Ital  ate InnIded ony   ndrtonatl.
Ina   nn itnr.Pd-l... (Ttho-aads( -hof Joy I; t9b0, 1970, and 1981                         Admhsali-  oar borlalth..Toa iobar  fadococoordhcag
UrbanP0iahn(arasu  tonal) - Ra.to of urban to total pnpelatin
dntff-en  defi.let -n  of urtic aras y  ff-to   -apa-bil tayni data                             oOc IriG
aso    uutim    9b1  9,72, tnd 198i dec.                                                 deaeSn   fhceod    esc   a   oahl)     ou    rao   n   ua
Pnptolalon Inneat lll - Cnnenc pptilaton proection   arIIe n18                          ocercbsas                   hIrdron...r  aro  ad-  no  ha tlocldhd ho
ontl  opuatanty  gean  ne  aa  hei  er-gliy  ndfer..c. c.o.hoseho It'.'oelatuna  purpont...
plannIngperformace.  tac   ....tr  ei. thnuetne    neoPte.  nibs                           Icatoe loclie  08   Ot EI-encrcoty  I  lb. co                 b ucant drsa
c      Iboeos   f    araiyadfercl htynreI'la  for prje   onp-ruse                           f coca1, uran  ad rnu    n I ntsrotmescnhy
..toon IT   oato   - I       -sstaoonar   nannaiuntem O  n           -no
haheo  trppllnh  teya                  I20,ad th   aeo   ei                fyearsI but adjut-td for AlitEnentb lrngrha on prnary he-ainn; ton
Y..,sta-hn...   ouce Ion         ..e reahef   7 he ye-   ie  ssati .n.any                                It_   oepui    rtnlao aPn-e torn offiIIcc lshool age.
pousiu .an  sill berahed.                                                                   Secoodrnnooo -  oal   al   n  tesul  - lonpu-dasIhub-;aecnnday
Pe  e.  e  . CIAyea    opalaian pe   s .ar   ......e.n  (Il  hentare.... f                      prorldee ge-erl,  cctoa            r etrh --h-  hn Itilg  hscut usI     o
total srs.. og. 1970, sId 19   dat.                                                                  cpc -oscltynt1   b not   years of nit:   --rrsy-dens cre   r
PIr IK  h.  aslnlor    ad _ Cospesed us  bonf to  agrIcultura  land                                    generaly  -ncldd_
nni;1960, 11 .nOad l9n0 d.l.                                                                 V-raoInnlnr-hlntyntcnuocao-.uoinicscutc
Ponrelashas Ma Structure  perceas) - ChIldren (0-l  yerl,nrdlsae(5                        tcldeochlol,pd-utiaI, .n nthar Prrogcassthioh openate indeand-
reelths   9bh,1_1971, and 0981 data.                                                        Poidcec e:co n     nlon.  n                         7ooor -Toa   scdeottetrlld. In
yes  rpuscno  orto-S,  96070  sd  nf-1 i.th               f.I1.d                         r-esfu-dh-gL.onhls
ropolsoc   fo  I0-0 h.      0-1  and 1970-n I.                                                   a  cret5    fno:udl   ouohngdI   -uladoon
Crude h t                      Mae(n  c e ) - AnuaI 1 br births on ch-onad of eld-
yerpplco;9OS    90   o  19l  dlaca                                                    COtSUeyTlnu
pplto;1960. :970, and 1981 data                                                               Pr-'aigls   trocn   osoltclAs  nolne                               ere   n
Irces Oserheucttno    .. .-.n.r.. .         d.."o I-ontreaoa    ail her  onI boy _nriclas
fcili-y raes iuual   fite-ya   ancaaseni   h  1000  hOPO, anpnxcoaorrrlrhh    r  nto d of rooao; counaOt
Ol blpsh-ccnrnl deotras  nder auspho_   of tati tonal fasly pianncng                        los  le  blse   1Iee
Pr,gram.                                                                                          Thoecein-r  (pcer  hcoosaodndoacn(TV .... irrsrFrhb-dnuonI
_de of chld- bearing 4a-e            )         h. -yersI n   us tbrc-rcol .   dechcr. Id             hr. c          -ncand tocer  ao  ro  lrno   f TV sotea-             ninet
(OOD AOl Ot.YfiTlOeh                                                                                     clchrlo(a                denn` Iinero    Ins-"yo,  o(neauperiodhcl
atnotal crudotncto n(all (odd tosanditlas.PrI)occLocnludesund                            Obh     oly   fItapersa   ..ae. fou   lusoec
coifes and sea arI.    Ilae).  Aggrogats prbdooi-o  ofe_trton l              ssoi    ci
tsD=  o   a  na   irg   Albduce  pic  se. _ito; 19b1-t ,  IO.  o    d
ye nrlcaouoy of clre    preso.eqheet    - Icep-cd ersloa   Fao  (once (thuuoands     Et-                                                  l.rncucu I aconpror    ncu-g  r
etegrecoalet  f net foo.          0r  a   n  lbaccueyprcyi   a                                       forces and     syoynd hotonc -od ing nohe  ccodnns,  nc.,coa
norots ,and  tange Intuc.   he  soollxaenrlde aisa  Oxe, seds,            nsoaatl I1967. 1970 000 lO I%I i
qua nli,ee  -edIn toofd pruc...eins, and losses in dsto ibothot.                                    Fe-eI. (p--cen I- F-sah  Idirl- raa   eretg   f   tIlabo  foere
actintny mcdh .raic  consu do-ic  enintseca -1         peetre  hdy aelgota,                            fiuhioga ..per--ntate f tnllnnOc~(0   1971 and 1901 nata
ate andse  Ahatrihutito  ofdrplo,ed ell-ing 12 percent inn caste                                    louo       p--'econ   - laortoteh eihn,cnnoclcnauatrg
at bhusehohd 1-el1; 1961-65, 1970 end 1980 dan.                                                        adeetlct,etrarcgsa      cr  g  n-iOn,aR  fan-r,tonce   196hO,
Per -aila xonlo of  -roo   (gat  n    a)-  rci  c--eo   of per ocpita                                    I910 and 1991 data.
-eaoy-     op   tocoa  da.OtspIyo               .ndO  detf-edaxahona.                             Pa."iano  tue(etnt                         -ool.   l    - ad f-nleyrhnipconn
Reureei  ion all  -uoncrt.eIee-blhsohed by IceDA rpntd  foIiu                                  acnm    atsaertspd as iotal   -olo . ar  tuan   Or-ccx
yolsa pronelo, of   In  II gras  should ha a-l-a  p-otel.  mes                                       1300  971. and 1981 oas. htb  Ar -c d on- w T              ynn-,1iclpai.   re
ecaudeda  annloner  han clse of75  r-a  If total rr htad  I1 gnats                            IP.rogac-e   nurooo   n   popI_ooo   n_                    og  hsp red
TidWrd  oo  Succy; tlt1-S5, 1970 od 190  das.                                                c-nsl  22Epntdrc  rati   - Oct1  of               -nlolcoder II and hi  -nd on-o
d-i-cd foos a           -sao r  pole   Ic0etspe  day  lPt          00od 1077
Child (ae i-u) DInuonRa-  'p- nohoutad) - unts deotb   or S(non.1o7R-otao f   yoA--  rrl-n  fbnto  L- coo   -d clod) - hRcelno   It rlrren   I
crotlc  aa  airomo   if   ana   1 1960  1971 od, 71981 daca,                                        h.xeoic
abI-c; 19600  :970 or- tn 1     data-sns    hahnnrrcn  ltF nnhnnolaarhn
Inpfant 4netl.li   tote  pI rotoossod  - AcnoaI doothe  It infxcot.  d-  -c                         Osonated Abonl-t   ito7Ine   da    O   nr10 L0).- urn- ond r-rl 
(leon n &IFage porota-nd Il-enlrth.h; 1960, 190an1961dora.                                           oknuecco.tIItoIo:  o00   nco   ao  tblocnI                            Inoho
nccoseftetxacer )ncrnn~.nO noolatcon  - toel, ocan, un  coral-                      oloco localy ahoo leIlec ylu OssdO halin----o   rrqci-cencoho no
seotneree lIstAu rencthines  0 conIcneare-ld -e Itcalnon.  -n n                               -exonancnc-n  Inc  -ooc.         Oor  trd   -00crh.   t-nro   oc 
the doy ho fe~tchn   ohs luc    t' aua   no"s
O eps    n   oretge-  nf their roeom    doolson.torc A                    -ysl
h-ro -noc-aooddnr-ao               raaclo-etoctcto?c-ccuo    cor:   r   -rl)eclo-  ZlPr-nn
prhctra  ondss:o   in6cl.Lonhr.-



25 -
Annex I
Page 4
GNP PER CAPITA:  US$280 (1982)  1/
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1978    1979       1980    1981       1982
(Million So. Sh)
Total Revenue                                    890    1420    1526       1421    2262       2687
Current Expenditure                             802    1362    1573        1670    2795       2880
Current Surplus or Deficit (-)                    88      58      -47     -249    -532        -193
Other Expenditures2/                            820    1010    1671        1402     587       1854
Overall Deficit                                  732     952    1718       1657    1119       2047
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1978    1979      1980 3/   1981            1982
(Million US Dollars)              (Pr. Est.)
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)                      109      106      133        114            131
Merchadise Imports (c.i.f.)3/                    -275    -394      -461       -442           -461
Trade Balance                                   -166    -288       -328       -308           -310
Services, Net                                      -5     -12        -8         19             19
Private Transfers, Net                             28      36        57         64             11
Current Account Balance                         -193    -264       -279       -225           -310
Direct Investment                                  -        -         -         -               -
Official Grant Aid                                 78      58       143        148            155
Private Net                                         -       4         -          -              -
Official, Net                                      79      84        87         73             99
Errors and Omissions                                7      19        21         -9            -19
Overall Balance                                    21     -99       -28        -13            -37
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From 1973 to June 1981 - US$1.00=6.295
From July 1, 1981, Somalia had a dual exchange rate:
US$1.00 = 6.295 (for essential imports)
US$1.00 = 12.59 (all other foreign transactions)
From July 1, 1982        -  US$1.00=15.22 (unified)
From July 1, 1983        -  US$1.00=15.22 (a managed float)
Plus 25% premium on emigrants' remittances.
Latest (Dec. 1, 1983)  -  US$1.00=17.58
1/ Based on tentative estimates of National Accounts recently prepared by EPD.
2/ Includes mainly development expenditure largely financed from external assistance.
3/ The import data for 1978 and 1979 include Franco Valuta imports.
NIarclh 1984



Annex I
- 26 -                                   Page 5
MONEY, CREDITS AND PRICES
Dec.     Dec.      Dec.      Dec.         Dec.          Dec.
1977     1978      1979      1980         1981          1982
(Million So. Sh.)
Bank Claims on Government (Net)    -97.8    311.1   1,231.3   1,902.4    2,249.6              2,100.0
Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Enterprises            1,280.7  1,404.6   1,725.8   1,977.2    2,296.0           2,923.8
Money Supply                        1,325.1  1,728.0   2,335.2   2,783.2    3,674.0           4,108.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
General Price Index (1977=100)        100.0    110.0    136.2         217.1       313.2          388.7
Annual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                   9.8      10.0      23.8        59.4        44.3          24.2
Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Enterprises               29.8       9.7      22.9        14.6        16.1          27.3
Money Supply                           33.2      30.4      35.1        19.2        32.0           11.8
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Average 1977-79             1980                    1981
US$ Mln.      %        US$ Mln.       %         US$ Mln.    %
Livestock                              71.2       74.5        101.6         76.2         97.7      85.8
Bananas                                 9.8       10.3          8.1          6.1          6.0       5.3
Meat and Meat Products                  2.1        2.2           1.0         0.7          0.3       0.3
Hides and Skins                         5.8        6.0           6.6         5.0          2.0       1.7
Fish and Fish Products                  1.5        1.6          0.3          0.2          1.0       0.8
Others                                  5.2        5.4         15.6         11.7          6.9       6.1
Total                                  95.6      100.0          133.3      100.0        113.9    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT
US$ Mln.
Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1982)1/         1,369.5
(of which disbursed)                 (991.6)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                      %
Public Debt 1982 (estimate)            27.0
(incl. arrears)
IDA LENDING (March 30, 1984)         US$ Mln.
Outstanding and Disbursed             134.50
Undisbursed                            59.90
Outstanding inc. Undisbursed          194.40
1/ Excludes undisbursed commitments from East European countries, totalling US$154 million,
which are not expected to be disbursed any further.
March 1984



- 27 -                          ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 30, 1984) 1/
IDA    Undisbursed
No.    Year   Borrower                Borrower                        (US$ Million)
Ten Credits have been fully disbursed                              64.6
623-SO  1976   Somalia             Drought Rehabilitation           8.0        0.34
635-SO  1976   Somalia             North-West Agriculture          10.0        0.62
698-SO  1977   Somalia             Somali Development Bank          5.0        0.48
699-SO  1977   Somalia             Third Highway
(Hargeisa-Borama)               7.0        2.58
738-SO  1977   Somalia             Third Education                 8.0         1.64
821-SO  1978   Somalia             Technical Assistance             3.0        0.92
838-SO  1978   Somalia             Fourth Port                      5.5        0.21
905-SO  1979   Somalia             Agriculture Extension           10.5        6.04
906-SO  1979   Somalia             Central Rangelands               8.0        3.68
972-SO  1979   Somalia             Bay Agriculture                 12.0        9.69
1043-SO 1980   Somalia             Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                       6.0        1.38
1105-SO 1981   Somalia             Fourth Education               10.2 2/    6.56
1236-SO 1982   Somalia             Second Mog. Water Supply       15.0 2/    5.33
1324-SO 1983   Somalia             Fourth Highway                 23.0 2/   20.43
TOTAL                         195.8       59.90
of which has been repaid        1.4
TOTAL now held by IDA         194.4
TOTAL Undisbursed                         59.90
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
2/  Credits approved in SDRs; principal and undisbursed amounts expressed in US
dollars equivalent, computed at the March 30, 1984 exchange rate.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment
(As of March 30, 1984)
Fiscal                                                   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year              Obligor                               Loan    Equity    Total
1981               Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.              0.375     -         0.375
Total gross commitments              0.375      -         0.375
less cancellations, terminations,  0.054        -         0.054
Total now held by IFC                0.321      -         0.321



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                     January/February 1981
(b)  Time taken to prepare              18 months
project:
(c)  Preparation by:                    Government, FAO, IFC and
IDA
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                 February/March 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations         January 1984
(f) Planned date for Credit
Effectiveness:                    July 1984
Section II.  Special IDA Implementation Actions
A US$550,000 advance under the Project Preparation Facility
was approved in July 1982 to cover foreign exchange costs of a
corporate feasibility study, some initial technical
assistance, vehicles and equipment and start-up costs of the
Fisheries Company.
Section III. Special Conditions
a) Effectiveness:
- Provision by Somalia of a 23 meter fiberglass
combination fishing vessel to the Fisheries Company
(para 40, II); and
- Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and the Fisheries Enterprise (para. 45).
- Signing of the funding agreement between DANIDA and
Somalia for the construction of the cold storage
facility at Berbera (para 54);



- 30 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
b) Disbursement:
- No disbursements would be made for vessels prior to the
employment of consultants for carrying out the Inshore
Artisanal Fisheries part of the project (para 47) and
the US$3.5 million from the Arab Fund being made
available to the enterprise.
c) Other:
- Repayment period of the Government loan by Fisheries
Enterprise would be determined following the completion
of a future financing plan (para. 45).
- The Fisheries Enterprise would (re)purchase the
fishermen's boats at cost in case the artisanal
component would not be viable (para. 49).



IBRD 17262
ARAB REP OP\  \LJAE''                           ~~~~~~~~~~46                              4R                                                                                2. JUNE 19B3
1  EGYPT   <  <  SAUDI   .                                        SOMAELA
AlABIA                                            SoM       LI
r              K'^.\\X  y,D<0--r            FISHERIES EXPLORATION / P LOT PROJECT
j  SUDANY   - \                                             PROJECT  :LOCATION
J 4, ETHIOPIA 9-4f,;tAYon  MAp                             rcOQct ?frea and opprpximo:e lrreci
~~~~*  R,~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~of o fs,hre operotions
-_ <   / g= Metalled roads 
ZAIRE                                                                Cnusr, 10a, Co;tour     erval!
~~(KE NY\0-   t0;A                               l2OnmeerfSr Fu
RWANDA                                                              Interno'ioricit Boundpries
<BLJRUNDJ     ~~~SEYCHELLES
I{ TANZANIAN        T2                ~ ~~~~~ ~~~0 50,  100       150      20AluaMT
E T H I O P~~~~~~~~~~~~I     A\A-                                                                   : (     \         -      = :      -     H    .. .~_   
44 )
DJIUIBOUT
-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-
/         '~~~~~~ Lnghoyo~ ~ ~~~/                         
Berbera                                                                                                                             oo
logeiso ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BSender Besla  on'' pbayps
0000   POplpnoOJd ,Il
ETHIOPIA0?ap?nn50 P






IBRD 172a
4'4-                                                 48                                                     JUNE 1983
/-V  X                             g   U9J,f   / f        f         A  j'-'' a                                            t
./EDJ IBOU 
~~i)             o~~~AK'~0                                                          Lo Elayuo  0Bossaso               rgl
A,                  jf}                   ,                        }'Khom
' o- y tndes Beila
SOMALIA                                             -8
FISHERIES EXPLORATION / PILOT PROJECT                                                     .7
DISTRIBUTION OF DEMERSAL AND PELAGIC FISH ON THE
SOMALIA COAST DURING THE NORTHEAST MONSOON, 1975-76/
School__Density.: 
very scattered                  Rivers
scattered                       Regional Boundaries          /
dense                 - -    International Boundaries,-
/                         ~~~~~~~~~bb,a1X
Thn -oo h-s hbe prepar- by
The, W-rld esvsstf  hois
/hr h onoheis ho of sth
re~adr -od is sXoIhhsyO For tee
iI cnternal hoe -i The WMOGADISCIOrldf                                                                                /    P-    T     W
'k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    -~~~~~~~~~sd is- In-isi-hoo Plono..
Coprto.The d-noniirati4ii
hoe a-d fhe ho-id-rs show
|                                                                                                               Os  ida   mop<:  do  so Ui   soN  -  -he
V,                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pant of The World Peek and the
'1            (2                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~loi-arnshl F-n-nc Crosrah-r,
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD \ARAI,                                                                        ,A
-cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 jiprs on- the tealhs i
s op  ts doo  or-   an30. i O
)Wk   ,/  0                  100                 200 MlLES                 j  ,,< vcto o        t/               .  :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edosenel r dhpiOc o
Merco                               SUDAN ~~~~~~~~~SADIARAB  IA
44-TANZANIAETHiCPIA
iO 200        300 KILOMETERS              UGANDA                        4 0Moodiscio
KENYA
0             100~~~~~o'          200 MILES                       i/ 
Lonec- /00,/rifle oP M-r/ne Research, Bergen 
TANZANIA 
44.                                                     8






IBRD 17264
4'4-                                                       'JUNE 1983
/'l_''/f          44                         C;S  Li:    ,.                      'tyL
.'BJIBOu  I                                                                                                                   (2
(r                   DJIBOUTI
g),   Ze*80                                           _ o  ~to  E                  =       Crndolo.
N.    ?                        ,    _/htZ,7J                           Kh-eh
A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
SOMALIA                                                                                                                                  8
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/ PILOT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF DEMERSAL AND PELAGIC FISH ON THE
SOMALIA COAST DURING THE SOUTHWEST MONSOON, 1975 
ver   sctee           -.'-er Rivers                                                                                               _   
School Density:                                                       ./
L\\1   very scattered               - -Rivers                                    /,
scattered                   -      Regional Boundaries            /
dense              -- International Boundarle,y
E   T   H   I   O   P  I  A                                                                            Ob,o
Th.  p h-e   o b   prped by
Th. World Sa,,k' staff -hssi-e5
-raders and iserdsiett fr the
as ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,ntss -oe at The WbWr B.s*
sod the Wstesa-.1e F,o-ssl
corporsso  The dssOssss-os 4
ised end the bOisdris shows,
a.    tsm rap do ro ,py,. on the
*  "                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~part of Th. World Bs-k aod the
S /   i                                        ,f                   ,{*                                                     k,tnerkahosal Fsoo. corporatihs,
)                                                                                            so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay ;odgroet P the les.' Stews
Pt SP ftOoy WN r,asy
+_  /   p                        ;                    y                                                        e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndrorseosent oe acceptance ot
/ r'X  9                                                            >  .      SAUDI ARABIA
OMAN
/                                                    J'                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '   EE
ca                                      /     MOGADISCIC                                                         r s      O    ,f-         / PODR.
I ,    >  <r>/rca                                         S 5 UDAN                    AA 8''  ,BMEN  OEMBN
~~~~'a,                                                lArBov                                                       S ON              '>-      ARA
ETHIOPIA I       EA )
0]                  '      0                                                                                        otk~;-..                            s
*              >~~~~K:ssoyo                                                                                     UGAN AJ "I. b'aaar (                f
|  ,/                      0            100           200          300 KILOMETERS                   GAND       KENYA    !            Modscio
Q / 0                100                   200 MILES                      ('.',
eSovrsce  /nstrtste of Mapisse Raoesoch   ega                          '                                      ..
A44                                                         48'           TANZANIA            '



