Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4658-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
April 9, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
|  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)  =  100 cents
US$1.00
Up to June 30, 1981      =  So.Sh. 6.295
July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1982          =  A dual exchange rate with:
=  So.Sh.  6.295 (for essential imports)
=  So.Sh. 12.590 (for all other foreign
transactions)
July 1, 1982             =  So.Sh. 15.227
October 24, 1983         =  So.Sh. 17.58
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CIF      -   Cost, Insurance and Freight
DANIDA   -   Danish International Development Agency
FAO      -   Food and Agricultural Organization
FOB      -   Free on Board
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GOS      -   Government of Somalia
GRP      -   Glass Reinforced Plastic
IBRD     -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -   International Development Association
IFC      -   International Finance Corporation
NORAD    -   Norwegian Agency for International Development
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
SDB      -   Somali Development Bank
SIDA     -   Swedish International Development Authority
UNCDF    -   United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ....................................        1
II.   FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR ..........................1......... 
Background  ........                                             1 , ,. ......  I
Artisanal Fisheries.                                             2
Fish Production, Processing and Marketing.                       3
Commercial Fisheries.                                            5
Fish Resources.                                                 5
Fisheries Administration and Government Policy.                  6
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                 7
Existing Infrastructure         ..                               8
Project Marketing          ..                                   9
Related North Coast Development       .        .                 9
Project Formulation          ..                                 9
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                      11
Project Objective  .........11
Project Description         .....................    11
Detailed Features    ..12
Project Costs   ..16
Proposed Financing    ..17
Procurement   ..19
Disbursement           ........................   20
Accounts and Audit      .................. ...................    20
Environmental Effects  .............. .. ..................    21
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............................   21
Enterprise        ..............................................    21
Project Implementation .................................    22
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation      .      .26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, composed of
Messrs. B.H. Falconer, L.M. Sprague (IBRD), C. Hamlin, Y.N. Kim and R.L.
Payne (consultants), that visited the project area in February/March 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VI.     PRODUCTION,  MARKETING  AND  PRICES   ........................                           27
Artisanal    ...............................................                            27
Offshore  Fishery   ........................................                            28
VII.   BENEFITS,  JUSTIFICATION AND  RISKS   .......................                             29
Project Benefits ................                                                       29
Project  Justification   ...................................                            30
Risks .           ...................................................   31
Long-Term Development    ...................................                            31
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS   .........................................                               33
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table  1.   Project  Cost  Summary
2.   Percentage  Rates  of  Inflation
3.   Proposed Financing  Plan
4.   Financing  for Different  Categories  of Works,
Goods and Services
5.   Schedule  of Disbursement  by  Categories



ANNEXES TO STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Page No.
ANNEX   I:  Fish Resource Estimates .............................  35
II   Terms of Reference - General Manager .36
- Financial Controller .36
- Consultants, Artisanal Fisheries.  37
- Consultants, Offshore Fisheries..  39
III   Financial Analysis - Supplementary Tables
1. Summary Account by Project Component ..........    42
2. Cash Flow Projection for Motorized Fishing Boat ...  43
3. Enterprise - Inshore Fisheries,
Profit and Loss Statement.                                  44
4. Enterprise - Inshore Fisheries Processing
Cost Per Ton .45
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .46
IV  Data Available In Project File .47
V   Table of Contents of Implementation Volume .48
VI   Charts
1.  Organization Chart - Ministry of Fisheries ....    49
2.  Organization Chart - Enterprise ...... 50
3.  Implementation Schedule - By Task ....    51
4.  Implementation Schedule - By Post ....    52
MAPS
Map of Somalia with Project Location (No. 17262)
Map of Somalia with Fish Densities, Northeast Monsoon (No. 17263)
Map of Somalia with Fish Densities, Southwest Monsoon (No. 17264)






SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION!PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.01      Somalia is located in the northeastern corner of Africa, bordered
by Ethiopia and Kenya to the west and south and the G-ilf of Aden and the
Indian Ocean to the north and east (Map IBRD No. 17262). The length of the
coastline is about 3,000 kilometers, and the land area is about 60 million
hectares. The topography consists mainly of plateaus broken by chains of
rugged mountains in the north which are especially prominent near the
project area.
1.02      Somalia is amongst the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country.  Per capita
income was estimated to be below US$300 in 1981. Not only is it among the
poorest, but the general lack of infrastructure--physical and
institutional--and the hostile physical environment, poor communications,
lack of modern transportation systems and scattered population centers have
created a serious obstacle to development of the country.
1.03      About 60% of the labor force are nomads and semi-nomads who
depend on livestock for their subsistence, about 20% are settled rural
dwellers and 20% are urban dwellers.  The economy is dominated by the
livestock sector which provides a living to the large nomadic population
and generates about half of the GDP. Exports of live animals represent
about 80% of total exports. Crop production which contributes about 7% of
exports is small but growing. Fish and fish products account for about 3%
of exports and their share of GDP does not exceed 2%. The present
importance of fisheries within the overall economy is small. There are
about 2,000 full-time and 7,000 part-time fishermen engaged mostly in
artisanal fishing.
1.04      The Agricultural Sector Report of 1981 (Report Nos 2881a-SO)
emphasizes the need to strengthen and develop certain key areas of the
sector. Important are those activities which generate increased production
and exports in the short-run. The sector strategy calls for development of
underutilized resources (including activating sunk capital), the expansion
of private sector incentives and opportunities and the establishment of
additional export markets to increase foreign exchange earnings.
II.  FISHERIES SUBSECTOR
Background
2.01      Along the Gulf of Aden, the coast typically consists of long
stretches of sandy beach, interriupted at intervals by rocky outcrops and



- 2 -
cliffs. There is a lack of natural harbors. The seasons of the coastal
plains are governed by the southwest monsoon (June to September) and the
northeast monsoon (November to March). Average annual temperatures vary
between 27°C and 32°C and peak temperatures may exceed 40°C on the north
coast. Water supplies are sparse and scattered.
2.02      The continental shelf is narrow and generally extends up to about
10 miles out to sea. Research shows a high level of biological
productivity in Somalia's coastal waters, particularly of the fishing
grounds in the project area (IBRD Map No. 17263 and 17264).
2.03      Adverse natural conditions that hamper a fuller exploitation of
the known fisheries resources in the project area include: lack of natural
harbors; a continental shelf which is too narrow and too rough to be
suitable for large scale trawling; and uncertainties about seasonal
variations in distribution and abundance of fish resources. The absence of
an adequate physical and institutional infrastructure has also hampered
development. There are virtually no landing facilities, ice plants, chill
storage, or workshops for engine and boat repair to serve the traditional
fishing communities. Only Berbera has a commercial deep water harbor with
full port facilities. Although several cold storage and processing
facilities have been established over a number of years, all of them, with
the exception of those being refurbished in the south, are in a rundown
condition (para. 2.13)
2.04      Fish currently plays a very minor role in the diet of the
people. Average per capita consumption based on the present landing and
disposal pattern is around 0.5 kg. But there is clear evidence, from the
growth of the Mogadishu fish market, that there is an unsatisfied demand
for fish, which is growing with urbanization and the rising price of meat
which currently retails at three to seven times the price of fish.
Artisanal Fisheries
2.05      Coastal artisanal fishing is an established tradition in
Somalia.  Production is primarily for a small traditional barter export
trade in dried-salt fish which has been carried out by dhows calling at
fishing villages scattered along the coast. Poor mountain roads restrict
access both to and from the majority of these isolated fishing villages in
the north, especially in the project area.
2.06      Along the north coast, the traditional fishing zone extends up to
about ten miles seaward. The smaller boats seldom venture farther than
about three miles; while the mechanized boats operate around six to ten
miles from their base. In the Gulf of Aden, fishing is carried out mainly
in the period October through May; fishing stops almost completely during
the hot monsoon period between June and September. Because of high winds,
there are also days of no fishing during the months of December and
January.
2.07      Some 7,000 fishermen are members of cooperatives that were set up
during the 1970s and are administered by the Department of Cooperative
Development in the Ministry of Fisheries. They were originally conceived



- 3 -
as organ izati of-,s whlereby fishermen join together for thle hand,:ng ann
marketing of catches as well as for the ourchase of fishing boats9 gear and
other items they mighn  require,  In practice, however, the cooperatives
have no financial responsibility for the mechanized boats, gear and other
equipment which was purchased by the Ministry and given free to the
fishermr,en.  The fishermen are skillful and hardworking, but traditionally
hold a low position in the social structure.
2.08       In Somalia the artisanal fishing fleet includes fcor types of
boats-the traditional paddle canoe or sail houri, the sail plank boat, the
inboard engined fiberglass canoe, and the inboard engined timber or
fiberglass boat. There are about 300 mechanized boats currently in
operating condition; although the total number introduced in the artisanal
fishery within the last decade was more than twice this number.  The
rfailure to keep these boats operational was caused by the lack of foreign
exchange for spare parts and the skills and facilities for maintenance and
repair.  These difficulties are being partially addressed by a boatyard in
Mogadishu financed by SIDA id in 1978. The glass reinforced plastics
(GRP) company builds small quantities of 6e4 m, 8.5 m and 10 m. fishing
boats of European design. The yard is well laid out and fully equipped.
'Unlike traditional craft, the mechanized boat has several advantages,
namely, greater mobility, diversification of fishing techniques, greater
fishing power, and capacity to use ice, all of which would help increase
the catch but need to be supported by regular maintenance and other service
facilities. The common fishing gear employed from the boats are
hand-lines, long-lines, gill nets and beach seines.
2.09       Ice, which is the vital element in the handling and preservation
of high quality fish, is totally lacking in the project area and is only
available in the country at Kismayo and Mogadishu. Landing facilities or
sheltered anchorages in the project area are available only atBossaso and
Habo. The mechanized boats, in places where there are no landing
facilities, unload their catch outside the surf zone and the catch is
carried ashore by workers who wade through the surf, At times of rough
water, unloading of the catch becomes difficult and losses are sometimes
substantial. Canoes land their catch on the beach.
Fish Production, Processing and Marketing
210      Fish Production.  Data on artisanal fish production itdicates a
catc  of about 4,500 tons per year during the first part of the 1960s.  By
1968 it reached 5,000 tons.  With the introduction of some 700 mechanized
boats from 1972 onwards, annual landings increased until they reached a
peak of almost 8,000 tons.  After that, production fell again to the 1982
landings of about 4,000 tons because many of the new boats w7ere unable to
be operated lacking spare part , and maintenance facilities,
2e11       TI the absence of ice plants and cold storage fac Ilties along
most of the coast, almost half of the total annual catch of the artisanal
landings is sun-dried and salted, mostly for export. In 1980 the National
Fish Factory at Kismayo bought about 6% of landings for export in frozen
form; the canning plants at Las Koreh and Habo/Candala utilized about 18%;
about 20% were used for fresh fish consumption mainly in tiogadishu; about
5% consumed by hired fishermen directly as payment in kind and unrecorded



-4-
exports of fresh fish to Djibouti and Kenya are estimated to total
about 4%.
2.12      Fish Processing.  The traditional fish products made in the
country are: salted shark and other salted fish products; Haniid, a local
salted and smoked specialty made from tuna and sailfish, and dried shark
fins.
2.13      Fish processing for sale to the modern sector is confined to
three canneries in the north and a freezing plant at Kismayo in the south.
Canned tuna and good quality mackerel are primarily intended for the
Italian market, while canned sardines and some canned mackerel are for the
domestic market.  The intermittently operated small canneries at Candala
and Habo are jointly owned by the Government (51%) and an Italian company
(49%). The main reason for the recent poor performance of the canneries is
said to be a fish supply problem attributed to lack of suitable boats. But
the poor performance is much more likely related to changes in the world
market for fuel, tinplate, lower tuna prices and problems with obtaining
foreign exchange needed for operation of the plants. Prior to this, these
canneries were operated successfully for almost 40 to 50 years. The
cannery at Las Koreh is fully Government owned. This plant, with a
designed capacity of 20,000 cans per day, is beyond reasonable
refurbishment; it lacks protected landing facilities and it appears
incorrectly located in respect to the main fishing grounds. The
justification for its location and capacity is difficult to perceive and it
is, therefore, difficult to draw any meaningful conclusion from this
venture. In addition, there is a 1,200-ton cold store at Bolimog built in
1966, which is in reasonably good condition but which has not been operated
for several years.
2.14      Marketing.  All of the catches landed by the artisanal boats are
sold to the cooperatives, the coastal settlement projects or the
canneries. Because of the lack of ice and the absence of roads linking
many centers of production with centers of potential consumption, there is
no organized market for fresh fish except around the main towns. Of the
total 24 cooperatives and settlements only six are engaged in the fresh
fish trade as these are adjacent to a larger consumption center.
2.15      According to earlier Government policy, retailing of fish was
theoretically a monopoly of the cooperatives and the settlements, and the
private sector was discouraged from the fish trade. Recent changes in
Government policy to encourage the private sector have resulted in a
growing number of traders and retail shops entering the fish trade in a
small way (para 2.27).
2.16      Salted fish is sold by tender to private traders, who export to
Kenya and Tanzania. Those villages close to Djibouti and Kenya have
small lucrative markets. Thus, fishermen from Zeila and Ras Chiamboni sell
part or whole of their catch at high prices direct to traders from
neighboring areas. There is a strong demand for the lobsters purchased and
prepared by the National Fish Factory which are exported to Italy frozen
and the frozen fish from the factory sold to Saudi Arabia. Haniid is sold
in urban towns by private traders and to the dhow export trade.



-5-
Commercial Fisheries
2.17      Commercial deep-sea trawling off Somalia started in 1974 when the
Somali/Soviet joint venture-company Somalfish was first established.
Fishing was carried out by a fleet of ten Russian freezer trawlers until
late 1977 when the partnership was dissolved. The total catch of the
Russian fleet over some four years was about 10,000 tons of fish and 4,000
tons of lobsters; unfortunately, no detailed records of catch per vessel,
or sizes of gear used are available. Following the Russian departure,
catches fell dramatically, but efforts have been made to re-establish a
Somali offshore fishing capability through joint ventures with recent catch
levels of about 14,000 tons per year, consisting mainly of demersal
species.'/ The catch is not generally landed in Somalia, but the high
valued species are processed and trans-shipped directly to foreign markets.
2.18      The open ocean and trawlable resources of the Gulf of Aden and
the adjacent coastal shelves of the Indian Ocean states of Oman, South
Yemen and Somalia have been the subject of significant commercial
explotation by distant water fishing vessels (both licensed and unlicensed)
from a number of countries. These vessels have concentrated primarily on
the most valuable species--lobster, cuttlefish, and the larger snappers,
bream, etc. Present catch rates for these species and the high cost of
fuel supplies cast some doubt on the degree to which present trawling
effort can be expanded.
2.19      Present and committed fishing effort in Somali waters for
commercial exploitation of offshore demersal species is, therefore,
believed to represent about the maximum order of magnitude of such
efforts. No substantial opportunities for the expansion of a fleet of
deep-sea trawlers appears to be justified at this time.
Fish Resources
2.20      Data gathered by fishery research vessels in the area, the most
notable being that of the FAO/NORAD survey vessel R.V. Fridtjof Nansen, has
led to the best available estimates of stock resources by species (Maps
IBRD No. 17263 and 17264). These data, analyzed by the Fisheries Research
Institute at Bergen, Norway, indicate good availability of pelagic
stocks and estimated potential annual catches in the area are detailed in
Annex I.
2.21      Estimates of catch are conservative and reflect only a small
fraction of the fish stocks identified. The major resources are clearly
the small pelagic species which have been located off the north and
northeast coast. Of the sardines, the most abundant and most widely
distributed species is the Indian oil sardine. Various mackerels are known
1/ Demersal fish are bottom living species such as grouper, snappers,
lobsters, etc. Pelagic fish are at the surface of mid water and
include species such as sardines, herring, anchovies, tunas, etc.



- 6 -
to be present; horse mackerels had been caught in both the western and
eastern parts of the Indian Ocean; Indian mackerel is known to be widely
distributed in the Arabian Sea along the coast from Africa to India; and
king mackerel are commonly caught by Somali fishermen in gill nets and by
hook and line.
2.22      Of the large pelagic species, the yellowfin tuna and the
king mackerel are by far the most important in commercial terms. The
yellowfin forms the basis of Somalia's small-scale tuna canning industry on
the north coast and dried/salted king mackerel is important to the
fisheries on both the north and east coasts.
2.23      Pelagic stocks in the project area have been estimated to be
capable of yielding annual catches of the order of 50,000 to 100,000 tons.
These estimates emerge from historical catches, visual sightings and
scientific data available from research vessels. At the same time, it is
recognized by experienced observers that the stocks, mainly sardine, king
mackerel and tuna, are subject to considerable fluctuations in abundance
both from year to year and place to place; and it is poor experience with
the cycle of years involving tuna, only one species of the above species
mix, which is, at least in part, responsible for the decline in canned tuna
production. Tuna are believed to be in considerable abundance but, in some
years, they may not have migrated into the limited range of the fishing
vessels operating from beach landing places in Somalia.
2.24      Because no successful modern commercial fishery has been
conducted on any of these species, it is recognized that the first attempts
have to be exploratory in nature and be expanded only as more experience
and data are gained. Because the known small pelagic resources are
considerable and the large pelagic tuna and king mackerel have high unit
values, the long-term development of these resources could be of vast
importance to Somalia's economy. Once catch rates and profitability are
established, the future progression of industry development would be the
phased purchase of purse seine fishing vessels and the development of
Bolimog harbor as the main fish landing for fisheries development in the
country.
2.25      Fish resources available to the artisanal fishery have not been
estimated. Records of landings indicate that present production levels
could be increased substantially (para. 2.10). At present, the main
species landed are dictated by availabile markets for fishermen. In the
South where markets exist both domestically and for export, landings
consist mainly of snappers, groupers and lobsters. However, in the North,
the catch is mainly restricted to shark and king mackerel, and tuna when
the canneries are working. There are good indications, from the period
when the fisheries where assisted by Russia and an active hook and line
fishery took place, that other high valued demersal species are available
on the north coast.
Fisheries Administration and Government Policy
2.26      The Ministry of Fisheries, with its headquarters in Mogadishu,
was created as a separate Ministry in 1977. Prior to this, it was
incorporated with the Ministry of Marine Transport. There are two Director



- 7 -
Generals: one responsible for operations (training, development and
research); and the other, for administration (finance, general services and
personnel) (see Annex VI, Chart 1). However, about a third of the senior
posts are vacant due to a lack of suitably qualified personnel. The
financial resources of the Ministry are small and there is heavy reliance
on foreign assistance. The Ministry is responsible for deep-sea industrial
operations organized through licensing agreements or joint ventures,
fishing cooperatives, the fish factory in the south, marketing and cold
storage operations in Mogadishu, the canning plants on the north coast and
the resettlement centers which are administered through the Coastal
Development Agency. There are no extension services except those organized
through ongoing foreign funded projects. Input supplies of boats, fishing
gear, and spare parts (mainly provided through bilateral aid programs) were
distributed by the Ministry of Fisheries to the fishing cooperatives and
resettlement centers but changes in policy are bringing these programs to a
close.
2.27      The strategy of the five-year development plan (1982-86) calls
for modifications of fisheries policy including: privatization of vessel
ownership; abolition of the fixed price system for fish marketing;
liberalization of trade in fish and fish products; cessation of free supply
of boats and gear, and rechanneling of export and royalty earnings for
import purchases of needed spares and equipment.  Institutional changes are
also required to improve the organization and management of fisheries. In
pursuit of these activities, the Ministry of Fisheries recognizes the need
for Government to relinquish its control over those activities which are
better suited to commercial disciplines and the private sector. As a first
stage, the Ministry of Fisheries has created two Government owned but
autonomous enterprises--Somalia GRP Products Company, for the manufacture
of boats and other products associated with the requirements of the coastal
fishery and Somalia Marine Products Company, for implementation of the
inshore fisheries program in the lower Juba Region.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The Project area located in the eastern part of the north coast
along the Gulf of Aden would include the districts of Alula, Candala and
Bossaso, with project headquarters at Bolimog in the Alula district and the
offshore fishing waters (IBRD Map No. 17262).  The project area is
dominated by mountain ranges running north from the interior to the coast
and forming headlands in some instances up to 1,000 m high. Between these
headlands, the coast is almost unbroken with sandy beaches in front of
barren scrubland. Fishing villages are located along this coast at points
of limited shelter. No harbors exist. The fishing villages of Ghesselei
in Alula district, Elayu in Bossaso district and at Candala would be the
focus for fishing in the project area (see IBRD Map No. 17262).
3.02      In the project area, there are about 150 full-time and 400
part-time fishermen. There are 350 canoes and 60 mechanized boats but only
about half of them are capable of fishing for the project. At the present
time, many of the existing fishing boats are used for non-fishing purposes,
for example, transport of livestock, commodities and passengers. Some of



the fishing boats are operated in support of the small canning factories at
Habo and Candala when they are working. Other fishing boats operate in
support of the subsistence catch of fish and dried fish trade. The vast
majority of the inhabitants of the project area are extraordinarily poor
and fishery development represents the only real opportunity for poverty
alleviation.
3.03      The area is extremely poor in natural resources except for fish
which has rich underexploited stocks of both demersal and pelagic species
on nearby fishing grounds. These resources are presently underutilized due
to limited marketing facilities. The artisanal fishermen cannot
consistently exploit these pelagic species because the schools move rapidly
up and down the coast and more importantly move offshore where it is too
far and too dangerous for the existing small boats to go. Despite the
narrow continental shelf and rough trawling grounds which make large-scale
trawling impractical for demersal species, small fishing boats fishing in
the untrawlable areas with hook and line catch excellent sized demersal
fish of superb quality.
Existing Infrastructure
3.04      The Bolimog cold storage complex was completed in 1966 and is
currently administered by the Somali Development Bank (SDB). The factory
facilities include several sizeable prefabricated buildings as well as
concrete block offices and houses and also include a food store, carpenter
shop, boat repair and storage area, a fish meal plant, engine room and
maintenance shop, fishing gear store and a diesel fuel depot.
3.05      Considerable work by Government's consultants has been done to
survey the state of existing plant and the condition of much of the
machinery is regarded as derelict. Because the requirements of a pilot
scale plant are considerably less than the designed installed capacity, no
attempt would be made to rely on existing equipment beyond part of the
electrical generating equipment known to be operable, part of the sea water
system and the storage capacity of the diesel fuel depot.
3.06      However, most of the buildings are in good or repairable
condition briefly summarized below:
The main factory building is in a good condition. The external
wall and roof, steel cladding requires some minor repairs. The floors in
the processing area and the holding room are in a poor state of repair and
do not comply with the requirements of a modern fish factory and require
resurfacing. The office building has six offices for the management and
administration staff of the plant. The building is in reasonable
condition; the roofs and walls need some repairs. Staff housing consists
of 8 bungalows for senior management and technical staff and 24 smaller
houses for factory personnel. The houses for the management and technical
staff are in poor condition, not only caused by lack of maintenance but
also due to faulty construction of the roofs and would need to be replaced
in the course of making other repair. The houses for the factory personnel
appear to be in better condition and require only minor repair.



3.07      Jetties and Landing Places.  There are two jetties in Bossaso.  A
wooden jetty, which was built in 1967, and a wooden topped structure on
steel piles, which was built in 1956. The wooden jetty is used as the main
customs pier. It has a length of 160 m, a width of 6 m and a mean tide
depth of 1.5 m. The other jetty, although in better structural condition,
is experiencing considerable sand buildup at the seaward end, making it
difficult to utilize. There are small landing places at Habo estuary and
Bolimog which are currently used at high tide by an existing landing craft.
Project Marketing
3.08      Almost the entire catch by project fishermen would be exported.
At full development there may be a small and growing local market. As
discussed in paras. 2.14 to 2.16, Government pricing policies are becoming
more favorable to private sector involvement in local marketing. However,
during the project period, these policies are unlikely to have any impact
on project marketing activities because the bulk of product production is
intended for export.
Related North Coast Development
3.09      Fishing activities on the north coast outside the project area
are limited to locations where markets are available. On the
Somalia/Djibouti border at Zeila, there is a active export trade by
fishermen. The market is highly remunerative but is small and transitory.
The only other significant area of activity is around Berbera where the
catch is closely linked to satisfying the small local market demand. The
total market for fresh fish in these circumstance amounts to less than 300
tons per annum.
3.10      Government places high priority on fisheries development for the
north coast of Somalia and the importance of the fisheries projects to be
financed by UNCDF and DANIDA at Berbera and to the west. The UNCDF funded
project would support inshore fishing activities between Berbera and the
Djibouti border. The object of the project is to open up alternative
export markets which would be more stable than those which now exist. The
DANIDA funded project would provide a 400-ton cold storage facility at
Berbera. This would provide a focus for export and some small domestic
sales. Input to the cold storage would be provided by fishermen from both
the UNCDF funded project to the west and the proposed IDA project to the
east.
Project Formulation
3.11      The 1981 Somalia Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 2881a-SO)
identified the potential importance of the fisheries subsector to the
country. The subsector is still largely underdeveloped not only because of
environmental and infrastructure obstacles, but also because of inadequate
subsector strategy and financial and manpower constraints. As a result of
the Sector Review, and at the request of the Government, FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program sent a mission to Somalia in January 1981 to identify a
fisheries development project. The project identified followed a rather
traditional approach to the development of artisanal fisheries, almost



- lo -
entirely relying on existing Government institutions, oriented to the
public sector and therefore, unlikely to lead to sound future development.
3.12      Subsequently, the Bank and IFC sent a mission to Somalia in March
1982 to identify ways in which better aid coordination in the fisheries
sector and greater private sector involvement in a possible project could
be achieved. Government also fielded a large mission of commercially
oriented consultants to prepare a number of possible options and make
recommendations regarding the project scope, concept, location and
technical elements. Further meetings were held with Government and other
interested parties in June and July 1982 to discuss various options for
project concept and design. The concept and design which emerged from
Government's consultants was seen as having legally separate but integrated
private sector Somali companies to develop the exploitation of the North
Somali fish resources. The companies proposed were to be owned by
Government, international financial institutions, Somali private business
interests and a foreign technical partner.
3.13      The Government project proposal fell into four parts.  First, an
offshore fishing company which would own/operate two vessels, a trawler and
a purse seining vessel; second, an inshore company which would either own
or lease from Government the infrastructure required to operate the
artisanal fishing development in seven village locations between Berbera
and Alula and would provide overall management and marketing; third, the
infrastructure itself comprising principally a cold storage at Berbera
(which DANIDA had in principle confirmed its intention to finance) together
with a jetty and support and maintenance facilities, five floating depots
(with cold storage) to be located in the fishing villages and a collector
vessel which (in the absence of road communications) would be required to
collect fish from the depots and deliver to Berbera; and fourth, credit to
individual fishermen for the repair of existing boats together with a
training program. The estimated cost of this project at June 1982 prices
was about US$30 million.
3.14      An IFC/IDA review concluded, however, that this project would not
be attractive to conventional commercial investment. Because of the high
risks associated with the commercial operation of a trawler to support
purse seine fishing as well as to carry out commercially viable trawling
operations, under estimation of the costs of operating in north Somalia,
and uncertainties regarding catch rates, species composition and seasonal
variation which could effect the profitability of purse seine operations.
Consideration of these uncertainties and risks led to an IDA proposal for
an exploratory/pilot project.
3.15      The key to unlock the small-scale fisheries sector in the North
is the development of the valuable offshore pelagic fish stocks to provide
adequate volume, quality and price required to secure both export markets
and funds to support in the costs of infrastructure for both offshore and
inshore operations. The development of the artisanal sector depends upon
the future ability of the inshore fleet to market its catch in export
markets opened up by commercial scale operations.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objective
4.01      The Project would lay the foundation for Somalia to (i) determine
the feasibility and financial viability of offshore catching of a variety
of pelagic species known to be present in considerable abundance in North
Somali waters; (ii) test critical assumptions for the development of the
artisanal fisheries in the project area and to provide a framework for
future income and employment generation to one of the poorest parts of the
country; and (iii) develop an institutional framework for long-term public
and private sector activities through the operation of an autonomous
enterprise, providing services to the fisheries sector, which would be
established under the existing Government institutional framework for
autonomous enterprises.
Project Description
4.02      The project would be implemented over a three-year period and is
based on three major components. An inshore facility with Bolimog as its
headquarters, offshore exploratory pilot commercial fishing trials and
appropriate technical assistance and training.
Inshore Fisheries
(i) Bolimog. The following would be financed at Bolimog: fish
receiving, processing and transport facilities, supported by low
capital cost shore facilities including workshops, a slipway and
the rehabilitation of essential physical facilities, including
housing. This center would service the adjacent small fishing
communities of Alula, Habo and Ghesselei using land
transportation and would link with Bossaso and Candala using a
collector vessel.
(ii)  Bossaso and Candala.  Additional modestly scaled fish receiving
facilities would be located at these points. At Bossaso,
facilities would be financed--(i) to service outlying fishing
villages, including Elayu and (ii) to make needed repairs to the
existing jetty.
(iii)   Fish Collection and Trans-shipment Vessels.  Two vessels would be
required to support inshore activities. These would consist of
(i) a vessel for fish collection from coastal villages, and (ii)
a trans-shipment vessel to deliver frozen product from Bolimog to
the cold storage at Berbera and to resupply Bolimog.
(iv)   Fishing Boats and Gear.  Provision would be made for the purchase
of small fishing boats and appropriate gear under a credit
program administered by the enterprise in collaboration with SDB
(para. 5.19).



- 12 -
Offshore Fisheries
4.03      The project would finance (i) two chartered purse seiners to be
deployed in north Somali waters for a period of up to two years, (ii) a
vessel to provide the necessary support services, and (iii) operating costs
of the purse seiners. Purse seine fishing trials would be conducted in
order to determine the catch rates, species composition and seasonal
variation of pelagic fish stocks in the project area. The trials would be
carried out under conditions which would, as nearly as possible,
approximate commercial fishing operations. Concurrent biological and
oceanographic observations critical for evaluating the future financial and
economic basis of a pelagic fishery would be made.
Technical Assistance
4.04      Technical assistance would be financed and provided to:
(i) Assist in the management, setting up and operation of the inshore
facilities.
(ii) Assist in fisheries development at the level of the village
fishermen.
(iii) Provide a simple well-organized training program to project area
fishermen mainly in the areas of boat, gear and engine
maintenance.
(iv) Supervise and carry out the offshore exploratory fisheries
program.
(v) Provide engineering, design and feasibility studies required for
the preparation of a future project involving harbor and
fisheries facilities.
(vi) In the event of Government failure to secure funds for a national
fisheries training program, provision has been made for the
design of an institutional training program suitable for
international financing. Senior and mid-level cadre need to be
trained in the specialized fields of fisheries management and
administration. In addition, recommendations are needed on ways
to upgrade the skills and increase the numbers of trained
personnel capable of operating fully equipped modern fishing
vessels, gear and engine room equipment.
Detailed Features
Inshore Fisheries
4.05      Bolimog (US$2.1 million).  The Project would provide a 250 ton
frozen storage at -29°C and a 5 ton/day freezing facility, 15 ton/day flake
ice making, 15 ton ice silo and 15 ton fresh fish storage. The plant would
be housed within the shell of the existing building complex at Bolimog.
The facilities at Bolimog have been transferred by SDB to the enterprise
free of obligations and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the



- 13 -
Association. Renovations to the existing building, new insulating
materials, electrical equipment, sea water system and fresh water supply
would be provided to make the plant operational. The cold storage capacity
would be provided in modular sections of about 85 tons each. Installations
would be phased to accommodate projections of catch based on implementation
experience. Workshop facilities and equipment for servicing the plant, to
support the operations of the plant and fish collection operations would
include forklift trucks, pick-up trucks and insulated refrigerated trucks
and trailer. To assist the improvement of the existing quay, a small
bulldozer would be provided. Radio transmission equipment with single side
band capability would be provided and would link the shore bases and the
vessels.
4.06      Repairs and extension, based on preliminary design (US$0.3 mil-
lion), would be made to existing landing places to provide about 60 m of
quay which would have a depth of about 4.5 m at high tide alongside and
would be capable of handling a carrier vessel of up to 900 gross tons in
most circumstances. A slipway and cradle would be provided with a capacity
to handle fishing boats of up to 12 m, a 60 hp winch of 10-12 ton capacity
would be fitted. At Habo the estuary provides an all weather anchorage and
landing place for the landing craft. The ramp, which would be used to load
an insulated trailer for transporting fish, would be resurfaced with paving
stones and an extension to provide a more secure approach across the sand.
4.07      The existing office buildings, 8 senior staff houses and 24
smaller houses for factory personnel would be renovated. Appropriate
hardware, plumbing, furniture and equipment would also be provided.
4.08     Bossaso and Candala (US$0.7 million).  At Bossaso and Candala,
small fish receiving stations with an office, house, storeroom and fish
receiving facilities would be built. There would be 5 ton/day capacity of
flake ice production with a 10 ton silo and 15 ton of fresh fish storage at
+20C. At Bossaso, an insulated/refrigerated truck to be used in
transporting fish from local villages, and a pick-up truck would also be
provided. A wooden jetty built in 1967 is in deteriorated condition with
about 15% of the pilings showing serious damage. The jetty would appear to
be adequate to serve the needs of the local fishermen and traders for at
least another 5-10 years with moderate repairs and the fitting of a landing
stage and steps. The needed repairs would be financed.
4.09      Fish Collection and Trans-shipment Vessels (US$2.0 million).
(i) Collector Vessel. Fish collection would be carried out by the
landing craft operated by the SDB to support the station at
Bolimog. The landing craft has been transferred by SDB to the
enterprise, free of obligations and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. The landing craft, in excellent
condition, is 14 m long, 7 m wide and draws 1.25 m loaded, and is
capable of carrying 25 tons. It is powered by a 125 hp,diesel
engine. The existing craft does not have hold space suitable for
carrying frozen fish but is ideally suited to carrying a
refrigerated trailer vehicle fitted out for transporting boxes of



- 14 -
ice and fish from the receiving stations to Bolimog. Minor
renovation and modification, together with its operating costs,
would be financed.
(ii) Trans-shipment Vessel. A used vessel would be purchased,
renovated and delivered to the project area to serve as a
trans-shipment and supply vessel. Because of changes in
profitability and operating conditions, a considerable number of
used vessels are becoming available as surplus from the worldwide
tuna long-line fleet. These vessels are typically about 45 m
long of about 900 gross ton capacity and have been designed and
fitted out as freezer carrier vessels. Associated operating
costs would also be financed.
4.10      Fishing Boats and Gear (US$0.6 million).  Under a credit program
of the enterprise, credit for up to 28 motorized fishing boats would be
made available for purchase by individuals, or groups of individuals.
These boats, regarded as satisfactory by local fishermen, would be equipped
with a naturally aspirated hand start diesel engine of about 12-18 hp.
Equipped primarily for hook and line fishing and capable of carrying up to
200 kg of ice and 200 kg of fish, the vessels would have a crew of 4-5 and
would be intended for half day fishing trips with a range of about 60 km.
Offshore Fisheries (US$5.8 million)
4.11      Purse Seine Fishing Trials.  The project would finance a
pilot/exploration program with fishing trials of up to 24 months'
duration. This would include costs for the charter of two purse seine
vessels with refrigerated seawater/brine freezing capabilities in the size
class about 33 m, as well as the costs of fuel and specialized gear. The
operators of the purse seine vessels would be required to demonstrate a
substantial record of purse seine fishing preferably for both large and
small pelagic species and for operating refrigerated seawater/brine
freezing systems.
4.12      Support Vessel.  Government has agreed to make available to the
enterprise one of a small fleet of 23 m fiberglass combination fishing
vessels. The proposed vessel would be subject to an acceptable marine
survey, and financing would be provided to refit it as necessary together
with operating costs to enable it to act primarily as a support vessel for
the offshore operation. This would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Credit. Other support vessel operations to assist the inshore fisheries
may also be carried out, including filling in for the collector or
trans-shipment ves-els and conducting trial fishing operations as required.
Techical Assistance and Training (US$4.8 million)
4.13      The project would finance the post of the general manager and the
financial controller. The general manager would be responsible to the
board of directors for the implementation of the exploration/pilot
project. The general manager would manage the activities of the two
consulting firms (para 5.04) and the day-to-day affairs of the enterprise.
The financial controller would be responsible for establishing adequate
accounting and management information systems for ensuring the conduct of
the enterprise on a sound financial basis. Terms of reference are shown in



- 15 -
Annex II. The employment of these specialists on terms and conditions and
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association was
confirmed at negotiations.
4.14      The project would finance consultants' services for planning,
execution and analysis of the offshore exploration/pilot program. Terms of
reference are shown in Annex II. These specialists have been appointed on
terms and conditions and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Association.
4.15      The project would finance consultants, services for the
implementation of the inshore fisheries program. The consultants would be
required to demonstrate substantial experience with the successful
administration of artisanal fishery development programs in remote areas
which have included the establishment and operation of seafood processing
facilities and construction of shore facilities. As part of the
consultancy, a training program would be designed to meet the specific
training needs of the artisanal fishermen in the project area. The
training program would concentrate on the care of boats, engines and
fishing gear. The course would be specifically prepared by the training
officer and he would be responsible for the design of the training
material. Provision would be made for training course expenses and
materials (US$0.2 million). Terms of reference are shown in Annex II. The
employment of these specialists, on terms and conditions and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, would be a
condition of disbursement for withdrawals from the vessel category of the
proposed credit.
4.16      The project would fund the design of an institutional training
program suitable for international financing and other short-term
consultancies, including preparation of detailed specifications for the
offshore operation, fishing vessel procurement, monitoring and evaluation
and sociological studies. During the third year, depending on the outcome
of the offshore exploration/pilot program, the project would also finance
engineering, design and feasibility studies required for the preparation of
a future project involving harbor and fisheries facilities. The employment
of these specialists on terms and conditions and with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association was confirmed at negotiations.
4.17      The total man-years for the above technical assistance included
in paras 4.13-4.16 would be 37 at a cost of about US$4.4 million. The
average man-year cost (based on the individual fees, international travel,
local allowances and overheads) is expected to be about US$120,000.
Furthermore, the project has financed under the Project Preparation
Facility (para. 4.21), the corporate feasibility study (para. 3.12) at a
cost of US$0.2 million.
Enterprise (US$0.7 million)
4.18      The project would finance the headquarters cost of the
enterprise. This would include purchase of vehicles, office equipment and
the associated operating costs of local staff salaries, travel, air



- 16 -
charter and the office. The operating costs of the processing facilities
would be financed from the sales proceeds of the inshore catch and the
initial working capital to commence operations would be provided by
Government through its investment in the enterprise (para. 4.23).
Project Costs
4.19       Total project cost is estimated at So Sh 334.2 million (US$19.0
million). The foreign exchange component is US$17.0 million (89%).
Investments under the project are free of duties and taxes.
Table 1
Project Cost Sunmnry
So Sh  illion         US$ Million     % Foreign % of Total
Project Conponent   local Foreign Total   local Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs
InshDre Fisheries   13.9  69.0   82.9     0.9   4.5    5.4    83         33
Offshore Fisheries   0.7  87.8   88.5     0.1   5.7    5.8    99         35
Enterprise          3.7   6.7   10.4      0.2   0.5    0.7    64          4
Technical Assistance
and Trainirg      7.9  64.7   72.6      0.5   4.3    4.8    89         29
Total Baseline Costs 26.2  228.2  254.4   1.7  15.0   16.7    90        100
Physical
Contingencies     1.9   6.1    8.0      0.1   0.4    0.5    77          3
Price
Contingencies     7.3  64.5   71.8      0.2   1.6    1.8    90         11
Total Costs        35.4 298.8  334.2      2.0  17.0   19.0    89        114
4.20       Cost estimates are based on projected prices as of January 1984.
A 10% physical contingency has been provided for the costs of processing,
shore facilities, support vessels and operating costs of the enterprise.
Physical contingencies have not been provided for offshore operations,
fishing boat credit, purchase of the support vessel and technical
assistance. The baseline costs of these items for which no physical
contingencies have been provided total US$11.4 million. Price
contingencies have been separately calculated for the foreign exchange and
local currency components, and have been estimated on the expected annual
inflation rates detailed in Table 2. From 1981 through 1983, the Somali
shilling was devalued on three occasions against the US dollar (moving from
a June 1981 rate of 6.295 to 17.58 in November 1983). The baseline costs
above were calculated at 15.227, the rate ruling at the time of appraisal.
The adjustment to the current exchange rate of 17.58 is incorporated within
the price contingencies.



- 17 -
Table 2
Percentage Rates of Inflation
1984    1985    1986    1987
----------percent-----------
Foreign exchange component               7.5       7       6        6
Local currency component                20        15      10       10
4.21      A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$550,000 has been
approved to cover the estimated foreign costs of: the already completed
corporate feasibility study (US$230,000), technical assistance
(US$225,000), vehicles and equipment (US$50,000), and start-up costs
of the enterprise (US$45,000).
Proposed Financing
4.22      Project costs would be financed as shown in Table 3.  The Arab
Fund would finance, jointly with Government, the shore and processing
facilities at Bolimog, Bossaso and Candala; the purchase of small fishing
boats and appropriate gear for the Inshore Fisheries component and the
refit of the support vessel. The IDA credit would finance, jointly with
Government, all other components.
Table 3
Proposed Financing Plan a/
(US$ million)
Local    Foreign              % of Total
Currency  Exchange              Project
Cost      Costs      Total      Cost
IDA Credit                           -        13.5       13.5         71
Government of Somalia                2.0       -          2.0         11
Arab Fund b/                          -        3.5        3.5         18
2.0      17.0       19.0        100
a! Amounts include contingencies.
b/ For Economic and Social Development, Kuwait.



- 18 -
4.23     The proposed IDA Credit to Government would be on standard terms.
Government would make available to the enterprise the proceeds of the
Credit, US$13.5 million, as a loan at an interest rate of 12% per annum.
The level of credit activity for the fisheries subsector is small and
additional lending under this project would amount to only US$600,000.
Although the 12% interest rate is not positive in real terms at the current
rate of inflation (average 1981-83 = 29%), it is slightly higher than the
present interest rates for agricultural loans (10-11%).  There would be no
repayments of interest or capital during the project period. Arrangements
for the repayment to Government of the loan to the enterprise or the
conversion of some part to equity, would be included in a future financing
plan based on a successful exploration/pilot phase and a decision to
proceed with harbor and other fisheries facilities (para. 7.04). The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and the
enterprise, satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Funds provided by the Arab Fund (para. 4.22) would be
passed on by Government to the enterprise as a loan on a concessionary
basis, details of which are still to be determined. It would be a
condition of disbursement of the vessel category that the funds to be
provided by the Arab Fund had been made available to the enterprise.
4.24      Project financing for the different components of goods and
services is set out in Table 4.
Table 4
Financing for Different Categories of Works, Goods and Services2/
(US$ Million)
Government   IDA    Arab Fund  Total
Civil Works                               0.6         -         0.4       1.0
Shore Processing Facilities,
Vehicles and Equipment                  0.3        0.1        2.2       2.6
Purse Seine Charter                        -         4.4         -        4.4
Small Fishing Boats and
Fishing Gear                             -         0.4        0.7       1.1
Vessels (Collector, Support
and Trans-shipment)                      -         1.0        0.2       1.2
Technical Assistance
and Training                            0.6        4.8         -       5.4
Operating Costs
Vessels                                 0.2        1.8         -        2.0
Fuel for Charter                         -         0.6         -       0.6
Enterprise                              0.3        0.4         -        0.7
2.0      13.5        3.5      19.0
2/ Amounts include contingencies.



- i9
Procurement 3/
4.25      The following paras. 4.26-4.30 are based upon IDA procurement
procedures. The shore and processing facilities (paras. 4.05-4.08), the
small fishing boats and gear (para. 4.10) and refit of the support vessel
(para. 4.12) would be procured under the procurement procedures of the Arab
Fund (US$3.5 million).
4.26      Contracts for supply of vehicles, equipment and services
exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to ICB in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines. The items would be aggregated into appropriate bidding
packages. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in
ICB bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower.
Contracts less than US$100,000 and in aggregate totalling no more than
US$500,000 would be procured by the enterprise through local competitive
bidding (LCB). The enterprise would follow procedures involving
advertising, evaluation by committee, approval by the general manager and
contract award. These procedures were reviewed at negotiations and found
acceptable to the Association. For contracts under US$10,000 up to a total
of US$300,000, comparative shopping or purchasing off the shelf would be
used. Contracts would total about US$1.2 million. In total, ICB would
account for about 33% by value of the purchase of goods described above.
4.27      Spare parts, fishing gear and fuel (US$1.7 million) for boats and
processing facilities would be purchased by quotations from the
manufacturers of the equipment, other reliable parts manufacturers and
dealers as appropriate.
4.28      The secondhand trans-shipment vessel (US$ 0.8 million) would be
procured on the basis of international shopping procedures. This would be
based on a certified marine survey and appraisal by a licensed marine
surveyor of a short list of available secondhand vessels to meet the
outline specifications. Any needed dry docking, repair, or alterations for
the trans-shipment and collector vessels would be procured through
quotations as appropriate (US$0.3 million). These procedures would be
carried out in consulation with and would be acceptable to the Association.
This was confirmed at negotiations.
4.29      The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of internationally recruited experts and consultants (US$4.8
million) would be satisfactory to the Association. In addition, suitable
purse seine fishing vessels to carry out the exploratory pilot fishing
trials would be chartered (para 5.13, US$4.4 million).  Due to the small
number of potential suppliers, procurement would be carried out through
limited international bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
4.30      All bidding packages for services, works and goods estimated to
cost over US$0.25 million equivalent would be subject to prior IDA review
of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage of about 75%
of the total estimated value of the contracts financed by IDA. The balance
of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after contract
award.
3/ All amounts in this section include contingencies.



- 20 -
Disbursement
4.31      The proceeds of the IDA Credit to be disbursed over three years
are described in Table 5. Disbursements for the IDA Credit would be fully
documented. A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown in Annex III,
Table 5. No comparable disbursement profile for a pilot project of this
type exists.
Table 5
Schedule of Disbursement by Categories
Category                               Amount of Credit    % of Expenditure
Number       Goods or Services              Allocated        to be Financed
(US$ Million)
1.     Vessels and                          2.6           100% of foreign
Operating Costs                                   expenditure or if
purchased locally,
50% of local
expenditures.
2.     Charter of Purse Seiners,            4.0           100% of foreign
expenditures.
3.     Fishing Gear, Vehicles and           0.4           100% of foreign
Office Equipment                                  expenditure, or if
purchased locally,
90% of local
expenditures.
4.     Technical Assistance                 4.3           100% of foreign
expenditures.
5.     Other Materials, Equipment           0.7           100% of foreign
and Services                                      expenditures or if
purchased locally,
50% of local
expenditures.
6.     Refund of Project                    0.5           100% of principal
Preparation Advance                               amount and charges
outstanding at
Effectiveness Date
7.     Unallocated                          1.0
13.5
Accounts and Audit
4.32      The enterprise would establish and maintain separate
project-related accounts in commercial form, showing the results of its
different activities, to be operational from the commencement of project
implementation. Such accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound
and generally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory



- 21 -
to IDA to enable the enterprise to provide interim and annual financial
statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the
project. This was confirmed at negotiations. The financial controller
would be responsible for the design and implementation of the accounting
and management and information systems.
4.33      The enterprise would appoint independent commercial auditors
acceptable to the Association and assurances to this effect were obtained
at negotiations. An auditor's opinion and report, satisfactory to IDA on
such statements, would be provided within six months of the close of the
fiscal year. The auditor's report would include a statement on the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls. The foregoing
accounting, financial reporting, management information systems and
auditing arrangements would provide adequate and timely information to IDA
for supervision of disbursements and the project generally.
Environmental Effects
4.34      The project would have an insignificant effect on the environment
and such minimal effects as may occur would be justified in view of the
substantial economic and social benefits expected to occur in the future.
Insignificant fish processing waste would be expected from the daily volume
of fish as the export product would be whole frozen.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Enterprise
5.01      The project would be implemented through the North East Coast
Fisheries Enterprise (Annex VI, Chart 2) established in Somalia under Law
No. 13 and the relevant procedures and statutes governing the formation of
autonomous enterprises. It would initially be a wholly owned Government
enterprise with legal autonomy. The enterprise would be under the policy
direction of a board of directors and chaired by the Minister of
Fisheries. The board would consist of representataives of the Ministries
of Fisheries and Finance, the private business community, a representative
of SDB, and the general manager. As outlined in para. 2.27 although the
enterprise would be responsible during the project period for the
implementation of a pilot project, the foundation must be laid even at this
early stage for future commercial operations within a private sector
framework. The progress of the enterprise would be monitored through the
annual work program review (para. 5.17). The establishing legislation
defines the enterprise objectives, the powers of the general manager and
arrangements governing the operations of the enterprise. The general
manager would conduct the day-to-day affairs of the enterprise and be
responsible to the board for the financial and operational arrangements of
the project.
5.02      The enterprise is authorized to recruit and employ personnel
directly. The legislation of the enterprise ensures the employment of
personnel on acceptable pay scales and the discharge of employees for
unsatisfactory service. The enterprise is also authorized to maintain an



- 22 -
offshore bank account which is essential for project implementation.  In
addition to these two essential features, the legislation also embodies
requirements for successful project implementation on issues such as
importation of goods duty free, exemption from port and harbor dues and
remission from payment of income and profits tax for five years.
5.03      A successful development stage would provide through the
enterprise, the mechanism for future private sector and possible IFC
investment in the fisheries sector.  Although the project period covers
only the exploration/pilot phase, it would establish the foundation for
future commercial operations. It is, therefore, important that the major
project operations be managed through those disciplines which are necessary
for subsequent successful commercial operations and that they be installed
early in the development process.
Project Implementation
5.04      The enterprise would employ two consultant firms which would be
under the control of the general manager. One would implement the
artisanal component of the project and the other, the pilot/exploratory
test fishing program. The selection process for the employment of the
pilot/exploratory test fishing program consultants has been completed. See
Annex VI, Charts 3 and 4 for bar charts on implementation by post and
tasks.
5.05      Artisanal Component.  Consultants would be responsible for
carrying out a program for the redevelopment of artisanal fisheries in the
project area. The program would test the assumptions which could be used
in production-oriented development programs to assist artisanal fishermen
to achieve production levels sufficient to justify future investments. The
components would include the establishment of a seafood processing plant at
Bolimog including repairs to buildings and landing facilities; fish
receiving stations at Bossaso and Candala; a fish collection system; a
transport system for transfer of frozen fish from Bolimog to Berbera; a
fisheries development program for artisanal fishermen which would include
improvement of present processing practices; credit and supply systems for
boats and gear to artisanal fishermen in the project area; a training
program for the specific needs of artisanal fishermen in the project area
and the establishment of a system to provide the data to monitor and
evaluate the activities of the inshore fisheries component. Consultants
would provide a team with skills in seafood processing, civil works and
construction, plant refrigeration, vehicle and equipment maintenance,
artisanal fisheries development, training and rural sociology.
5.06      The consultant team would be headed by the plant manager and
together with the construction supervisor and local staff, they would
establish the operational center at Bolimog. During the first six months,
they would, in conjunction with the general manager of the enterprise,
organize the relevant procurement of materials and equipment to renovate
houses and buildings at Bolimog; new insulating materials, electrical
equipment, tools, replacement parts for the sea and freshwater systems;



- 23 -
and the material, equipment and vehicles required for the processing plant
and landing place repair and extension. At the end of six months, the team
would be increased with the arrival of the plant mechanic and refrigeratior
engineer in order to implement the construction of the processing
facilities so as to have the plant in operational order by the end of the
first year. After completion of the Bolimog complex, work would commence
at Bossaso and Candala for the construction of small fish receiving
facilities and the renovation of the jetty at Bossaso. It is estimated
that this work would be carried out over a period of a further 12 to 18
months, including procurement.
5.07      Procurement of the trans-shipment vessel and its renovation would
be initiated early in the project cycle, in consultation with the general
manager, so that it would be available before the end of the first year and
would, therefore, be available to trans-ship the frozen product from
Bolimog to Berbera. In addition, the landing craft/collector vessel (para
4.09) would be serviced as early as possible in the project in order that
it would be available to land all the materials, equipment and vehicles
required at Bolimog. Afterwards, it may require some minor modifications
so that it can be used as the vessel for the collector system.
5.08      The collector vessel would serve to supply the fish collection
stations with clean fish boxes, fuel oil and other supplies and to receive
ice and fish. Sailing time between Bolimog and Bossaso is about 17 hours;
a complete pickup of fish from the fisherman at Elayu, for example, to
delivery of fish to the Bolimog plant would take between 24 and 48 hours
depending on when the fishermen landed their catch. The collector vessel
could make two complete trips in five days. In practice experience with
fishermen landing and fishing cycles will determine the schedule of the
collector vessel. However, ample time would be available to collect fish
and process them through the freezing plant in less than the 96 hours
required to maintain a high quality product.
5.09      Towards the end of the first year, two experts--the fisheries
operations development officer and training officer--would join the
consultant team at Bolimog. Initial operations would be concentrated on
establishing operational links with the artisanal fishermen of the Alula
district, making arrangements for the onshore collector system,
establishing harvesting, collection and delivery systems, the procurement
of fishing boats, engines and gear, and the design of the fisheries
development and training programs. In connection with this program, the
short-term assistance of a rural sociologist would be sought to establish a
better framework for the fishery development and training activities.
5.10      Fisheries training would concentrate on developing skills needed
to assist the fishermen to operate and maintain motorized fishing vessels,
handle fish with ice, and to develop skills needed to keep minimal catch
and financial records. An outline of the training program, including a
syllabus, is found in Annex V of the Implementation Volume.
5.11      Pilot/Exploratory Test Fishing Program.  The pilot commercial
fishing operation would determine the future commercial potential of the
valuable pelagic stocks of fish in the waters off northern Somalia in order



- 24 -
to plan for the future development of appropriate shore facilities and
fishing fleets. Objectives are to establish catch rates under simulated
commercial conditions and to provide data for financial and economic
projections. In addition, much will be learned about fish stocks which
could form the future basis for fisheries management programs.
5.12      In order to meet these objectives, the project would determine
inter alia: (a) catch rates; (b) fishing grounds (seasonal); (c) most
appropriate fishing gear; (d) operational base for vessel activities; (e)
local crew performance and training needs; (f) carry out biological
physical investigations to determine species composition, maturities, age
structure of the population, seasonal distribution and feeding habits; (g)
carry out trial processing and handling procedures; and (h) collect
detailed data on costs.
5.13      Two purse seine vessels, about 33 m, would be chartered.  The
rationale for the use of two purse seiners for the pilot/exploratory test
fishing program, together with summary specifications, charter arrangements
and logistics, is set out in Annex IV of the Implementation Volume. The
vessels would be ready for departure for fishing in the Gulf of Aden in
September 1984. Each vessel at that time would have an experienced crew
and a data gatherer/recorder. One senior consultant staff member would be
aboard one of the vessels. He would direct the operation of both vessels
by radio and maintain communication with the general manager. Support to
the operations of the purse seiners would be provided by a support vessel,
thus enabling maximum time for fishing trials. The purse seiners would be
capable of considerable flexibility in fishing. Nets for catching small
and large pelagic species would be available and deployed as circumstances
dictate. The vessels would also be capable of fishing at night using light
attraction devices, and capable of carrying out experimental mid-water
trawling. The vessels would be equipped with refrigerated circulating
brine freezing tanks and would be fitted out to handle both small and large
pelagics. Each operational period of about 60 days would contain a period
of about 10 days for maintenance, crew rests and resupply.
5.14      A program of environmental and biological measurements would be
executed concurrent with the fishing operations. The program would be
designed and reported independently of the fishing operations. The taking
of on board measurements would be by qualified observers retained by the
consultant. Operating reports would be submitted periodically detailing
vessel position, air temperatures, wind condition, sea temperatures at
surface and subsurface, oxygen and salinity measurements, current
conditions (where possible), sampling of fish species, maturity, sex,
length, weight and other relevant data (para. 5.21).
5.15      In consultation with the general manager, the consultant would
decide on the best method for the onboard handling of small pelagics. All
operations of this type in other fisheries are supported by substantial
processing facilities either at sea with large expensive mother ships or by
shore plants. The handling methods that would be considered are: (a)
freezing the catch and delivering it to one of the refrigerated carriers
serving the area for onward transport to an appropriate market; (b) if the
quantity of catch is sufficient to warrant it, the chilled fish would be



- 25 -
delivered over the side to a mother ship which would purchase the catch,
freeze it and arrange its onward distribution; (c) chilling or freezing the
catch in brine and delivering it in the seiner to market; or (d) release to
the sea subsequent to capture but after estimating quantity and species
breakdown and the taking of samples.
5.16      The consultants would provide marketing services and may, in due
course, recommend the appointment of an agent in some or all of the
potential markets in order to discharge those sales which result from the
successful handling of the catch.  Good information on potential markets in
the Middle East is available (paras. 6.06 and 6.07). Experiments would be
conducted to assess the market acceptability of frozen small pelagics
processed and handled under the conditions prevailing on board the purse
seiners. Trial shipments would be made to markets in the Middle East
particularly to Saudi Arabia and Egypt. From these trials, some estimate
of the market potential for pilot production would be extrapolated. Of
course future project markets would be predicated on the availability of
shore processing facilities and these trials are viewed as being pilot
project specific. However, the trials are important to the project because
they would (a) open the opportunity for revenues to be earned even during
the pilot project phase, (b) provide valuable market information on fish
processed by purse seiners, and (c) yield useful insights into the detailed
marketing arrangements within the various Middle Eastern countries.
5.17      Annual work programs would be prepared by the two consultant
firms and submitted to the general manager. They would be essential to the
implementation and monitoring and evaluation mechanism. They would
include: (i) a review of project implementation in the current year; (ii)
detailed description of the work to be carried out in the forthcoming year
including objectives, deployment of staff and equipment; (iii) requirement
for additional staff, equipment and other inputs; (iv) a budget and
financing plan; (v) progress of the enterprise towards meeting its
objectives; (vi) progress on the artisanal fisheries development program;
and (vii) reporting of cruise plans and results from the pilot/exploratory
test fishing program. The annual work program would enable the enterprise
to review the project progress and programs and prepare its submission to
the Association for approval. Initial work programs would be prepared
within two months of employment. For the following year, they would be
submitted to the enterprise by April 1 and after their review, to the
Association by May 15 for approval. Assurances to this effect were
confirmed at negotiations.
5.18      SDB has transferred the facilities at Bolimog, including the
landing craft to the enterprise free of obligation and under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. This transfer includes appropriate
provision for the long-term development of Bolimog as a possible center for
future operations.
5.19      Credit would be made available by the enterprise to fishermen for
the purchase of boats and gear. A loan officer of the SDB would be
assigned to the enterprise before the end of the first year of the project
period to be trained in administering the scheme designed by the
consultants. During negotiations assurances were obtained that SDB would
assign a loan officer to the enterprise.



- 26 -
5.20      DANIDA and UNCDF funded projects would support the inshore
fishing activities at Berbera and to the west by providing assistance
to artisanal fishermen and by constructing seafood processing facilities on
a suitable site at Berbera (para 3.10). Government has confirmed the
availability of the site. Under separate agreement appropriate technical
assistance would be made available to operate the cold store facility at
Berbera. The operation of this plant would be under the control of the
general manager of the enterprise. DANIDA expects to issue tender
documents for the construction of the cold storage facility in April/May
1984 and it is anticipated that the facility would be completed prior to
production becoming available from the fisheries exploration/pilot
project. Signing of the DANIDA agreement with Government for the
construction of the cold storage facility would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit and it was confirmed at negotiations that
Government would construct the cold storage facility by December 31, 1985.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.21      The artisanal and offshore consultants would be responsible for
providing to the general manager quarterly data and analysis of the results
of the artisanal fisheries and the offshore pilot/exploratory test fishing
program. IDA would receive quarterly progress reports covering the various
project components, including where applicable information on tendering,
bid awards, procurement and disbursements, and also detailed operating
performance of the seafood processing facilities and fish receiving
stations. Each report would also detail the specific data collected on the
offshore pilot/exploration and artisanal fishery operations. These
quarterly reports and periodic IDA supervision missions would help to
ensure the adequacy of the reporting, monitoring and evaluation system to
anticipate, identify, analyse and evaluate problems and to take necessary
actions.
5.22      The key fisheries basic data for the artisanal fisheries are
available and the consultants would institute the necessary additional data
collection procedures for project implementation in order to monitor
project progress by comparing actual accomplishment with expected targets.
The data would be analysed, to the extent possible, as an input to the
formulation of the annual work program (para. 5.17). Draft guidelines for
the conduct of the pilot/exploratory pelagic fishing trials and for the
socio-economic and catch data for the artisanal fisheries are available.
These are both contained in Annex VI of the Implementation Volume and would
be finalized by the consultants in consultation with the general manager
with a view to adopting them to serve as a management tool. In addition,
the monitoring system would address specifically the risks inherent in the
pilot project. The major risks are discussed in detail in paras. 7.07-
7.09.
5.23      At the end of the project, this information, along with the
internal management records, would be interpreted with a view to evaluating
the attainment of the major project objectives. The consultant's final
report on the offshore pilot/exploration program, to be available by
December 31, 1986, would determine the future commercial potential of the
valuable pelagic stocks by assessing: (a) catch rates; (b) fishing grounds
(seasonal); (c) most appropriate fishing gear; (d) operational base for
vessel activities; (e) local crew performance and training needs;



- 27 -
(f) biological data; (g) test handling and processing procedures and trial
marketing; and (h) detailed data on costs. At the project closing date,
the consultants for the artisanal program would report on: (a) estimated
inshore resource potential/major commercial species; (b) fishery
gear/method recommendations; (c) boat performance, recommendations and
alternatives; (d) outcome of collection, processing and trans-shipment
schemes; (e) outcome of the fishery development, training and credit
programs. The outcome of the pilot/exploratory offshore operations would
be determined on the basis of the data collected, the quarterly reports of
the enterprise and the consultants final report. These data and reports
would also be used as an input for the planning for future harbor and
fisheries facilities (para. 4.16 and 7.04).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
6.01      The annual incremental output from the artisanal and offshore
commercial subsectors is expected to be substantially increased following
the successful conclusion of the exploration/pilot phase.
Artisanal
6.02      Production.  The catch from the existing fishing boats in the
project area and from those added under the project is expected to grow
from the present level of 100 to 200 tons a year to about 1,600 tons by the
end of the third year of the exploratory/pilot project. Full production,
of about 4,000 tons, would be reached about year 7 and would be valued at
about US$7 million.
6.03      Markets.  The inshore catch handled by the project would consist
mainly of species highly regarded by markets in nearby Middle Eastern
countries and by other international markets (Europe and Far East). Export
markets for bream, snapper, grouper, seabass and crevalle are excellent.
New supplies of high quality hook and line caught fish of these species are
few. Incremental exports from the project would constitute less than 1% of
total supply and therefore project production would have no impact on
international markets for these species. A major emphasis of the project
would be to improve the quality of the fish exported from Somalia relative
to similar supplies from other countries in order to attract premium
prices. Only a small part of the catch would be sold on the local
market (para. 3.08).
6.04      Prices.  Prices used for financial projections are based on
average prices paid by cold storage operators in the Middle East in the
first quarter of 1983. It is expected that the quality of project fish
would exceed the quality of fish available in the Middle East market.
Demand for the species produced by the inshore fishery is expected to grow
and international prices for these species are expected to increase in
proportion to economic recovery in the developed economies. Given these
conditions, the use of these prices is reasonable and conservative. Prices
used average US$1200/ton fob Somalia for hook and line caught high quality
species; no projections have been made for other incidental species which
might be caught.



- 28 -
Offshore Fishery
6.05      Production.  As the purpose of the exploration/pilot project is
to establish species composition, catch rates and availability (a
combination of abundance, distribution and catchability), no production
estimates for the exploration/pilot project are presented. But based on
everything known or inferred from resource surveys and industry
observations, the relative abundance of large pelagics (mostly tuna) to
small pelagics (mostly oil sardines) should be about 15% : 85%. Given the
estimates of the total resource of small pelagics, purse seiners of the
type proposed for the project should be able to catch on the average about
8,000 tons of pelagics in a year. However, in view of the pilot nature of
the project and the absence of experience in catching and handling small
pelagics without shore facilities, no estimates are possible as to the
marketable quantities which may become available to the project
(paras. 5.15 and 5.16).
6.06      Markets.  International markets for small pelagics in the
individual quick frozen form are steadily improving. Every year a lesser
percentage of small pelagics are processed for industrial purposes or for
animal feed stocks as fish meal. In 1980, 20 million tons of fish were
processed for fish meal, down from 27 million tons in 1970. Increasing
amounts of small pelagics are entering the food fish markets. Good markets
for oil sardine and mackerel exist in the Middle East. Egypt annually buys
internationally more than 100,000 tons of small pelagics (mostly sardine),
and this market is expected to expand significantly. Saudi Arabia buys
small amounts of mackerel, but market surveys show that sardine of good
quality in acceptable packages would find an excellent market amongst
foreign workers in Saudi Arabia.
6.07      International markets for large pelagics, particularly tuna,
remain weak. Inventories of frozen tuna are high and prices have not fully
recovered from the 1981-82 lows. But European markets for high quality
frozen yellowfin and skipjack at present prices are attractive to the kind
of fishing operation p'lanned for the project area. Markets for king
mackerel, horse mackerel and jack mackerel are strong in the Middle East,
particularly for the larger sizes which appear to be present in the project
area.
6.08      Prices.  International prices4/ for species expected to be
important constituents of the offshore catch in the project area (US$/
ton fob Somalia) are as follows: oil sardine 300, horse mackerel 350,
caranx 1,000, skipjack tuna 600, yellowfin tuna 1,400 and king mackerel
1,600.
4/ Source: Infofish Marketing, FAO.



- 29 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
Project Benefits
7.01      The project is consistent with the overall sector strategy called
for in the Agricultural Sector Report, in particular with the need for
Somalia to develop its underutilized resources (para. 1.04). As a result
of the project, a substantial start would be made for the longer term in
laying the foundation for future development of the fishing industry for
Somalia's exploitation of its northern waters. Most of the investments
under the project are exploratory and the objective is to gather more
information on the resource, the technical and logistical parameters and
reduce the risk for future investments. During the project cycle, there
would be no significant incremental production (paras. 6.02 and 6.05) due
to the pilot nature of the project and no attempt has been made to
calculate an economic rate of return. However, an attempt has been made to
look beyond the pilot phase to view the longer term possibilities and these
are discussed in paras 7.10 through 7.12 (long-term development).
7.02      Although the pilot project would benefit only about 1,000
families, the number of beneficiaries could increase considerably if the
pilot/exploration project is successful. The beneficiaries would be full-
and part-time fishermen, crew for company vessels and those employed by the
shore facilities. The artisanal fishermen would be able to substantially
increase their fishing activity and obtain higher prices for quality fish
through the link to the export market established by the enterprise and
through access to improved boats, gear and fishing methods. While
ownership of new boats would be with rural entrepreneurs and often with
groups of fishermen, crew members would also share in the benefits of
increased catches and the access to higher market prices. In the project
area market prices are presently in the range of 1 to 2 Somali shillings
per kilogram. It is estimated that the enterprise would soon be able to
increase this to 7.5 Somali shillings per kilogram as a result of the
access to export markets.
7.03      In order to test the feasibility of credit operations, the
project would provide up to 28 fishing boats and appropriate gear to
fishermen within the project area on credit. The estimated cost of an
8.5 m fishing boat and gear is about 340,000 Somali shillings (US$20,000),
The beneficiaries would be required to make a contribution of 10% of the
total cost and repay the balance with interest at 12% per annum over an
eleven year period which would include a grace period on capital of one
year.  Based on this investment and assuming a saleable catch of 135 kg/day
for an average of 180 fishing days per annum and a selling price of 7.5
Somali shillings per kilogram, it is projected that the financial rate of
return of 23% would be sufficient to induce fishermen to make the
investment and become actively involved in fishing in the project area (see
Annex III, Table 2). In the event that the inshore fisheries does not
prove to be financially viable for the individual fishermen who have taken
up credit from the enterprise, the enterprise would purchase the
fishermen's assets at levels consistent with his original contribution.  If
the offshore fishery component failed, Government would have to absorb the
cost. With the exception of the fish processing facilities, however, most
of the remaining infrastructure could probably be adapted to other economic
uses.



- 30 -
Project Justification
7.04      The fundamental justification of the project is the expectation
that the exploration/pilot offshore operation would firmly establish the
data for favorable investment decisions needed for the full scale
development of the valuable offshore pelagic fish stocks. Data on the
known fish resources of the area is drawn from UNDP/NORAD Fridjof Nansen
studies, sporadic industry reports, undocumented cruises of Soviet research
vessels, and the hook and line and gill net catch for the canneries.
However, fish schools, perhaps three miles wide and ten miles long in the
northern waters, have been observed and good data on the very rich primary
production 5/ is available and thus it is not surprising that fish
resources are said to be "among the richest in the world." However, these
observations have not been made from modern commercial fishing boats rigged
to catch any substantial part of the pelagic stocks, and more importantly
able to operate in weather conditions which cause all small fishing boats
to run for cover. Because no successful modern commercial fishery has been
conducted on any of the local pelagic species, it is recognized that the
first attempt has to be exploratory in nature and be expanded only as more
experience and data are gained. Therefore, the pilot offshore component of
the project would primarily determine the feasibility and financial
viability of offshore catching of the pelagic species which are known to be
abundant in north Somali waters. More information would also be
established about the availability for capture of the very large pelagic
resources of the Indian Ocean coast of Somalia where the currents are
strong and substantial uncertainties exist as to the types of gear and
fishing techniques best suited for the harvest of these resources.
7.05       The key to unlock the small-scale fisheries sector in the North
is the development of the valuable offshore pelagic fish stocks in order to
provide adequate volume, quality and price required to secure both export
markets and funds to support the costs of infrastructure for both offshore
and inshore operations. The development of the artisanal sector depends
upon the future ability of the inshore fleet to market its catch in export
markets opened up by commercial scale operations.
7.06      Nevertheless, there are costs attached to the approach adopted.
Being structured on the basis of minimizing capital investment in
infrastructure, operational efficiency will be less than optimum, thereby
raising the unit cost of the inshore catch. The offshore catch during this
phase presents technical difficulties for processing and handling (para.
5.15) and no account has been taken of the potential sales revenue from
this source (para. 6.05). In order to fully develop this potential and
make a significant contribution to Somalia's export earnings, it would
first be necessary to develop harbor and shore processing facilities. The
inshore operational costs reflect not only the lack of infrastructure and
transport availability but also the importance of volume on the unit costs
of production per ton (Annex III, Table 4). However, despite these
additional costs, it is estimated that a breakeven situation on the
activities of the enterprise (exclusive of all technical assistance costs
and depreciation) would be achieved at an inshore catch production level of
3,000 tons of exportable quality species of fish at a fob Berbera price of
US$1,200 per ton (Annex III, Table 3).
5/ Phytoplankton and Zooplankton.



Risks
7.07       The very nature of the pilot/exploration project leads one to a
candid discussion of the maior risks.  Included in these risks are the
complete remoteness of the project area, the hostile physical environment,
lack of basic facilities and the extreme heat during the three-month
monsoon period present an enormous challenge for the development of a
successful fishing industry. The project management will have to overcome
the extraordinary logistic problems of dealing with an area which is
essentially isolated from the rest of Somalia. To assist in overcoming
these risks, additional logistical support for the cost of support vessels,
radio communication, air charter and the control center at Bolimog have
been included in the project costs. In addition, allowance has been made
for increased technical assistance to accommodate the lack of trained
manpower within the area and the fisheries subsector.
7.08       The project implementation period of three years also presents a
challenge as to whether the project will be able to develop and test the
assumptions required for the future development within the timeframe. This
risk would be partly mitigated by the fact that the enterprise has been
formed, a qualified general manager is in post and a letter of intent for
the contract for the pilot/exploratory test fishing program has been
signed. A Project Preparation Facility has been made available for these
purposes (para. 4.21). In addition, there may be risks associated with the
implementation of Government's declared policy of relinquishing centralized
control, but it is not possible to assess at this time the degree to which
operational difficulties may be encountered.
7.09      The success or failure of the artisanal operation would also
depend on whether it would be possible to estab ish a fisheries development
program, including fish collection, credit, supply and training systems,
within the existing economic and social structure. The system, which would
be based on cash rather than the traditional barter system carried out by
dhow traders, would not work if it had to be imposed on the fishermen by
coercion. The system must therefore be one that is easily understood and
adopted by the fishermen because of a realization that it offers a solution
to some of these problems.  There is, however, no guarantee that a system
would be developed that would be both effective in the long run and
acceptable to the fishermen and the larger financial and political
community. Much would depend on the goodwill and ability of the local
leaders, Government officials and the consultants to work harmoniously with
the fishermen and the other traders who presently provide the only viable
link with the outside world.
Long-term Development
Inshore
7.10       In advance of data and lessons from the pilot project, the most
likely projections would postulate a steady expansion in fish production to
a sustainable annual level of about 5,500 tons (including production from
the UNCDF funded project to the west); an increase in domestic market



- 32 -
potential in the northwest area of Somalia to about 600 tons; a small
increase in export prices and modest additional capital expenditures,
mainly in expanding collection capabilities for fishermen production. It
is forecast that it would take about seven years to achieve this level of
activity and this plus the cost of the infrastructure and transport
investments make it a slightly less than attractive investment on financial
grounds alone. However, data from the pilot project could well indicate
that this analysis is too conservative as levels of fish production may
grow much faster than projected.
Offshore
7.11      Assuming a successful offshore pilot project phase, projections
have been made for the financial viability of future development. The
major assumptions used in the projections are:
-    Catch of 48,000 metric tons from six purse seiners.
-    Export price, cif Middle East, of US$550 per ton based on product
mix of approximately 15% large and 85% small pelagics.
-    Investment costs in harbor development and processing facilities
at Bolimog and purchase of purse seiners of US$26 million.
-    Annual processing costs of US$120 per ton.
Based on these assumptions, export earnings of approximately US$25 million,
a profitable enterprise and an attractive financial rate of return could be
expected.
7.12      The achievement of this level of production would not necessarily
be easy to accomplish. However, the lack of viable alternatives for a
country with few resources as a basis for developing the North Coast
justifies the risk inherent in the development of the pelagic fishery as a
means of ensuring the development of an inshore fishery which could in turn
have significant regional development implications for employment, income
generation, modernization and poverty alleviation. Furthermore, there is
ample reason to believe that these pilot operations in the commercial
fishery could lead to significant and profitable private sector
opportunities after the pilot stage.



- 33 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The enterprise would at all times employ a general manager and
financial controller, on terms and conditions and with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
(para. 4.13);
(b) The enterprise would employ consultants for the design of an
institutional training program and, dependent on the outcome of
the offshore exploration/pilot program, during the third year,
engineering, design and feasibility studies for a future project
involving harbor and fisheries facilities (para. 4.16);
(c) The enterprise would procure in accordance with procurement
procedures acceptable to the Association (paras. 4.26, and 4.28);
(d) The enteprise would establish and maintain its accounting system
in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
practices and principles acceptable to the Association (para.
4.32);
(e) The enterprise would appoint independent commercial auditors
acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts would be
furnished, together with the auditor's report, both in English,
to the Association within six months of the end of the financial
year (para. 4.33);
(f) The enterprise would prepare annual work programs and submit them
to the Association for acceptance by May 15 each year. The
initial work program would be prepared and furnished to the
Association within two months of signing of the loan (para.
5.17);
(g) Government would cause SDB to assign to the enterprise a loan
officer by June 30, 1985 (para. 5.19); and
(h) Government would construct a cold storage facility at Berbera by
December 31, 1985 (para. 5.20).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) Government had made available to the enterprise one of its 23 m
fiber glass combination fishing vessels for the period of the
project (para. 4.12);
(b) A subsidiary agreement between Government and the enterprise,
satisfactory to the Association, had been ratified (para. 4.23);
and,



- 34 -
(c) The DANIDA agreement with Government for the construction of the
cold storage facility had been signed (para. 5.20).
8.03      Conditions of disbursement of the vessel category would be that:
(a) The enterprise had employed consultant's services for the
implementation of the inshore fisheries program, on terms and
conditions and with qualifications and experience, satisfactory
to the Association (para 4.15); and
(b) The funds, US$3.5 million, to be provided by the Arab Fund had
been made available to the enterprise (para. 4.23)
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit on standard terms of US$13.5 million. The
borrower would be the Government of Somalia.



- 35 -
AX I
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Fish Resource
Estimates L/
Stock Densities Gulf of Aden and Adjacent Waters
('000 Tons)
Total Stock       Sustainable Yield
Large Pelagics 2/                160 -   230             60 -  80
Small Pelagics 3!                930 - 1,320            325 - 460
Demersal Species 4/              480 -   890             90 - 150
Sharks and Rays                      NA                     NA
Spiny Lobster (deep)                 NA                     NA
Spiny Lobster (shallow)              NA                     NA
Shrimp                               NA                     NA
Stock Densities Project Area 5/
Total Stock       Sustainable Yield
Large Pelagics                    20 -    35              7 -  10
Small Pelagics                   130 -   230             45.-  80
Demersal Species                  70 -   130             15 -  25
Sharks and Rays                   60 -    80                   30
Spiny Lobster (deep)                 NA                          1.5
Spiny Lobster (shallow)              NA                         0.5
Shrimp                               NA                         0.4
1/  Source FAO/NORAD, FDL, COS, IBRD.
2/ Tunas, king mackerel, etc.
3/ Sardines, mackerels, anchovies, etc.
4/  Croupers, snaflDers, etc.
5/ Excludes very substantial stocks in northern area of
Indian Ocean soastllne adjacent to northern Gulf of Aden
and project area.



- 36 -
Annex II
Page 1
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
(a) General Manager:
Responsible to:      -    Board of Directors.
Duration:            -    45 months.
Qualifications:      -    University degree in Economics, Finance
or Administration and/or relevant
management experience.
-    Five years or more field experience in
developing countries.
-    Proven general management ability.
Responsibilities:   -    Day-to-day conduct of the affairs of the
enterprise.
-    Implementation of project through two
consulting firms (artisanal and offshore
programs).
-    Marketing of production from Bolimog and
Berbera facilities.
-    Preparation of the annual budget and
work programs.
-    Regular reporting to the board.
-    Monitoring and evaluation of the
commercial and artisanal programs.
-    Coordination of activities for future
project preparation.
(b) Financial Controller:
Responsible to:      -    General Manager.
Duration:            -    36 months.
Qualifications:      -    Professional qualification in accounting
and/or equivalent university degree.



- 37 -
Annex II
Page 2
Five years minimum experience as Chief
Accountant or Controller.
Experience in developing countries.
Responsibilities:   -    Ensure that the financial obligations of
the enterprise are fulfilled efficiently
and in a timely manner.
-    Design and implement appropriate
accounting and management and
information systems.
-    Ensure that funding is available for the
contemplated operations.
-    Timely preparation and presentation of
accounts, budgets and cash flows to
the general manager for board approval.
-    Ensure that inventories and fixed assets
are adequately maintained and recorded.
-    Control of accounting and administrative
matters for the enterprise.
(c)  Consultant Firm:    -    Artisanal Fisheries
Responsible to:      -    General lIanager.
Duration:            -    36 months.
Qualifications:      -    The individuals assigned to the project
by the consultant firm would
individually and collectively have a
substantial record of administering
successful artisanal fishery development
programs in remote areas.
-    All individuals would have to have
required qualifications in their field
of discipline and have field experience
in developing countries.
Scope of Work:       -    Propose and, upon acceptance, execute
the artisanal fisheries program of the
enterprise within the agreed program and
budget.
-    Establish and operate in the project
area:--



- 38 -
Annex II
Page 3
A seafood processing plant at Bolimog,
including repairs to buildings,
workshops, landing faciliites and
slipway.
Fish receiving stations at Bossaso and
Candala.
A fish collection system for fishermen's
catch and a transport system for
transfer of frozen fish from Bolimog to
Berbera.
A fisheries development program for
artisanal fishermen which would include
improvement of present processing
practices.
Credit and supply systems for boats and
gear to artisanal fishermen.
Training program for artisanal
fishermen.
Planning, operating and mangement of the
facilities and on-the-job training of
the workers.
Data collection procedures for project
implementation.
Personnel Requirement:
Man Months
Plant manager                    -     36
Plant mechanic                   -      30
Plant refrigeration engineer   -       30
Fisheries development officer  -       24
Training officer                 -     24
Construction supervisor          -     24
Short-term consultants
(including fishing vessel
procurement, monitoring and
evaluation and sociological
studies)                                12
180



- 39 -
An._  II
Page 4
Reporting:
- Quarterly reports by components on the project progress
to the general manager and copied to IDA.
- Annual work program by components to the general
manager by April 1 each year and  to IDA by
May 15 for approval.
-  Draft final reports on results to general manager
and IDA by project closing date.  This would include inter
alia: (a) estimated inshore resource potential/major
commercial species; (b) fishery gear/method recommended; (c)
boat performance, recommendations and alternatives; (d)
outcome of collection, processing and trans-shipment schemes;
and (e) outcome of fishery development, training and credit
programs.
(d)  Consulting Firm;    -    Offshore fisheries.
Responsible to:      -    General Manager.
Duration:            -    30 months.
Qualifications:      -    The personnel and subcontractors of the
consultant firms which are assigned to
the project will have a substantial
record of:
- designing, executing and
professionally reporting fisheries
stock assessment and management
programs, particularly with regard to
pelagic species;
- designing, organizing and executing
successful pelagic commercial fishing
development programs in remote areas;
- purse seining for pelagic species,
both small and large, of operating
refrigerated sea water/brine freezing
seiners; and of conducting successful
continuous seining operations on a
detached basis in remote areas, where
weather is sometimes boisterious and
currents strong; and experience of
the use of light attraction and
floating rafts;
- fish handling and processing at sea;
- fish marketing.



- 40 -
Annex II
Page 5
Scope of Work:       -    Propose and, upon acceptance, execute
the offshore pilot/exploratory test
fishing program of the enterprise within
the agreed program and budget.
-    The purpose of the program is to
determine the future commercial
potential of the valuable pelagic
stocks by establishing: (a) catch
rates; (b) fishing grounds (seasonal);
(c) most appropriate fishing gear;
(d) operational base for vessel
activities; (e) local crew performance
and training needs; (f) biological data;
(g) test handling and processing
procedures and trial marketing; and (h)
collect detailed data on costs.
-    Ensure that the purse seiners, provided
under contract, are adequately fitted
out to conduct the trials.
-    Ensure that qualified observers are on
board at all times during the fishing
operations to take the required
measurements.
-    In consultation with the General
Manager, decide on the best method for
disposing of the catch.
-    Establish and implement data collection
procedures for project implementation.
Personnel Requirement:
Man Months
Party Chief                      -     36
Logistic Coordinator             -     24
Data Collectors (3 x 24)         -     72
132



- 41 -
Annex I
Page 6
Reporting:
- Quarterly cruise plans to general manager for
approval and adoption, copied to IDA for information.
- Quarterly reports on data collected to general
manager and copied to IDA for information.
- Annual work program to general manager by April 1
of each year and to IDA by May 15 for approval.
- Final report of results and interpretations of fishing
trials to general manager and IDA by December 31, 1986.



- 42 -
ATNEX Il11
Table I
UWIN
FISHERIES EPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Sumars  ccunt bo Project Coeonent
(So.Sh)
Plhsical
TECHNICAL                      Contingencies
ASSISTANCE AND
1NSHORE FISHERIES OFFSHORE FISHERIES COWAOY COSTS    TRAINING            Total              Aeount
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL IORKS                              13,095,220.0                    -             -               -   13,095,220.0 10.0  1,309,522.0
Physical Contineocies                     1,309,522.0                   -              -               -    1,309,522.0  0.0          00
Price Cootingencies                       3,365,319.7                   -              -               -    3,365,319.7  9.1    305,930.2
Suob-Total INCLUDING CWTNT ENCIES           17,770,061.7                   -              -               -   17,770,061.7  9.1  1,615,460.2
Foreign Exchane                           6,475,021.9                   -              -               -    6,475,021.9  9.1    580,630.4
B. VEHICLE AUD EQUIPMENT                    29,044,158.6                   -   1,014,110.2                -   30,858,276.8 10.0  3,085,827.7
9oosic3l Contingencies                    2,904,415.9                   -      101,411.8               -    3,085,827.7  0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                       S,751,234,9                   -      303,582.7               -    9,054,817.6  9.1    823,165,2
Suob-Total INCLUDING CDNTJNGENCIES          41,579,809.4                   -   1,419,112.7                -   42,998.922.1  9.1  3,908,992.9
Foreign Exchange                         37,300,881.6                   -   1,280,840.9                -   30,581,722.5  9.1  3,507,429.3
C. OfFSNORE FISHERIES                                   -       75,830,460.0              -               -   75,030,460.0  0.0           0.0
Price Continoencies                                  -       19,557,763.3              -               -   19,557,763.3  0.0           0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       -       95,3SS,223.3              -               -   95,3B8,223.3  0.0           0.0
Foreis  Exchange                                     -       95,388,223.3              -               -   95,388,223.3  0.0           0.0
D. FISHERIES CREDIT PR0GRA                  9,624,986.7                   -              -               -    9,624,986.7  0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                       2,971,332.7                   -              -               -    2,971,332.7  0.0           0.0
Suob-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          12,596,319.4                    -             -               -   12,596,319.4  0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchaige                         11,992,15.0                    -              -               -   1l,2,lBS.0  0.0             0.0
E. VESSELS                                  14,465,650.0         3,349,940.0              -               -   17,815,590.0  0.0           0.0
Price Cootinaencies                       3,265,110.0           734,008.7              -               -    3,99,126.7  0.0            0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES           17,730,760.0         4,083,948.7              -               -   21,814,716.7  0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchamn                          17,730,760.0         4,083.948.7              -               -   21,814,716.7  0.0           0.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANT AN  TRAINING                     -                  -              -   46,746,890.0   46,746,890.0  0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                                 -                   -              -   13,094,263.2   13,994,263.2  0.0            0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      -                   -              -   60,641,153.2   60,641,153.2  0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchaoe                                      -                                 -   54,587,154.5   54,587,154.5  0.0            0.0
6. REFLND OF PPF, INVESTMENT COSTS                      -                  -      676,078.8               -      676,078.8 10.0      67,607.9
Physical Contingencies                              -                   -       67,607.9              -        67,607.9  0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                  -                  -      103,532.0               -      103,532.0  9.1       9,412,0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       -                  -      847,218.7               -      847,218.7  9.1      77,019.9
Foreign Exchante                                     -                  -      773,520.0               -      773,520,0  9.1      70,320.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         67,030,015.3        79,180,400.0   1,690,197.0   46,746,890.0  194,647,502.3  2.3  4,462,957.6
Physical Continencies                        4,293,937.9                   -      169,019.7               -    4,462,957.6  0.0           0,0
Price Continsencies                         18,353,005.2        20,291,772.0      407,114.7   13,894,263.2   52,946.155.0  2.2  1,138,515.4
Total INCLUDING CONTIN6ENCIES                  89.676,958.4        99,472,172,0   2,266,331.4   60,641,153.2  252,056,614,9  2.2  5,601,472,9
Foreign Exchange                            73,498,856,4        99,472,172.0   2,054,360.9   54,587,154.5  229,612,543.7  1.8  4,166,387.7
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                         15.836,0D0.0         9,273,243.0   8,246,328.0   20,008,278.0  53,363.929.0  6.5  3,457,381.1
Physical Contingencies                   1,477,019.0           927,324.3      824,632.0      228,405.0    3,457,381.1  0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                      5,837.254.3         3,081,479.7   2,680,855.4    6.509.217.9   18,109,807.3  6.1  1,103,478.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          23,150,353.3        13,282,047.0  11,752,816.2   26,745,900.9   74,931,117.4  6.1  4,560,859.9
Foreign Exchange                        20,417,024.5        12,299,651.6   7,170,813.0  22,999,553.2   62,887,042.2  5.9  3,600,065.7
B. REFLND OF PPF, OPERATING COSTS                      -                  -      443,448.0    3,930,530.0    6,381,978.0  0.7       44,344.0
Physical Contiotencies                              -                  -      44,344.8               -        44,344.8  0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                 -                  -       10,118.1      825,903.0       044,021.1  0.2       1,647.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                      -                  -      505,910.9    6,764,433.0    7,270,343.9  0.6       45,991.9
Foreisn Exchane                                     -                  -      135,366.0   6.170,580.0    6,305,946.0  0.2        12,306.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                          15,836,000.0         9,273,243.0   8,689,776.0   25,946,808.0   59,745,907.0  5.9  3,501,725.9
Physical Contingencies                       1,477,019.0           927,324.3      860,977.6      228,405.0    3,501,725.9  0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                          5.837,254.3         3,081,479.7   2,699,973.5    7,335,120.9  18,953,828.4  5.8  1,105,125.9
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                  23,150,353,3        13,282,047.0  12,258,727.1   33,510,333.9   82,201U461.3  5.6  4,606,851.8
Forei4n Exchame                             20,417,024,5        12,299,651.6   7,306,179.0  29,170,133.2   69,192,988.2  5.3  3,692,371.7
Total DASELINE COSTS                            82,866,095.3        88,453,643.0  10,379,973,0   72,693,698.0  254,393,409.3  3.1  7,964,683.5
Phvsical Contingeocies                        5,770,956.9           927,324.3   1,037,997.3       228,405.0    7,964,603.5  0.0            0.0
Price Contingencies                          24,190,259.6        23,373,251.6   3,107,088.1   21,229,384,1   71,899,983.4  3.1  2,243,641.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                             112,827,311.8      112,754,218.9  14,525,053.4   94,151,407.1  334,258,076.2  3.1 10,208,324.8
Foreign Exchange                             93,915,880.9       111,771,823.5   9,360,539.8  83,757,207.6  298,805,531.9  2.6  7,850,759.4
Februars 23, 1984  11:11



- 43 -
Annex III
Table 2
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Eight-Meter Motorized Fishing Boat
(Somali Shilling)
Year 1   Years 2-4   Years 5-10   Year 11
I.  Cash Inflow
Gross Sales 1/             (1)   145,800      182,250      218,700      218,700
Borrower's Contribution 2/        34,375
Loan Amount 3/                   309,375
Total Cash Inflow          (2)   489,550      182,250      218,700      218,700
II. Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Fuel Lubrication 4/            26,250       26,250       26,250
Maintenance - Vessel 5/        16,000       16,000       16,000
- Gear 6/          8,000        8,000        8,00o
Ice 7/
Miscellaneous R/                5,000        5,000        5,000
Insurance 9/                   10,300       10,300       10,300
Crew Share 10/                 34,390       50,015       65,635
Total Operating Cost  (3)    99,940        115,565      131,185      131,1R5
Investment Cost 11/        (4)   343,750                                (50,000)
Debt Service 12/                  37,125       54,754       54,754       54,754
Total Cash Outflow         (5)   480,815      170,319      185,939      135,939
III.  Net Cash Flow              (6)      8,735       11,931       32,761      82,761
IV. Financial Benefits-Costs
Benefits (1)              (7)    145,800      182,250      218,700      218,700
Costs    (3) + (4)        (8)    443,690      115,565      131,185       81,185
Net Benefit (7) - (8)   (9)   (297,890)        66,685       87,515      137,515
Financial Rate of Return: 13/ 23%
1/  Saleable catch of 135 kg per day for 180 days = 24.3 tons at
7.5 So. Sh. kg per kilo. Increased to
9 So. Sh. per kg in Year 5. Year 1 catch 80% of
full development.
2/  10% of investment cost.
3/ Loan covers cost of vessel and fishing gear (343,750 So. Sh.)
less borrowers contribution as down payment.
4/  Based on 20 liters per day and lubrication of 10% of fuel cost.
Fuel price of 6.63 So. Sh. per liter.
5/  5% of investment cost per annum.
6/  33% of investment cost per annum.
7/  Ice provided by Company.
8/  5,000 So. Sh. per annum.
9/  3% of investment cost per annum.
10/ Share of gross catch 1 share for each of 3 crewmen, 2 shares for
Boat Owner, I for Captain and 1 for Boat Owner/Captain as crew member.
11/ Residual value after 11 years 50,000 So. Sh.
12/ Interest at 12% per annum only paid in Year 1. Balance over 10 years with
interest at 12% per annum.
13/ See para. 7.03



- 44 -
ANEX I10
Table 3
SOMALIA
FISBERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Enterprise- Inshore Fisheries, Profit and Loss Statement
(Somali Shillings 'iOOo)
Yle-  I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Yeor 5  Ylos  6   Year 7
Gross Sials
-  Beer - T.o.                                        500   1,100   1,300   1,500         1,500    1,500
-  Boliog                                            820   1,670   2,200   3,000   3,500    4,000
1,320   2,770   3,500   4,500   5,000    5,500
Local - Voi-e                      1/            3,400   5,100   6,800   8,500  10,200   10S200
Eipoet                            2/            20,462  45,127  61,380  79,200  87,120   97,020
23,862  50,227  68,180  87,700  97,320  107,220
PFrohson of Fish
-  Beoboos                            3/            6,000  13,200  15,600  IB,OOi  IB,OCi   IB,OOO
-  Boli.og                            4/            6,150  12,525  16,500  22,50C  31,500   36,000
12,150  25,725  32,100  40,500  49,500   54,000
Tle..sport oB Fish
-       Collector vessel              5/   1,218   1,218   1,218   1,218   2,436   2,43o    2,436
-  Tennopoet Bolimog/berbera          6/            6,000   6,000   6,        6,0 6,00i   6,000    6,000
-  Truck Tes..port Boli-g/O-rb-es 7/                 IOB      IOB      135     162      162       162
-  HBndling Costs Bbehers             S/              990   2,077   2,625   3,375   3,750    4,123
1,218   8,316   9,403   9,978  11,973  12,348   12,723
Opoenting Costs - bolisog
Bosa..o osd Candolo
S iiseis sod WEgos                9/            1,285   1,716   2,138   2,502   2,538    2,538
-  FPel                              10/            2,741   2,741   3,015   3,289   3,563    3,837
-  bainten-oce FlPst S Boildings  11/                 695   1,390   1,390   1,390   1,390    1,390
-   oses-                          2/350                    350      350     330      300       350
-  Pkgig M         il                13/              377      768   1,012   1,380   1,610    1,840
-  Mi-oelisse-oo                     14/              450      450     450      450      450      450
5,898   7,415   8,355   9,361   9,901   10,405
Op-ertig Cots - Berbera
-  Sil-ies and Woge-                15/            1,328   1,328   1,678   1,998   2,041    2,041
-  Fool                              16/            1,864   1,864   2,050   2,237   2,237    2,237
-   i.tistens.ce Flsot 6 Boildingo  17/               685      685     685      685      685       685
-  Isn--anee                         18/              228      228     228      228      228      228
-  Pseksgiog  toterials              19/              228      503     594      891      891       891
-  Mi-snllsno..s                     20/              450      450     450      450      450       450
4,783   5,058   5,685   6,489   6,532    6,532
Entoeprise Costs                          21/
-  Sis-ri-s sod Wages                        443      407      407     407      407      407      407
-  Office Re-t                               457      305      305     305      305      305      305
-  T-ovel sod Slbsiot....                    610      609      609     609      609      609       609
-  Air Chartor                             1,523      761      761     761      761      761      761
-  Operating Costs Vohiclos                  183      122      122     122      122      122       122
-  Office R.n. ig Etpo.ses                   457      304      304     304      304      304      304
3,673   2,508   2,508   2,508   2,508   2,508    2,508
Total Opoesting Costs                        4,891  33,655  50,109  58,626  70,831  80,789   86,168
Not Pocfit/(Lo..) befoer
Dep-enintio_ 22/  (4,891) (9,793)    118   9,554  16,869  16,531   21,052
Notes to Cosh Fln  Pe-j-etios - C.epsy.
I/  Based on soiling peiee o-plsot of 17 Sn Sh pee kg foe losi  -arket.
Year 2 sales in B-eb-es, bargeiss and boRsn--200 tons;s Ye- 3--300 to.s
Year 4-408 tons; Yle, 5--S00 too; Yle- 6 owards--600 tons.
2/  Booed os price CIFP Sodi US,400 pee ton less transport sod   rket
Conossins of IJB$200 per too--FOB Beb-rb U0S1,200 per ton (18,270 SB Sh).
Year 4 onwards avee.go price of 0091,300 per ton (19,800 in Sh) FOB Brbers.
3/  Based on s p-echas.  price of 12 Sn Sh per kg ot plont.
4/ Based on a porhbase prior of 7.5 Si Sb per kg in Bolieng ore- and is
Year 6 intr.ase no 9 Sn Bh per kg.
5/  Costs of o            .lle .tor vessel Basasso, Codla., Bolimg.  Used in Yle-  1 as a
deli-ere  .essel for ispots to Bolimg.  Becond collectoe vessol istrod..ed
in Ye_ 5.
6/  Cstes of transport of f.enes fish Boliong to Beeber.
7/  Ir-ok trsnopsos ition Balimog sad  otlying villoges  .nd Boe.so./Elsyn.
Years 2 med 3, 600 So Sh per dsy; Ye-r 4, 750 So Sh; Ylon 5 -oseds
900 Bom Sh for 180 days per snow.
8/  E ndling .oss. t orbers foe off- sod no-inodiog fish to  soels, vehicles
and plst ot toot of 750 SB Sh p-e to.
9/  Detsiled sepsestely.
10/  1,500 lite../doy ot US0340 per ton dsty free, oppros. US500/dsy or
US915,000 per month (228,400 So Sh) op to Yle-  3.  Isorese of 102
per .s..- through Yle- 6.
11/  Plet an St of isvssteont .o.t of So Sh 21,000,000 sod Bnilding ot 21
of invostme.t .ost of SB  Sh 14,O0O,000--507  of moust for Ye- 2.
12/  1i  of iseesteset .o.t.
13/  400 S. Sh per ton.
IT/  450,000 So Oh p-e 0mm-.
15/  Dotoilod sops-tely.
16/  1,000 litees   dsy *t US340 poe tno  - US0340 per dsy or 0810.,200
pe  mooth (155,315 SB  Sh) op to Year 3.  1norsoo of 102 per ano-     .
thessgh Yle- 5.
17/  3X o invesoetst nest of 22,500,000 So Sh.
18/  it of ineestuont  ost.
IT/  460 So Sh per ton.
To/  450,000 So Sh pee asosm
21/  Detsilod oeprately.
22/  S:o pars.  7.10



- 45 -
Annex III
Table 4
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Enterprise - Inshore Fisheries Cost Per Ton
(US Dollars)
US$/ton
Transport of Fish                          Year 2          676
(FOB as at Berbera)                    Year 3           375
Year 4          302
Year 5          266
Year 6          235
Year 7 --       212
Processing Bolimog                         Year 2          479
Year 3          296
Year 4          253
Year 5          208
Year 6          188
Year 7 --       173
Processing Berbera                         Year 2          637
and Storage of Bolimog Produce             Year 3          306
(Based on Processing tonnage)              Year 4          291
Year 5          288
Year 6 --       290



- 46 -
Annex III
Table 5
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements (US$ '000)
Fiscal Year      Quarter Ending       By End of Quarter       Cumulative
1984           June       1984            600                   600
1985           September 1984             700                 1,300
December  1984           1,000                2,300
March      1985          1,000                3,300
June       1985          1,200                4,500
1986           September 1985           1,500                6,000
December  1985           1,500                7,500
March      1986          1,400                8,900
June       1986          1,400               10,300
1987           September 1986           1,200               11,500
December  1986             700               12,200
March      1987            700                12,900
June       1987            400               13,300
1988           September 1987             100               13,400
December  1987             100               13,500
Expected date of signing:          May       1984
Expected date of effectiveness:  July        1984
Expected completion date:           July     1987
Expected closing date:             December 1987



- 47 -
Annex IV
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.        Somalia Agricultural Sector Review.  Document of the World Bank,
Report No. 2881a-SO, June 29, 1981.
2.        Draft Report of the Somalia Fisheries Development Project
Identification Mission. Document of FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme Investment Centre, Report No. 16/81 SOM 7, April 28,
1981.
3.        North Somalia Fishing Project.  Document of Government of Somalia
prepared by Fisheries Develoment Limited, July, 1982.



- 48 -
ANNEX V
SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Table of Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex I            Processing, Shore Facilities and Fish Collection
Annex II            Physical and Biological Characteristics and
Fisheries Resources
Annex III          Fish Marketing
Annex IV           Offshore Fisheries
Annex V            Artisanal Fisheries
Annex VI           Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex VII          Frequency of Wind Direction and Force at Sea
Annex VIII         Detailed Cost Tables.



SOMALIA
riSHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Mlnhstry d Rsheres - Organfzatoon Chart
Mister
lZhstor Gsnerol                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Director Gerwol
F1stlg  earl          Fleet                                                                      ras A cionn sr t ypin g
R  h                                                 .                        _bJa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cnch  _
Pta~~~esslng &  teoMical                                                                  ClhlsrehFinnce-enwGeneral
Mbiketlng  Ubrary                                                                  Supp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&Velr &Flie.Miteac
Flgwems           C*WmqNtgeao                                          sttitcsExediu                                   MeseNg                   CleaningtPesoa
|  Irenditu    |               Crdi  Deeot||C9erh                                           l l           onctro    |Al |   eSa e                        Oes  |                        FiesonJ     
|   Staf                                              R  41a er L2 t    |      Qailly                  1,0 Pa0 1                Tranisltion                TA:gng             
i raWng                       l                         >tosrManorn9nt  _         ectbn                Acm                        Srvie                    Sirto
Inipectorat. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ abraor
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-



SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart for the Enterprise
Monttoxng & Evaluation
Coordiro ihn     C
Consultants                                       consultants                                         F  Rnanciol & Candaoe                                                                          CDCold
Ofshore                                           Artisanal                                         ControlFer                                       Store nc her
I sub-contract    |I R                       Con        L | edimgi cillts   | |                   i               ENTERPRISE    |             oordlainM Ln.           5n       d 
Prs Seiners                                                                                A- f                     Aconk Sydn^  ra l    aai  I |re11 ,     O" r1 ra), Zelo Caitch | .  
Catch Rates             Oceanogrphi|   R     5h                             re     nent                      |                                             sales
Obser~vtlom                 0 MDvlpnn
Catch Disposal                 Trial                 pCpt sup sltey                   s br  |
Tials                   Marketing                                       Boats & Gear
mmf 3f &                    CcEiM          l           T**k                   M q  ibng &
Wald Bo-25261
ritT



SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - By Task
1983             19U4                    46                      1986                     1987
3    4     1    2      3     4      I    2    3    4       1     2    3      4      1    2    3      4
BEIMPR?ISE
Extdb*.tr_ent
RFcasa nCwnt - Co   a                                  . .
ARIISANAL CCMPONENt
Bobwo
Pacessing Plant                                         _           _   _ *  =               - _    _  _              _
Landing Place
CMI Works                                               _          _ , _
Fish ReceMng                                                                     _
CMI Workcs-
lenowvting Jetty                                                                  _   _ 
Caindala
Rsh ReceMog                                                                                      -g
CMI Workcs-
Vessels - Rcurement Trandgmpnt                              _
Renoatlon - Collector
Collector System                             ..                       .            - _ _  _
Fishing Boats & Gear                                                       .       -    -      -           _ -    -          _
F lsheies Develpment Ptogvam                                                      s... a. *  _ _
TImining Program                                                                  ..          -      -     - _  _
Monhtoetng & Evaluotion                                    _            - _        _     - _          _  
OFfSHORE
Technical Design                                    ..........
Techncal implementotion                                                - __
Technical Evaluotion                                                                     - _
Renovation - Sport Vesel_
Purse Seine Operatlore                   _ _  _  _                                   _         _ 
Rsre Praoect Preparation
Engineering, Design & Feasty
Studies (40 man months)
**--- -  Procuens                                                                                                                                                                 C
-     hsien'untot1on                                                                                                     M4b1 Bank-25262                                     L
.  _  _ * t T                                                                                                                        rt  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SOMALIA
FISHERIES EXPLORATION/PILOT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - By Post
1983             .984                    1985                    1986                   1987
3    4    i    2       3    4      1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4       i    2    3    4
ENTERPRISE
General Manager          m...
Financial Controller                     a.. . _  _               -    - .
ARTISANAL CONSULTANTS        .    .     ..    .
Plant Manager 
Construction Supervisor                          -                      - __-
Plant Mechanic
Refrigeration Engineer                                      -              . -      -                _     _ -  -
Fisheries Development                                             --                      -     -    -      -
Tralning                                                                -    -    -       -          -      -
Shgt-Tetm
OFFSHORE CONSULTANTS                  ... mm..
Operations
Parhy Chief                                         -     -    -                              _
Logistic Coordinator                                                          ES
Vessels
Data Collectors (3)
OTHER CONSULTANCIES
National Training             ... ..r*
Future Project Preparation                                                                      _                                                   rr X
saw ma... Rectuhrrent
_~~ nImpleentation                                                                                                  Wodd Banrk-25263



IBRD 17262
A RAE REP OF.,                                                                                                  4 41 8'                                                                                  JUNE 1983
FEGYPYI   SARABIA                                                         SOMALIA
r-            *9'>,   rr o                     FISHERIES EXPLORATION / PILOT PROJECT
SUDAN          AYEME.YEMEN                                     PROJECT   LOCATION
ETHIOPI A'4re ol Mo bO    Project areo and approximate oreo
of offshore operotio::
_>      \                                                     -ss,  /  Metcilled roads                                                .
U9ANDt.      'IO6b                                                 Tracks                                                           :Az:         ::tNE        :    E   : 
ZAIRE ('  _KENYA                              ,Orltours (200- meter in:tervaI
RWANDA/.    "                                                                                                                       ~~                    ~~                ;       ~'
tt In > / SEYCHtLLEs- !nTernatick,nalt Boundories 0 . g: : 0 : 3 n ;:: ^: a:; :0: :A;te  ci: onot Bo:ndaries
~IBURUNDI  N!        SEYCHELLES
TANZANIA". '2°                                                                                                                                           A.;b                                           12
.'^ '-...                                              0    o :           100      130::             : 200    l:  :    ;    2    ;    5t    AED},mog--l<> 
44'                     FIEOMETERY                                                                                                     bom                -
DOJIBOUTI                                                                                                                                              tse.
-~~~                                                                    C6ndolo -~~~~~~ ~~   K3~~~ -~~~ ,~C d/
DJ I BOUT I /      Ze"I                             I       /               /  (            /t*1
__a                                                                                                                                           10K
Be,her.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bne  ej
l f 9 < t / X esldornen snt a acaPpeancs of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hh~h r~ OO S
4405/1/700 )/0 'OE S4°O-7i  :5
E T H I 0 P I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lWo / <0 5
IL  44'                           46' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTO  ~552'



I
I
I
I
I
I                                                                                        I
i
i
I



IBRD 17263
44                                                          48                                                            JUNE 1983
X            44 12'                                                        Ad a n                                A  -                       4i--f
-12° .DJ IBOU T i 
N "  Cndn'a         Bargal1y'   '1
N~~~~ (''\
-Bender BeilI
SOMALIA                                               -8
FISHERIES EXPLORATION / PILOT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF DEMERSAL AND PELAGIC FISH ON THE
SOMALIA COAST DURING THE NORTHEAST MONSOON, 1975-76
S.chool Density.
very  scottere                      Rivers                              /                                   /
scattered                          Regional Boundaries
dense                   -    -    International Boundaries/'..
Obb,a
E   T   H   I  0   P  I  A                                  .                                                 N'.
/Th rtap has bees prepared by
The Wand Bank's staB -eweeely
far the --eeie-n o t he
readers and is ex-iuei-eey for the
- s   -  f na usot rhe Ws,td Bank
and the ht-trnt-el Financ
Csrpsrtiee The de-e-meton
and and the hsunar,- sh-e
a     -n tts nap de na ihply. as the
.Prt at The Wend Bask and the
/ntemational Finance Corneraton,
nzj/,>9 any jedgstfest an the lat-t                                                                                                                                    statfs
'f any territory or any
ed--emet  .er eetae- et
seh .-hedariee.
5 2.
ierna .OGA()ISCIO                                          <                                            -                                                  SAUDI ARABIA  ~
tL                   <    S / MOtv>AD~~~~~~~CISCIO                                                      \>       8YtE\    E/E
a k   < <   Merctl          !                            SUDAN                      ARAB '           a
C   >   ,  <   Br_>ra v                     I                                 _S                (DJIB,PUTI t1
! , - ,, , EETHIOPIA )
tY,smoyo     ''   0   rin  
0            tOO °    r  }020D          300 KILOMETERS                  UGANDA)                           Mogadts$io
W\ / 0               100                    200 tILES                          L     , V.C
.Sorce  /rn5tiete- ol hfrtrine RSeerwrch, Berg*nt                                                                . f   a
\  44'                                                       48            TANZANIA
I~~~~~~~~~~~44                                                                           4 I 






IBRO 17264
'JUNE 1983
m~~~~~~~~~~~~C :
12-
-12°               ./DJ IBOU    I'°~
g    <ul8~~~BOLJTI
C6ndala
Ei of Bossaso
\   '" ""'     -,          '  "" '-                  .'   O jtrI .'   >    5    
m                                                          ---_
Khoe
*I - ~   -  .  -  / -                            f/ Bender Beilc
N.                                                  C                                                 /
SOMALIA                                                  - . 
FISHERIES EXPLORATION / PILOT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF DEMERSAL AND PELAGIC FISH ON THE
SOMALIA COAST DURING THE SOUTHWEST MONSOON, 1975  ./                                                                                    /
School Density:
very  scattered             -  _-   Rivers
1       scattered                             Regional Boundaries /                                                                           / -  :            /7f     .
dense                       --   International Boundarie2|
Obbio
g  ^  /              '                     This maP has been prepared bY
The WDdd Banr's staf issclss-efy
v>   ~~~~~~~~~ :      /   .                                        {r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tr the convernierre ot the
readers -d is e-sh-shefy ta the
hinterrral ue of The WOrld Bank
and th. ,e-hrt -atoo ylnan
Crperab ,sy The dane-naiseon 4
osed arid the hosadariris hsra
en thsmp de -ot hnpi. n the
-ert ot The Wrld eark and the
/                                                  sta /  . . ui -  IrnheonatFmnanre CePbrahen.
aiy jedginynt Dn thie Ftet rtahus
St aiy terrtry or any
enderseinent or -iceptarie ot
r                                                                                                                     irise~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sl herada-e
SAUDI ARABIA
OMAN
Si~ -   t.   .        -      ^  - ; -     . -/  /  MOGADISCIO                                                                  \        ,                PDR
tCO                                                            SUDAN            iK,rsi>Si  \   E       *YEMENr,
. rosne rct                                   L                                                                           ASUDAN    ARAB
ETHIOPIA
tYsist77cryo                                                                     -, %g ,arao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-sno     .
0            100            200            300 KiLOMETERS                    UGANDA5                 i jogcdiscio
I J  r   e   |   ,                                   J      KENYA                  M
0                      100                     200 MILES                           /V.sio,is                         'Si t   d   Sn
Sotri- I,rSt,struti  r1o AfoIr,-e Researycli. B,ern
TANZANIA
44ri                                                             48'



