DOFFC AL      CREDIT NUMBER 1465 SO
DOCUMNENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fisheries Exploration/Pilot Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBEIR 1465 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       NA  ^--, 1984,
between  SOMALI DEMOCRATIC   REPUBLIC   (hereinafter  called  the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by,extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called Arab Fund) a
loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to three million five hundred thousand United States dollars
(USS3,500,000) to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Arab Fund;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the North East Coast
Fisheries Enterprise (hereinafter called the Enterprise) with the
Borrowar's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Bor-
rower will make available to the Enterprise the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿- 2 -
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Area" means the area located in the eastern
part of the north coast of Somalia along the gulf of Aden,
including the districts of Alula, Candala and Bossaso.
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 12, 1981 and
January 27, 1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Enterprise of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supple-
mental to the Project Agreement.
(d)  "Subsidiary  Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered by the Borrower and the Enterprise pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTfLE II
The Credit
Section 2,01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twelve million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 12,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit


﻿-3-
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association snall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1994, and ending November 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of the Enterprise and such
uthei person or persons as he shall designate in writing are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purpose of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restric-
tion upon any of its other obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Enterprise to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agree-
ment all th,, obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable the Enterprise to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Enterprise under a subsidiary loan agreement
(the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Enterprise under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, including: (i) an
interest rate of 12% per annum; (ii) the foreign exchange risk to
be borne by the Borrower; and (iii) no payment of interest and
repayment of principal to be made by the Enterprise before a
financing plan has been completed pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement.
(c) Upon completion of the financing plan referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall decide, in
consultation with the Association and the Enterprise (i) on the
interest payments and repayment period under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and (ii) whether the Borrower transforms parts of the
proceeds made available under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement into
equity of the Enterprise.


﻿- 5 -
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rig'its under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. By June 30, 1985, the Borrower shall cause the
Somali Development Bank to assign to the Enterprise a qualified
and experienced loan officer to assist the Enterprise in carrying
out the Enterprise's credit program to fishermen included in
Part A.7 of the Project.
Section 3.03. By June 30, 1987, or such later date as the
Association may agree, the Borrower shall: (a) based on the
results of the test program included in Part B.1 of the Project
and in consultation with the Association, decide future invest-
ments of the Borrower in harbor and fisheries facilities in the
Project Area; and (b) submit a financing plan therefor to the
Association.
Section 3.04. By December 31, 1985, the Borrower shall
construct a cold storage facility with storage capacity of at
least 400 tons at Berbera.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) The Enterprise shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Enterprise will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c)  Law No. 13 of March 4, 1984 establishing the Enter-
prise as 4n Autonomous Enterprise shall have been amended, sus-
pended, a -c.gated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially


﻿-6-
and adversely the ability of the Enterprise to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Enterprise or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Arab Fund Loan shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the Arab Fund Loan Agreement, or
(B) The Arab Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, can-
cellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) (i)
(B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 7 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Enterprise;
(b) an    agreement  between   the   Borrower   and  Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA) has been signed; such
agreement to provide for funding for the construction of a cold
storage facility at Berbera; and
(c) the Borrower has made available to the Enterprise one
of its 23 m. fiberglass combination fishing vessels under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Enterprise and is
legally  binding  upon   the  Borrower  and  the  Enterprise  in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Enterprise, and is legally binding upon the
Enterprise in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03, The date                 ; &        is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 8 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic
Mogadishu, Somalia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By  J '
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed             Expenditures
in SDR                  to be
Category              Equivalent)              Financed
(1) Vessels, and         2,480,000              100% of foreign
operating costs                            expenditures
and 50% of local
expenditures
(2) Charter of           3,820,000              100% of foreign
purse seiners                              expenditures
(3) Fishing gear,          380,000              100% of foreign
vehicles and                               expenditures and
office equip-                              90% of local
ment                                       expenditures
(4) Technical            4,110,000              100% of foreign
assistance                                expenditures
(5) Other materials,       670,000              100% of foreign
equipment and                              and 50% of local
services                                   expenditures
(6) Refunding of          530,000              Amount due
Project
Preparation
Advance
(7) Unallocated            910,000
TOTAL    12,900,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or ser-
vices, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policies of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) for
expenditures under Category (1), unless the proceeds of the Arab
Fund Loan have been made available to the Enterprise, and the
consultants to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C.2 of
the Project have been employed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) correspondingly reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures there-
under shall have been made.


﻿- 11 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to determine the
feasibility and financial viability of offshore catching of a
variety of pelagic species in the North Somali waters, and (ii)
to test critical assumptions for the development of the artisanal
fisheries in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Inshore Fisheries
1.   Installation  of fish   receiving, processing  and   service
facilities at Bolimog.
2.   Rehabilitation of existing buildings, including 8 houses for
senior staff of the Enterprise and 24 smaller houses for factory
personnel at Bolimog.
3.   Repairs of and extension to the existing landing places at
Bolimog, Bossaso and Habo.
4.   Construction of small fish receiving stations at Bossaso and
Candala.
5.   Modification, renovation and operation of the existing land-
ing craft.
6.   Acquisition and operation of a trans-shipment vessel.
7.   Acquisition  of  up  to   28 motorized  fishing  boats   and
provision of credits to fishermen operating in the Project Area
to purchase such boats.
8.   Provision of vehicles and equipment for the Enterprise.
Part B:   Offshore Fisheries
1.   Carrying out of a pilot/exploratory test program of purse
seine fishing in the Project Area during a period of up to 24
months, including the charter of two purse seine fishing vessels.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Modification, renovation and operation of a small fleet
combination fishing vessel for the support of offshore fishing
operations.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
1.   Strangthening of the management of the Erterprise.
2.   Planning and analysis of the operations under Part A above.
3.   Planning and analysis of the carrying out of Part B.1 above.
4.   Design of an institutional training program in the fisheries
sector.
5.   Engineering, design and feasibility studies for a future
project consisting of the construction of harbor and fisheries
facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  -u2,      day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


