                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26163

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-43300; IDA-34530)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 225 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                                KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT FUND




                                             JUNE 20, 2003




Environment and Social Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2003)

                   Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
               Indonesian Rupiah = US$ 1
                          US$ 1 = Rps. 850,000.00

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AJI                 Association of Independent Journalist
Bappenas            National Development Planning Agency
BPKP                Government Audit Agency
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
DPRD II             Local Parliaments
EIRR                Economic Internal Rate of Return
FAO                 Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI                 Government of Indonesia
KDP                 Kecamatan Development Program
Kecamatan           Subditrict
LP3ES               Social and Economic Research Institute
NGO                 Non-Government Organization
NMC                 National Management Consultant
NTT                 East Nusa Tenggara
O & M               Operation and Maintenance
OED                 Operation Evaluation Department
PMD                 Community Development Agency
UNDP                United Nation Development Program
UPK                 Kecamatan Financial Management Unit
VIP                 Village Infrastructure Project
WSSLIC              Water and Sanitation for Low Income Communities




                  Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
       Country Manager/Director:     Andrew D. Steer
        Sector Manager/Director:     Maria Teresa Serra
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      John Victor Bottini

                                         INDONESIA
                               ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P045337                                                      Project Name: ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND
Team Leader: John Victor Bottini                                         TL Unit: EASES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 20, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: ID-KECAMATAN DEV FUND                                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-43300; IDA-34530
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (21%); General agriculture, fishing
                            and forestry sector (20%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (20%); General education sector (20%); General
                            public administration sector (19%)
                  Theme: Civic engagement, participation and community driven development
                            (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Other social protection and risk management (S);
                            Gender (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    06/27/1997                                        Effective: 07/30/1998              08/25/1998
   Appraisal:    03/16/1998                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/02/1998                                         Closing: 09/30/2002               12/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA/MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum                                 Jean Michel Severino
Country Director:          Andrew D. Steer                                     Dennis N. De Tray
Sector Manager:            Maria Teresa Serra                                  Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:        Victor Bottini                                      Scott Guggenheim
ICR Primary Author(s):


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:HS

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
When KDP was conceived in 1998, Indonesia was in the midst of an extreme financial and
political crisis. A prolonged drought had pushed the rural poor in many regions deeper into
poverty. Economic growth declined to minus 14 percent in 1998, in marked contract to the eight
percent annual growth rates of earlier years.    While the country had made significant progress
for decades on poverty reduction, those gains were quickly being reversed as millions of rural
poor fell below the poverty threshold and significant numbers of people increased their
vulnerability and clustered around the poverty line. The economic crisis brought to the forefront
the vulnerability of Indonesia's approach to economic development and governance. Thirty-two
years of authoritarian rule had stifled local-level initiative and decision-making. The government in
the past had undermined local capacity and placed heavy restrictions upon local community
organizing. Government programs in general had not been responsive to local needs and the
mismanagement of public projects and funds had led to general disillusionment with the
government's ability to provide essential services.

KDP's Original Objectives. KDP was designed to address this myriad of problems by
improving local governance and increasing the participation of communities in their own
development. The Program's development objectives are: (1) to strengthen kecamatan
(sub-district) and village level government and communities by empowering them to manage
increased funding and become accountable for it; and (2) to contribute to rural development by
providing increased economic opportunities at the village level in the poorest kecamatan.

KDP's goals were consistent with the Bank's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as well as
the government's poverty alleviation strategy. The CAS consisted of four main objectives:
poverty reduction; efficient delivery of basic services; participation in development planning and
implementation; and decentralization. This was consistent with the government's overall poverty
strategy for poverty reduction through financial transfer programs; improvement of the scope and
quality of basic social services; regional development programs; development of better
methodologies for information systems for identifying and targeting poor groups; and support for
local economic initiatives and labor-intensive civil works.

KDP's objectives reflected the critical needs and concerns of the Government and nation at the
time.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project development objectives are to: raise incomes, strengthen kecamatan and village
government and community institutions and to build infrastructure through labor intensive
methods.

3.3 Original Components:
Project Component 1: Block Grants to Kecamatan                            * USD 221 million

This component supports block grants of 350 million to one billion rupiah (USD 44,000 to USD
125,000) annually over three years to kecamatan. After a three to four-month socialization and
planning process, villages generate proposals that are approved at inter-village fora composed of


                                                  - 2 -

village representatives. The funds are used for a variety of development activities including rural
infrastructure, (i.e., roads, water supply, sanitation, bridges, schools and health facilities, etc.) and
social and economic loan activities.

Project Component 2: Technical Assistance for Implementation                USD 32 million

This component supports technical assistance for implementation of the Program. The
Government hires consultants at the national, provincial, district and kecamatan levels to assist the
government and villagers in implementing the project cycle.

Project Component 3: Monitoring                                              USD 2 million

This component includes monitoring activities of NGOs and independent journalists as well as
impact monitoring and surveys, technical studies, case studies and financial oversight.

Project Component 4: Policy studies                                           USD 2 million

This component was originally intended to focus upon district level procurement guidelines,
however it was eventually eliminated because of the passage of the decentralization laws in 1999
which established its own local procurement regulations.

*Component budget amounts are based upon final actual budget amounts. See Annex 2

The design of all components was clearly related to the aforementioned objectives. By providing
funding and technical assistance directly to communities to plan and implement their projects,
KDP strengthens and empowers local communities and increases rural development in the poorest
villages. Project implementers and independent actors such as NGOs and the media monitor the
project cycle.

The components and the design of the Program took into account best practices and relevant
lessons learned in earlier studies and projects. KDP's immediate predecessors, the Village
Infrastructure Projects (VIP)1 and 2, demonstrated that communities can receive funds directly
and manage them effectively for their self-identified infrastructure projects. VIP and other Bank
experience with community infrastructure projects all pointed to the lower costs, higher quality,
and greater ownership that comes from community participation. The Local Level Institutions
study showed that communities have enormous capacity to manage their own projects. The
effective use of local organizations however requires giving them resources and responsibilities.

3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
INVESTMENTS;            $201,800,000.00;    S
TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE;                        $69,000,000.00;    S
MONITORING REVIEWS, ETC;                $2,000,000.00;     HS
POLICY;      $2,000,000.00;      S




                                                   - 3 -

Project cost recording is slightly skewed against the project because significant funds were added
to KDP's grant category. GOI added $35,000,000.00 to the Kecamatan Grant Component
(Comp. 1) during the project's second year. This was done outside of the project's legal structure
but with the concurrence of the Bank. A supplemental Credit of $49.0 million was also added to
the project, again primarily in Category 1. Thus, the project's technical assistance also had to
cover nearly $90 million in extra grant funds.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated as highly satisfactory. A QAG assessment completed in 1999 rated
Quality at Entry as highly satisfactory due to the consistency of objectives with the CAS,
government priorities and the Bank's safeguard policies. As described in the sections above,
KDP's objectives were very much complementary to the CAS' emphasis on poverty reduction;
efficient delivery of basic services; participation in development planning and implementation; and
decentralization. Assumptions made regarding project risks and external factors were reasonable
and justified given the experience of past government programs and the fluid political and
economic situation of the country at that time.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under KDP was satisfactory. These achievements are all
the more impressive given the tumultuous political and economic backdrop throughout the project
period: a prolonged drought; severe financial crisis; one political coup followed by the first free
general elections held in 44 years; four presidents in four years; armed insurgencies; ethnic riots
and repeated terrorist attacks around the archipelago; and the Bali bombing of October 2002.

KDP continued relatively unscathed from these political events. From 1998 to 2002, KDP funded
over 50,000 physical infrastructure, economic and social activities across the country worth USD
189 million. Field studies and household surveys cite high satisfaction with KDP's results which
opened economic opportunities at the village and kecamatan level and improved access to
markets, town centers, education and health facilities and clean water supply. Economic loans
were used to expand business opportunities, especially among women.

KDP's second objective, the strengthening of kecamatan and village level government and
communities, is a long-term process. KDP was envisaged as the first phase of a longer-term local
governance and investment program. Changes in attitudes, procedures and practices by necessity
take time in order to reverse years of authoritarian attitudes, top-down development planning, and
lack of accountability and transparency. KDP1 took a large step in the right direction by
providing technical assistance and giving communities direct responsibility for planning and
implementing their identified development projects. Along with specific training for government
officials, consultants and communities, KDP followed a "learning by doing" process.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1.      Improved planning process and plans ­ Highly satisfactory




                                                  - 4 -

By the end of 2002, KDP had worked in some 18,000-20,000 villages, almost one out of every
four villages in the country, with a total beneficiary population of some 35 million people. Over
126,000 village-wide public meetings were held on KDP with an average of 36 percent women
attending and 53 percent representing the poorer members of the communities. The planning
process was implemented in all these villages and 986 financial management units (UPKs) at the
kecamatan level were formed and trained.


2.      Public infrastructures ­ Highly satisfactory

For detailed description of outputs, see listing in Annex 1.

Seventy-six percent of KDP grant funds (Rps 1.2 trillion or USD 133 million) went towards
productive infrastructure activities, benefiting an estimated 35 million beneficiaries in the
participating villages. Roads were by far the most popular, followed by irrigation and drainage
schemes, bridges, clean water supply, sanitation and other infrastructure such as markets, boat
docks, etc. The infrastructure works generated 25 million workdays for over 2.8 million villagers.
External technical evaluations found that the general quality of KDP infrastructure was good to
very good, especially for bridges and market structures. In terms of cost effectiveness, village
infrastructure built through KDP methods cost significantly less ­ on average about one-third less
­ than equivalent works built though government agencies such as the Ministry of Public Works.
This was due to savings in the costs of labor, materials, equipment (using manual labor instead of
heavy equipment) and technical assistance.

3.      Economic investments ­ Unsatisfactory

Twenty-three percent of KDP grant funds (Rps 357 billion or USD 40 million) went towards
economic loan activities such as loan and savings groups (simpan pinjam), animal husbandry,
trading, agriculture and home cottage industries. Over 18,000 groups representing some 280,000
persons received economic loans. Economic activities were particularly popular for women's
groups. Seventy-four percent of women's proposals were for economic loans, especially loan and
savings groups, followed by trading and animal husbandry. Field reports show that borrowers
used KDP funds to start new businesses or more often, to augment the capital for their existing
businesses.

The bad news is that loan repayment was a major challenge for the program. Repayment rates for
loans from the first two project years were averaging only 45 percent nationwide with wide
provincial variation. The eastern provinces of Nusa Tenggara Timor and Papua had the lowest
repayment rates averaging 10 to 20 percent while Yogyakarta and Central Java, with a long
tradition of village credit activities were averaging approximately 85 to 90 percent repayment
rates. The targeting of the loans was also a problem. External evaluation reports and household
surveys indicate that a large portion of loans was allocated to better-off villagers because
communities were reluctant to lend to the poor for fear of poor repayment, (although "better off"
in this context still meant an average daily per capita income of only $1.25-$2.00). KDP



                                                  - 5 -

commissioned an independent external evaluation of KDP's credit portfolio in September 2001,
resulting in a complete redesign of the micro-credit portfolio for KDP Phases Two and Three.

4.      Studies - Satisfactory

The original intention of this output component was to focus on studies to improve district
procurement guidelines. However, as explained earlier, new decentralization laws of 1999
preempted the implementation of this study.

KDP commissioned numerous studies to inform the design and management of the Program.
These studies included:

  § EightInternalMonitoringcasestudiesonwomen'sparticipation,roleofvillagefacilitators,
      improvements in local governance, etc.
  § KDPactivitiesinconflictareas
  § 4,600householdimpactsurveyoncommunityparticipationandorganization
  § Twotechnicalstudiesandex-postevaluationsoninfrastructureactivities
  § Economicloanstudy
  § Information,EducationandCommunicationstrategystudies
  § FightingcorruptioninKDP
  § LegalassistanceprogramforKDPcommunities
  § NGOSpecialMonitoringWorkofKDPImplementationinFiveProvincesinJava
  § TheExperienceofMassMediainMonitoringKDP

Almost all the findings from these studies and research led to significant improvements in KDP
design and procedures.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic Rate of Return

A November 2001 ex-post evaluation of select KDP infrastructure outputs found that the
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the main KDP infrastructure types ranged from 14 to
83 percent with a weighted average of 60 percent. (Much more conservative assumptions for
returns to road would still yielda total IRR of 38%). Generally, the nature of small-scale rural
infrastructure projects is such that the marginal productivity of capital can be very high and only
relatively small injections of capital are needed to release large incremental benefits.

                 Table 1: Economic Internal Rate of Return for KDP Infrastructure

         Projects              EIRR
Water supply                   83.3%
Bridges                        58.7%
Roads                          32.8%
Irrigation/Drainage            14.8%
Weighted Average               60.1%



                                                  - 6 -

Virtually all the benefits have been captured by villagers who report the following direct benefits:

  § Improvedaccesstoneighboringvillages,localmarkets,schoolsandotherpublicfacilities
  § Decreaseintravelandtransportcostsespeciallyforagriculturalcommodities
  § Timesavingsintravelparticularlywithroadsandnewbridgeconstruction
  § Increaseinagriculturalproductionduetoirrigationprojects
  § Openingupofbusinessesandtransportservicesduetonewroads,bridgesandpiers
  § Forwaterandsanitationprojects,improvedwaterquality,easeofaccesstocleanwater
      supply, decreased costs of buying water and improved health conditions. Time savings due
      to new water supply systems were particularly significant, representing potentially an
      estimated 50 million person days saved.

An independent impact survey conducted with 4,600 households in KDP areas confirmed that
community leaders and beneficiaries were satisfied with KDP's outputs and cited the positive
impact of KDP projects on household income, access to markets, school participation (for females
as well as males) and access to health facilities. These responses compared favorably to control
groups in non-KDP project areas.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rate of return was calculated at 38.9%. Factoring in all technical assistance and facilitation costs,
the overall weighted IRR comes to 20.3%, which is well above the break-even point on the loan.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
One of the development objectives of KDP was to strengthen kecamatan and village level
government and communities (see earlier discussion under Achievement of Objectives) By
building the capacities of government institutions and community organizations to plan, manage
and implement development activities, they will be able to continue to carry on development
activities effectively in the future.

Through KDP, the national level government developed its capacity to manage a large-scale
national program covering almost one out of every four villages in Indonesia, and involving the
recruitment and training of some 34,600 consultants and village facilitators. The implementing
agency, PMD, and the Ministry of Finance increased its contracting and financial management
capabilities, managing over 61 contracts and disbursing approximately USD 253 million of
development funds.

The local governments at the provincial, district, kecamatan and village levels also gained skills in
project monitoring, supervision, management, and handling complaints. With the increasingly
prominent roles played by the districts, KDP provided orientation and training to district officials
and local parliaments (DPRD II) so that they could expand their monitoring roles.

Full partnerships with NGOs and the media were institutionalized through contracts with over 40
NGOs and 31 journalists based in the provinces who were involved in independent monitoring of
KDP. KDP provided training to these groups and sponsored national workshops to exchange
ideas and experiences. Feedback from these civil society groups emphasized their improved



                                                   - 7 -

monitoring skills in overseeing government development projects and fulfilling new roles as
"independent or citizen watchdogs". Lastly, the skills of communities have been built in project
planning, implementation, management and monitoring of infrastructure and economic activities.
Over a four-year project period, communities themselves planned and implemented some 50,000
infrastructure, economic and social activities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
External factors affecting KDP's implementation included:

1.      Internal conflicts/security- Internal conflicts affected project implementation in at least
six of KDP's 22 provinces. In Aceh and Papua, separatist conflicts meant heightened security
measures for staff, and in Aceh province, fighting between separatists and government forces
resulted in the suspension of activities in several districts.

In other parts of the country such as Central Kalimantan, Poso in Central Sulawesi, Maluku and
North Maluku, ethnic and religious conflict broke out and KDP was forced to remove its
consultants and suspend activities for extended periods of time until the security situation
improved. The violent conflicts took the lives of one KDP kecamatan facilitator in Maluku and
one village facilitator in Aceh.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
2.      Government commitment ­ The Government demonstrated its commitment to KDP in a
number of ways. First, the Government showed surprising willingness to experiment and adopt
several unique and progressive design features, such as media and NGO independent monitoring,
information transparency mechanisms, supplementary funding window for widows and orphans,
and a legal assistance component. In the context of Indonesia's decades of authoritarian rule and
corruptive practices, the Government's willingness to allow a greater role for civil society and to
embed more open, transparent procedures into the project, was in fact revolutionary.

Secondly, current GOI policy promotes the KDP design as a foundation of its national poverty
reduction strategy, and its "flagship" poverty project. If KDP was proven successful, the
Government envisioned adopting the KDP development model and allocating its own fiscal
resources to continue the program. KDP should eventually shift into the regular government
system of budget transfers, relying on decreasing injections of external aid. This aim has already
been partially fulfilled and there is strong evidence of the Government's commitment to sustaining
KDP:

  § TheGovernmenthasalwaysshowedstrongsupportforexpandingKDPacrossIndonesia.
      KDP started its first year with 150 more subdistricts than originally planned during project
      appraisal, and scaled up KDP coverage an average of 40 percent each year. By the end of
      the Program, KDP exceeded the geographical target for kecamatan coverage by 35 percent.

  § In2001,theGovernmentcomplementedKDPfundingshortfallswithaUSD48million
      Supplementary Credit at a time of drastically reduced foreign borrowing.



                                                     - 8 -

  § In2001,thegovernmentalsoinitiatedaUSD25millionprogramfollowingKDP
       procedures and mechanisms in order to channel fuel subsidy transfers to poor villages off
       Java.

  § ForKDPPhaseTwo(2002-2006),70districtsor35percentofthetotalparticipating
       districts, will be contributing funds out of their own internal budgets for the capital grants to
       the program while KDP provides the technical assistance. Almost 25 percent of the
       Program's funds will come from these district contributions.

  § Lastly,inresponsetotheOct2002bombinginBaliandtheDecember2002Acehpeace
       accords, the government has requested the World Bank to expand KDP in these provinces.
       KDP will expand to an additional 47 kecamatan in Bali and eventually an additional 70
       kecamatan in Aceh because of recent political events.

The Government has also demonstrated its strong commitment to KDP by committing
considerable staff resources to the Program. Management of KDP was the responsibility of the
Ministry of Home Affairs, Community Development Agency (PMD). PMD formed a national
secretariat with close to 25 staff. The Government formed coordination teams, representing
various ministries at the national, provincial and district levels, headed by the National
Development Planning Agency (Bappenas) and its provincial and district offices. At the
kecamatan level, the PMD section head served as KDP's local project manager. Project
supervision missions have involved consistently a high level of participation by the concerned
government agencies.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
3.      Management effectiveness - While the Government demonstrated strong commitment to
KDP, PMD's management capabilities were fairly weak throughout the project. Three problems
were especially prominent. First, there was disagreement over the roles and responsibilities of
PMD and the consultants. Despite several written clarifications, there was continuous tension
related to the duplication of responsibilities and ambiguity regarding task management. Secondly,
the PMD national secretariat handled with great difficulty some 61 different contracts, not
including numerous extensions and amendments. Contract management and procurement was
slow and inefficient at all stages, from contract bidding, to selection, to finalization of contracts
and amendments. Delays in the issuance of contracts for consultant companies, NGOs and other
service providers adversely affected the project schedule and delayed implementation for months
at a time. Lastly, PMD was slow to act in solving problems or implementing agreed upon
decisions. For example, in cases of corruption such as in Papua or Lampung provinces, PMD was
slow to address the problems or apply sanctions even when there was ample evidence of
corruption or procedural violations.

4.      Strong Level of Civil Society Participation ­ One shining light through KDP was the
strong commitment and participation of Indonesian civil society groups in monitoring the
Program. Under the Suharto regime, NGO activities and the media were extremely restricted in
their activities. KDP contracted 40 Indonesian NGOs to monitor independently project activities
and provide monthly oral and written reports to the provincial coordination teams including


                                                     - 9 -

government and consultants. The Program also contracted thirty-one journalists from radio and
print media through a leading Indonesian NGO, LP3ES and the Association of Independent
Journalists to write uncensored news reports regarding KDP. Feedback from both the NGOs and
journalists was very positive about their monitoring activities. Lastly, by Year Three of KDP, the
Program had developed a pilot legal aid program called Justice for the Poor. The Program funded
legal aid NGOs and paralegal groups to provide legal advocacy services and education in select
KDP areas. In summary, the support from civil society, which is only at a nascent stage of
development since Suharto's fall in 1998, has played a critical and active role in KDP.

5.      Beneficiary commitment ­ KDP is a popular program especially among local
government officials and beneficiary communities. For three decades under Suharto's New Order
regime, ordinary villagers were "disempowered" and uninvolved in the political and democratic
process. KDP has changed that paradigm by providing citizens with a mechanism to put
democratic village-level decision-making into practice. The communities are the ones who
actually implement KDP, and without their considerable time and commitment, the program
would fail. Village and kecamatan meetings to socialize and plan KDP activities show strong
attendance and participation of villagers with women generally comprising 26 to 45 percent of all
participants. Community contributions are also a tangible indicator of interest and participation in
project activities. Community contributions, both in-kind and cash, average about 17 percent of
total projects costs; variance around this figure is very high and in some areas, community
contributions match or exceed the total amounts received from KDP.

6.      Corruption ­ Given the high risk and corruption-prone environment in which KDP
operates, the Program purposely built several anti-corruption measures into its design. These
mechanisms were strengthened each year. First, KDP reduced design complexity. KDP
simplified financial systems and project procedures to allow full understanding and community
control over decision-making and financial management. There were no hidden transaction costs
or complicated budgets. Secondly, transparency was one of the key principles of KDP and
formed the core of KDP's anti-corruption strategy. Program and financial information was shared
and publicly displayed in villages. A strong internal and external monitoring system was
established including government and consultant monitoring, civil society monitoring, joint World
Bank and PMD supervision missions, and audits of 30-35 percent of kecamatan each project year.
Lastly, complaints were responded to and reports of misused funds were investigated and
followed up.

Has this strategy worked? There is evidence of measured success. First audit findings by BPKP,
the government audit agency, KDP's own internal audit unit and the World Bank reveal only Rps
8.7 billion (USD 967,000) or 0.5% of grant funds being diverted. Misappropriation of funds in
individual cases was generally for small amounts on average USD 1,000 to 2,000. Common
perceptions by villagers themselves are that much less goes missing in KDP projects than in other
development projects. And in cases, where funds have been misused, action is taken.
Also, an independent evaluation of infrastructure projects in 2001 found that KDP infrastructure
projects are 23 percent less expensive than comparable government projects primarily because of
lower transaction costs, costs of labor and technical assistance, pricing of goods, materials and
equipment.



                                                 - 10 -

Despite this progress however, corruption in KDP does exist and it is difficult to eliminate. A
household survey reported numerous complaints about the lack of transparency in some
infrastructure and more particularly, economic loan activities. Out of the 724 cases of misused
funds reported up to July 2002, only 37 percent of those cases have been resolved; others are still
in process.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original loan amount for KDP was USD 225 million. In 2001, the World Bank added a
supplementary credit of USD 48 million to ensure adequate funds for the expansion of KDP,
bringing the total project funds to USD 273 million. As of Jan 2003, the project had spent 253
million or 93 percent of the loan funds.



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Project's sustainability is rated as likely for several reasons.

1.       Strengthened capacities of government agencies and communities - By building the
capacities of government institutions and communities to plan, manage and implement
development activities, they will be able to continue to carry out these activities effectively in the
future. The longer term impact of KDP will be in developing within communities the capabilities
for planning, procurement, financial management and project implementation. (see earlier section
on Institutional Development Impact.)

2.       KDP as a model for community-based development in Indonesia - KDP has
established a participatory, community-based model for development in Indonesia. The
Government has demonstrated its commitment to KDP by adopting the mechanism across a broad
range of donor and nationally funded initiatives (see section above on Government commitment).

3.       Decentralization policy framework - The government's recent decentralization program,
outlined in the Regional Governance Laws 22 and 25 of 1999, provides a supportive policy
environment for KDP to operate. Through the new laws, local governments, especially at the
district and village levels gain greater autonomy, power and a share of resources. The trend in
Indonesia is to decentralize planning and finances, and move services closer to the people.
Through the new revenue-sharing arrangements, districts will be more capable of providing their
own resources to KDP. All this bodes well for KDP's principles of decentralization and
community participation.

4.       Sustainability of infrastructure subprojects - In terms of sustainability and maintenance
of the infrastructure projects, KDP required villagers to have Operations and Maintenance
(O&M) plans and committees in place once the infrastructure projects were completed. Field
reports and an August 2001 technical study revealed that 86 percent of Year One infrastructure
was being maintained (one and a half years after construction), of which 94 percent were done by



                                                  - 11 -

village Operations and Maintenance teams or independently by community members on a periodic
or regular basis. KDP1 only recently finished so ex-post evaluations will be needed in the future.
The experience of the Village Infrastructure Project, KDP's predecessor, reveals that five years
after construction, two-thirds of the villages on Java had maintained their infrastructure, but less
than one third on Sumatra. Thus, follow-up will be needed to assess the maintenance status of
KDP projects in the future. Under KDP2, one of the responsibilities of the KDP engineers will be
to check on maintenance of previous KDP infrastructure projects. It remains a question whether
or not communities will continue to maintain their projects using their own internal resources and
whether or not KDP's technical resources will be overstretched by supervising these old
kecamatan.

5.      However, there are also certain undesirable changes likely to happen to the core design if
the transition to on-budget sustainability happens too quickly. The biggest of these is that line
agency interests remain extremely strong within local and national government. In local
government adaptations of KDP, village options for procuring their own technical services and
equipment from the open market are nearly always replaced by requirements for them to use
government technical services. KDP's transparency rules also remain far from standard procedure
within local government.

6.      The preferred strategy for sustainability, discussed below, is for the Bank and Bappenas to
retain a longer term involvement in the overall KDP program by financing the facilitators, while
shifting the block grant contributions onto the local government budget. This will allow central
government withdrawal to proceed in tandem with the development of more open and
participatory local government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The second phase of KDP has already begun. KDP2's Project Appraisal Document was approved
in May 2001 with the loan agreement for USD 320 million signed in August 2001. KDP2 became
effective in January 2002.

The Government and the Bank agreed upon several design changes based upon lessons learned
from the first phase (see Lessons Learned section). For 50 of the high performing kecamatan
finishing their three-year cycle of funding, KDP2 will continue to provide technical and financial
assistance to them. Under KDP2, consultants will also be checking upon KDP1 infrastructure
projects to ensure that they are maintained after funding for the village has ceased. KDP Phase 3,
which is currently under concept review, will provide continuing technical assistance to
"graduate" kecamatan of KDP1 and 2.

KDP2 continues many of the same monitoring and evaluation systems as in the first phase, namely
regular consultant and government supervision and monthly reporting, civil society monitoring,
case study development, financial audits and supervision missions. (See indicators listed in Annex
1) However, due to decentralization of staff, more monitoring is expected to occur from district
level staff and the local parliaments.

The World Bank will continue to monitor closely the project through KDP2. A future impact
evaluation by OED will be useful during the mid-term review of KDP2 or at the end of KDP2.


                                                  - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification and Preparation ­ In designing and preparing KDP, the World Bank built upon
the experience of a number of projects and studies including: World Bank social funds; Village
Infrastructure Projects 1 and 2; WSSLIC 2; NGO experience in community organizing in
Indonesia; FAO Integrated Pest Management Project, and the Local Level Institutions Study. All
combined, these projects and studies provided key lessons and rich information regarding
community organizing, social capital, training, infrastructure development, and financial
management that were eventually built into the design and mechanisms of KDP.

The Bank also had the foresight to allocate significant funds for monitoring, evaluation and
studies. The Bank advocated for a significant civil society role in monitoring and evaluating the
program. The Bank also suggested the addition of several other innovative program components
to KDP in later years, including a legal aid and advocacy program, widows and orphans
component, and studies on conflict prevention in KDP areas.

7.2 Supervision:
Throughout the Program, the Bank was deeply involved in overseeing financial management and
procurement. Perhaps more so than in other programs, Bank vigilance and tight supervision were
needed in a working environment riddled with weak procedures and leakage. The Bank
organized supervision missions that tapped the expertise of other Bank staff as well as Indonesian
NGOs and other donors in the country such as UNDP, AusAid, and the Dutch government.

One weakness in Bank performance was the completion of Project Status Reports. These did not
serve as a useful instrument for project management either in the field office or Headquarters.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank benefited from an experienced,
multi-disciplinary team of Indonesian and expatriate professionals with expertise in community
development, engineering, training, institutional development, procurement, and financial
management. The team also had a deep understanding of the Indonesian context and
development environment; expatriate team members had between four to 22 years of working
experience in Indonesia. The Task Manager was based in Jakarta throughout the project period in
order to facilitate discussions with the government and provide close guidance and supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. Originally, the
Project was lodged with the national planning agency, BAPPENAS, which provided a strong
central management unit experienced with the Village Infrastructure Projects. All three core
agencies (Home Affairs, Bappenas, and Finance) did an outstanding job at introducing and
implementing new, more efficient financial management procedures.

Due to changes in roles and responsibilities of government agencies, KDP moved to the Ministry



                                               - 13 -

of Home Affairs, Community Development Agency (PMD). PMD formed a central management
secretariat which provided policy and operational guidance to KDP. From the outset, the
Government also formed an inter-ministerial coordination committee that included the Ministries
of Public Works, Home Affairs, Finance, Education, Health and Agriculture.

As mentioned earlier, the Government also deserves significant credit for its willingness to
experiment with several unique design features. For example, the Government agreed in the loan
agreement to independent monitoring and reporting by NGOs and the Association of Independent
Journalists (AJI), at a time when AJI was officially banned under the Suharto regime. Later in the
Program, the Government also agreed to add special funding windows and programs for widows
and orphans as well as legal advocacy.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory albeit with numerous
weaknesses and inefficiencies as mentioned in other sections. Throughout the Project,
BAPPENAS faced great difficulties with poverty targeting and the selection of the poorest
kecamatan to participate in each KDP project cycle. This led to mistargeting in a few cases.
Also, four personnel changes in Directorships and Project Managers in PMD during the course of
the project period resulted in implementation delays and often changes in direction. As mentioned
earlier, there were recurrent problems with contracting, invoicing, and problem resolution. The
Bank played a strong role in ensuring that the program was kept on course and problems and
issues were addressed in a reasonable time frame but there were significant delays nevertheless.

In general, there were very few problems with the Ministry of Finance and funds transfer to
villages. The government audit agency, BPKP, conducted their annual audits with no significant
issues or deviations from the agreed upon Terms of Reference.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agencies' performance ranged from satisfactory to highly satisfactory. There were
26 private companies and NGOs providing national and field consultants, 28 provincial
monitoring NGOs, one journalist organization (Association of Independent Journalists), two
training companies, one communications company (Johns Hopkins University); one institute
handling the impact evaluation (University of Indonesia, Demographic Institute) and two printing
companies. Several of the NGOs as well as the communications company performed very
satisfactorily.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance was satisfactory to highly satisfactory. Any evaluation of the
Government's performance must be done within the context of the complexity and enormity of
the task before it. KDP was a USD300 million program, spread across 18,000 villages
nationwide, with a kecamatan scale-up of 40 percent annually, and over 34,600 consultants and
facilitators requiring training and supervision. Given the complexity and scale of the Program,
KDP was an enormous management task for any organization. External political and economic
factors also deserve mention. During the project period, Indonesia experienced severe economic,
political and financial crises. Despite these daunting challenges, all performance output targets for
the Program, except the micro credit, were exceeded. Managerial weaknesses and



                                                 - 14 -

implementation delays aside, the Program consistently moved forward and exceeded its major
targets.

8. Lessons Learned

KDP presented many useful lessons for community-driven development projects both in Indonesia
and in other countries. (For a more complete description of lessons learned, see KDP1 Final
Report and KDP2 Project Appraisal Document) Some of the more important lessons learned are
listed below:

Human resource development and capacity building are good investments and critical to
program success. Training was especially important since KDP was introducing principles and
procedures (i.e., participation, transparency, accountability, etc.) that represented a radical
departure from the practices built up under years of authoritarian rule and centralized, top-down
planning. While significant progress was made, KDP fell short in addressing effectively a number
of training competences. Consultants and facilitators needed additional training in community
facilitation, encouraging actively the inclusion of women and marginal groups, field supervision,
technical and civil engineering skills, project management, and reporting. Technical assistance
and supervision for village infrastructure projects in particular need to be strengthened, and for
KDP2, the technical skills of kecamatan and district consultants must be upgraded. Communities
also required more quality training in the areas of planning, financial management, and
construction skills. Government officials lacked appropriate training in the principles and
procedures of KDP and supervision. KDP Phase 2 has placed greater emphasis and increased
funds for training and human resource development. Training must be addressed through a
sustained strategy for developing capacities continuously and transferring skills gradually over a
period of time, rather than one-time generic training workshops.

Improved performance also is dependent upon an enabling environment that allows for job
security, career development options, and incentive or reward programs for high performing
consultants and facilitators.

Improved community participation and poverty targeting ­ KDP was fairly successful at
mobilizing communities for meetings and other project activities. However, the quality of that
participation can be improved. Years of authoritarian rule have made communities complacent
and accepting of external decision-making and unaccountable government practices. A
transformation of attitudes and behavior will by necessity take time. Community participation can
improve through better facilitation, communications and outreach. Also, poverty targeting within
village was weak which led to the exclusion of some of the more marginal and poorer segments of
the population. KDP2 has adopted more participatory rural appraisal techniques involving wealth
ranking and social mapping which will be used during the initial socialization period to increase
inclusion and transparency.

Increased women's participation ­ Gender issues in Indonesia are neither simple nor easy to
address. KDP's bold affirmative action measures were a first step, (see later section on Gender)
but they were not enough to empower women. Women formed a significant block of participants
at the village and inter-village meetings, 32 to 37 percent of participants, but they were still the



                                                 - 15 -

minority, and a generally silent one at that. Women's representation at meetings and in the
consultant ranks did not translate into a significant lobbying group for women's empowerment or
investments that benefit them. In most cases, men continued to "call the shots". In the future,
KDP must move beyond the first step of mandatory representation and include more systematic
gender awareness and women's leadership training programs to raise the voices of women.

Independent civil society monitoring worked well and served a dual purpose of providing
quality independent monitoring of KDP as well as improving the capacities of NGOs and media as
vigilant "watchdogs" of public funds. The future direction should be to continue support for
these activities but to deepen the groups' abilities to monitor and report effectively, and increase
their coordination with local government officials and consultants.

Monitoring, evaluations and studies are worthwhile investments when Program management
is open and willing to use the results to improve design and procedures. KDP set aside
approximately USD 2 million for monitoring, special studies and evaluations (not including
regular consultant salaries). Almost all findings were incorporated and used effectively to
improve the program and its management.

Redesign the economic loan portfolio ­ The micro-credit component of KDP was extremely
difficult to manage and control and it will be redesigned for improved financial management. This
redesign includes: the development of new procedures, more financial and loan management
training for the kecamatan-level financial unit (UPK) and villagers; improved reporting formats,
and better targeting of loan beneficiaries.

Mechanisms to reduce corruption do exist and they can be effective ­ KDP established the
systems to track complaints and misuse of funds. These systems and mechanisms can be
improved through more in-depth training for project stakeholders on dispute resolution, reporting
and monitoring. The community is usually in the best position to resolve disputes using their
customary local practices. However, in cases where issues cannot be solved, KDP government
officials and consultants must help to resolve these cases expeditiously. Preventing corruption
requires constant vigilance by all stakeholders. Sanctions need to be enforced and persistent
follow-up of cases should be supported.

Involvement of local government officials - Getting government officials from all levels into the
field is the key to changing hearts and minds. Policy dialogue is useful and sector work also
provides guidelines on better ways to do things, but making these projects not only sustainable
but also interesting to local governments requires a large number of "events" and opportunities to
visit sites themselves. Funds for this should be channeled through private contracts. Eventually,
KDP will want to build upon this foundation of support and growing interest in KDP, and widen
its constituency within government especially at the local level.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
One cooperative effort of the World Bank and the Government of Indonesia, in this case the
Directorate General of Community and Village Capacity Enhancement ("PMD") of the



                                                 - 16 -

Department of Home Affairs is the Kecamatan Development Project (KDP). PMD, as the agency
tasked with guiding and supervising the implementation of KDP, judges that the implementation
of the first phase of KDP has contributed to reducing poverty and enhancing the capacity of
villagers. These results were realized based on the excellent cooperation between the World Bank
and PMD.

KDP is different from other poverty alleviation programs of the government. The special
character of KDP is dual: First, KDP provides a block grant and facilitation to assist villagers to
decide for themselves, in an open manner, what economic infrastructure or facilities to build or
whether to borrow funds as capital for small business or trade. Secondly, KDP tries to recreate
space for villagers to express their aspirations; it tries to actually "emancipate" them, allowing
them to manage their own local resources in a self ­reliant manner.

One aspect of empowerment is a guarantee of sustainability of the emancipatory development
process. Local governments can directly begin the process of capacity enhancement by creating
and promoting a participatory development planning process. Then they can provide funds and
TA (local facilitators) to assist with village development, especially pro-poor development efforts.
KDP provides valuable experience and lessons to local governments in their efforts to reduce
poverty on their own, with their own resources.

In other words, KDP has a direct impact on strengthening local autonomy. A number of elements
of the impact of KDP on local autonomy are:

1.      KDP provides a learning ground for local governments to promote the development of
villagers' aspirations and allowing villagers to decide on their own development needs.
2.      KDP provides local governments a learning ground for managing village development on
their own, with passion, democratically, in a participatory manner, and transparently.
3.      KDP provides a learning ground for local governments to take responsibility for poverty
alleviation and pro-poor investments, encouraging them to contribute funds for KDP activities
locally, and thereby giving them hands-on experience in poverty alleviation efforts.

Eventhough KDP has the potential to push and to strengthen regional autonomy, in fact the role
of local governments in supervising KDP is not yet optimal. KDP still depends heavily on its
consultants. This is a serious issue in view of the sustainability of the project as a model for
participatory and transparent poverty alleviation. Therefore steps to improve KDP's design,
including KDP 2 and KDP 3, are needed to increase the role of local governments in concrete
ways. The ultimate hope is that local governments will be willing to adopt the KDP principles and
design voluntarily as local development policy. Besides the results of KDP that both the World
Bank and the Government of Indonesia recognize as being highly satisfactory, it is also
recognized that the implementation of KDP 1 was not free of a number of weaknesses and even
problems which significantly negatively impacted on implementation of the project in the field.
The Secretariat in PMD acknowledges that the division of responsibilities and tasks between the
Secretariat and the project's National Management Consultant team was not clear and that there
was too much overlap and duplication. Also it is recognized that tendering and contracting was
much too slow and that this negatively affected field activities. At the beginning of the



                                                  - 17 -

implementation of KDP 2, based on lessons learned from KDP 1, improvements have been made
in project management. First of all, it has been made clear that the National Management
Consultant team has full responsibility for management of project implementation, while the
Secretariat is more responsible for project administration and basic project policies as they relate
to overall government policy. In order to increase administrative effectiveness, the project
manager has tried to improve communications with the team task manager of the Bank with
respect to the issuance of NOLs, for example, and in general on coming to agreement on actions
needed. The project manager with the agreement of the team task manager have agreed on
adding qualified personnel to the Secretariat to deal with procurement and general project
administration. These steps it is hoped will improve the quality of KDP 2 and KDP 3
implementation.
                                                                                      (unofficially
translated from Indonesian: original on file)

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

ASSESSING PERFORMANCE IN SELECTED THEMATIC AREAS

Poverty Alleviation and other Social Objectives

Gender Concerns

KDP undertook a number of initiatives to improve gender equity and increase women's
participation in the project:

  § Eachparticipatingvillageelectsonemaleandonefemalevillagefacilitator
  § InYearThree,twoassistantkecamatanfacilitators­onemaleandonefemale­wereadded
      to every kecamatan to assist the main facilitator
  § Theinter-villagemeetingstodiscussprojectsmustincluderespectedvillageleadersand
      representatives, at least one man and two women from each participating village;
  § Outofthetwovillageproposalssubmittedbyavillagetotheinter-villageform,atleastone
      proposal must be from women's groups.
  § Learningfromtheexperienceofthefirsttwoyears,inyearthree,KDPincludedspecial
      separate meetings for women to discuss, prepare and decide upon women's proposals.
      These separate meetings allowed women to express their interests and project preferences
      more openly.
  § GendertrainingwasincludedinYearTwoforallconsultants
  § KDPmonitorsandcollectedgender-disaggregateddatathroughallphasesofproject
      implementation.
  § InFebruary2002,KDPstartedapilotprojectforvulnerablewidowsandorphansinthefour
      provinces of Aceh, NTT, Southeast Sulawesi and West Java.




                                               - 18 -

Results of these affirmative action measures have in general been positive. Because of the
requirement for equal numbers of male and female village facilitators, KDP hired and trained over
16,465 village women who now form a formidable work force for future work in community
development. Many of them have already applied to be consultants for KDP in the next phase of
the project.

In terms of women's participation in KDP's project cycle, women generally comprised 26 to 45
percent of all participants in KDP village and hamlet meetings. This is an impressive statistic
considering that traditionally in Indonesia, women have been confined to more domestic roles
while men are more active in the public domain. It has been more difficult however for women to
participate actively in the discussions due to cultural norms, the timing of meetings, or their
already heavy workload at home.

Women have also benefited tremendously from KDP's infrastructure and loan investments. On
average, women formed 53 percent of the loan beneficiaries. They also benefit from improved
access to markets, schools, health facilities and other services such as clean water supply and
sanitation.

The next phase of KDP will make several improvements to increase gender equity. More
concerted efforts were made to recruit female consultants who currently only comprise 22 percent
of the KDP consultant ranks. A special program to train 180 female engineers as apprentices is
scheduled to begin in 2003. KDP2 also includes more gender training, women's leadership
training, and more effective and participatory gender and poverty mapping and needs
identification exercises during the proposal preparation phase.

Environmental Objectives

KDP1 ensured that environmental harm was minimized first through a negative list banning
subprojects which used environmentally hazardous goods such as chemicals. Secondly, KDP's
standard operating procedures and standardized designs for infrastructure screened for negative
environmental impact including community roads into protected areas. Prior to subproject
approval, KDP district engineers review and approve community proposals, including for
environmental impacts. Due to the small-scale nature of KDP's subprojects and the
above-mentioned measures, there were few adverse environmental impacts.

Indigenous People

Indigenous people's concerns were met primarily through the design of KDP itself since the
whole purpose of community and demand-driven investment funds like KDP is to allow local
decision-making and control over how development resources are used. However, this is easier
said than done and inevitably there were problems of marginalized indigenous groups becoming
vulnerable to problems of elite domination and corruption. Also in villages and communities
which are not ethnically homogeneous, the majority ethnicities and factions usually dominated the
process and decision-making. KDP took a number of steps to address these problems. First,
KDP's recruitment process favored the hiring of consultants from the area so they are familiar



                                                - 19 -

with local customs and dialects. Secondly, some KDP facilitators took the lead in translating
project material into the local language and using local, indigenous community and religious
groups to spread information.

Papua presented a special and challenging case for KDP where the core problem is the
systematized exclusion of indigenous communities from mainstream activities and institutions,
especially in government, business and higher education. KDP adjusted its program to these
unique circumstances in several ways. First, because of the province's disperse geographical
environment and lack of inter-village fora, decision-making for KDP was pushed down from the
kecamatan level to the villages. Travel and communications allowances were increased for
facilitators and KDP experimented with using a church-based NGO to assist with implementation
of the project in one area. The Program developed a special operations manual specific for
Papua. Lastly, a major obstacle to sustainable development using the KDP model in Papua is the
limited number of qualified Papuans to be project facilitators and technical advisors. To address
this situation, in 2002, KDP, together with Papuan staff and progressive government officials,
developed a special training and education program in collaboration with a local educational
institute to prepare young Papuans to work in KDP. Each KDP participating kecamatan
nominated candidates who will spend up to one year at the educational institute, followed by KDP
work back in their sponsoring communities.




                                                - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                         Exhibit A: Summary of Key KDP Outputs
                                     Phase One: 1998 ­ 2002

Infrastructure Outputs:
 § 16,700roadsbuiltorupgraded,19,000kmsroadsbuiltorupgraded
 § 3,500bridgesbuiltorreconstructed
 § 2,800cleanwatersupplyunitsbuilt
 § 1,300sanitationunitsbuilt
 § 5,200irrigationsystemsbuilt
 § 400publicmarketstructuresbuilt,16rehabilitated
 § 260ruralvillageelectrificationactivities
 § 35millionestimatednumberofbeneficiaries
 § 25millionworkdaysgeneratedfrominfrastructureprojects
 § Over2.8millionvillagersearnedshort-termemploymentthroughinfrastructureworks

Economic Activity Outputs:
 § 18,000economicloanactivities
 § 280,000+loanbeneficiaries(averageof53%women)

Social Activity Outputs:
 § 140villagehealthpostssupported
 § 285newschoolsbuilt,190rehabilitated,380scholarshipsdistributed
 § 85grantstoprovideschoolequipmentandmaterials

Other:
 § Over126,000village-widepublicmeetingsheldonKDP, average36%women,53%poorer
     members of community attending
 § 986UPKs(kecamatanfinancialmanagementunits)formedandtrained
 § Increasedvillagecapacitytoplanandmanageprojects

Management and Training:
 § 23provinces,139districts,1,029kecamatan,18,250villagesparticipatedinKDP,40%average
     annual increase in kecamatan coverage.
 § 34,600consultantsandfacilitatorshiredandtrained(49%women)
 § 1,614complaints/grievancesreported;965(60%)casessolved,649(40%)inprocess
 § PreparationsforKDP-Phase2completedincluding:selectionandapprovalofPhase2sites;150
     kecamatan supported by local government resources (matching grants); performance evaluations of
     all KDP current consultants; recruitment of 3,200 consultants from over 22,000 applications; new
     operation manuals and training plans prepared.

Supervision and monitoring
 § CommunityparticipatorymonitoringoccurringineveryKDPvillage
 § Regularmonitoringbygovernmentofficialsandconsultants
 § Bi-monthlynewsletterdistributedto35,000KDPstakeholders
 § 40NGOscontractedandconductingindependentmonitoringinallKDPprovinces
 § 31AJIjournalistsmonitoringandreporting;over850newspaperarticleswrittenorradiobroadcasts



                                                 - 21 -

       aired on KDP.
  § Semi-annualSupervisionMissions
  § Financialaudits­anaverageof30%ofkecamatanauditedannually
  § 8casestudies, 14specialstudiescompleted
  § 4,600householdimpactsurveyconducted

                                 Exhibit B: Performance Indicators
                               (Schedule 6 of KDP Loan Agreement)
I. Inputs                            Loan          Actual      Difference for Yr 3/ Comments
                                     Agreement     for Yr 3
                                     Yr 3
Number of project kecamatan                  725          986                    +261 kecamatan
                                                                 +304, if East Timor is included,
                                                                    KDP has worked in a total of
                                                                     1,029 kecamatan since 1998
Number of villages with subprojects        6,000       15,000                             +9,000
Grants and subloans disbursed (Rp        Rps. 450  Rps 1,600                  + Rps 1,150 billion
billion)                                  billion      billion
II. Outputs
Number of subproject agreements           >6,000       15,000                             +9,000
Percentage of work agreed completed         >80%         95%   +15%, Final Year 3 figures are not
                                                               yet complete but 95% is estimated.
Percentage of sites visited by             >10%        100%     +90% , All villages are visited by
supervision staff                                                    government and project staff
Recommendations from studies                 Yes          Yes  Studies and evaluations completed
received                                                        in 2001-2002. Recommendations
                                                               incorporated into program design.
III. Impacts
1. Sub-project impacts
Benefits/returns                            >20%         60%      +40%, Weighted average taken
                                                               from sample of KDP infrastructure
Number of beneficiaries                  3 million    Est. 35                         + 32 million
                                                      million
Sub-loans; % repaid by schedule             >80%         45%                                 -35%
2. Poverty assessments using                   X      Yes        Power and sample size feasibility
Susenas household data                                                  study completed in 2001.
                                                               Economic impact assessment to be
                                                                    completed at the beginning of
                                                                 2003 when last round of Susenas
                                                                                 data is available
3. Governance
% of infrastructure subprojects with        >50%         86%                                +36%
O&M committees formed
In kecamatan with sub-loans
 % of UPKs operative                        >50%       100%                                 +50%
 % of revolving funds with increased        >80%                Survey underway in June 2002 to
 capital                                                        ascertain final amount for KDP1.
Audits (kecamatan sample)                  2.5%          30%                             +27.5%
Independent monitoring
 Number of locations providing                 20         240                                +220



                                                 - 22 -

information on kecamatan list                        (distributed through NGOs)
Number of trips by journalists to    20       >250                        >+230
monitor villages
Agreed study recommendations         Yes       Yes             Studies completed




                                        - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal               Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                               Estimate                    Estimate     Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million                US$ million
Grant to Kecamatan                                              189.00                      189.00            100
Technical Assistance for implementation                           34.00                       61.90           182
Monitoring                                                         2.00                        2.00           100
Policy Studies

Total Baseline Cost                                             225.00                      252.90
                          Total Project Costs                   225.00                      252.90
                    Total Financing Required                    225.00                      252.90
Actual/latest estimate: NMC estimates as of 10 January 2003
Percentage of final budget: Final budget includes the supplementary credit of 48.2 million

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB                    Community        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                   Other
                                                                     Participation and


                                                                 Procurement of small works


1. Works                             0.00              0.00            189.00                   0.00       189.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00              0.00               0.00                  0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00              34.00                  0.00       34.00
Consultant Services                 (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00               2.00                  0.00        2.00
Monitoring                          (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00               0.00                  0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00               0.00                  0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             0.00              0.00            225.00                   0.00       225.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)                 (0.00)      (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB               NCB                   Community         N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
                                                                     Participation and


                                                                Procurement of small works


1. Works                             0.00              0.00            189.00                  0.00       189.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)                  (0.00)     (0.00)



                                                   - 24 -

  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00             61.90             0.00             61.90
  Consultant Services                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              2.00             0.00              2.00
  Monitoring                              (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00            252.90             0.00             252.90
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               9/1/97                    9     Economist (1), anthropologist
                                               (1), engineer (1), planner (2),
                                               Disbursement (1), Financial
                                               specialist (1), Environment (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               3/15/98                   5     Anthropologist (1),
                                               Economist (1),
                                               Disbursement/procurement
                                               (1), lawyer (1), engineer (1)


 Supervision

               10/15/1998                 8    ECONOMIST (4); IRRIGATION              S              HS
                                               ENGINEER (1); NGO (2);
                                               GENDER (1)
               10/18/1999                 5    MONITORING AND                         U              HS
                                               EVALUAT (1); ENGINEERING
                                               AND GENDER (1); POVERTY
                                               ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                                               DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                               COUNTRY OFFICER (1)
               05/20/2000                 5    TTL, SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);             S              HS
                                               RURAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                               GENDER SPECIALIST (1);
                                               ECONOMIST (1);
                                               ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1)
               05/20/2000                 1    TASK MANAGER (1)                       S              HS


 ICR
               4/1/03                    2     Anthropologist (1),                    S              HS
                                               Institutions specialist (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  30                           90,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        2                           10,000
  Supervision                               100                           300,000
  ICR                                          3                            6,000
  Total                                     135                           406,000



                                               - 27 -

- 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
    Macro policies                                     H      SU    M     N      NA
    Sector Policies                                    H      SU    M     N      NA
    Physical                                           H      SU    M     N      NA
    Financial                                          H      SU    M     N      NA
    Institutional Development                          H      SU    M     N      NA
    Environmental                                      H      SU    M     N      NA

Social
             Poverty Reduction                         H      SU    M     N      NA
             Gender                                    H      SU    M     N      NA
             Other (Please specify)                    H      SU    M     N      NA
    Private sector development                         H      SU    M     N      NA
    Public sector management                           H      SU    M     N      NA
    Other (Please specify)                             H      SU    M     N      NA
KDP has had a significant impact on government and donor thinking about community-based development
in Indonesia. A large numnber of local governments have copied the core model. Bank and other donor
programs, including the Urban poverty projects, Basic Education, and several Rural Development Projects,
have moved towards the KDP program of direct community financing for subprojects selected through a
community based planning procedure. Paradoxically, while this is all to the good, there are also some
perverse outcomes because the enthusiasm for the KDP system can blind people both to its rigidities and to
the need for intensive work in the areas that KDP doesn't addresss, such as technical service quality,
sub-village targeting, and the need to reform higher level development planning.




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  World Bank Aide-Memoires and Supervision Mission Reports (semi-annual)

2.  KDP First Annual Report (1998-1999). Ministry of Home Affairs, Community Development
    Agency, KDP National Secretariat and National Management Consultants. (English version)

3.  KDP Second Annual Report (1999-2000). Ministry of Home Affairs, Community Development
    Agency, KDP National Secretariat and National Management Consultants. (English and Indonesian
    versions)

4.  KDP Phase One: Final Report, (1998-2002). Ministry of Home Affairs, Community Development
    Agency, KDP National Secretariat and National Management Consultants. (English and Indonesian
    versions)

5.  Internal Monitoring Case Studies: (NMC) (in Indonesian)
    Edition 1: Year 2/2001 Lessons Learned From KDP Year One
    Edition 2: Year 2/2001 Participation of Women and the Poor in KDP
    Edition 3: Year 2/2001 Conflict Resolution in KDP
    Edition 4: Year 2/2001 Information Dissemination and the Role of the FD
    Edition 5: Year 3/2001 Community Participatory Monitoring
    Edition 6: Year 3/2001 The Role of Women Leaders in KDP
    Edition 7: Year 3/2002 The Impact of KDP1 on Local Governance
    Edition 8: Year 3/2002 Infrastructure Best Practices under KDP1

6.  KDP Bi-Monthly Bulletins, 4 editions between August 2001 and May 2002 (Indonesian)

7.  "Brief Overview of KDP", NMC, December 2001 in English and Indonesian

8.  "KDP Activities in Conflict Areas", NMC, June 2002, in English and Indonesian

9.  "Evaluation of Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) Impacts on Community Organization and
    Household Welfare: Book - 1, Demographic Institute, Faculty of Economics, University of Indonesia,
    May 2001.

10. "Evaluation of Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) Impacts on Community Organization and
    Household Welfare: Power and Sample Size Calculation for Feasibility Study", Demographic
    Institute, Faculty of Economics, University of Indonesia, May 2001.

11. "Evaluation of Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) Impacts on Community Organization and
    Household Welfare: Second Round Survey", Demographic Institute, Faculty of Economics,
    University of Indonesia, Final Report, July 2002.

12. "Ex-Post Evaluation of Kecamatan Development Program (KDP) Infrastructure Projects", Geoffrey
    Dent, Project Appraisals Pty Limited, November 2001.

13. "Technical Study on Infrastructure", Infrastructure Technical Study Team, September 2001.
    (Indonesian)




                                                 - 31 -

14.  "Report of the Economic Study Team", Economic Study Team, July 2001. (Indonesian)

15.  "Review of the KDP Microcredit Approach", Consultancy Report, Dr. Detlev Holloh, September
     2001.

16.  "Behavior Change Communication Strategy, KDP: Final Report", Johns Hopkins University/Center
     for Communication Programs, August 2001.

17.  "Focus Group Discussion Results for the Development of Communication Materials", presentation
     materials, Johns Hopkins University/Center for Communication Programs, April 2002.

18.   "Fighting Corruption in KDP", Andrea Woodhouse, July 2001.

19.  "Legal Assistance Program for KDP Communities: A First Assessment of the Legal Assistance Pilot
     Project in Central Java and North Sumatra, August ­ October 2001", Pieter Evers, 15 November
     2001.

20.  "Do Women Make Any Difference?" Gender Data Analysis Interim Report, Susan Wong, February
     2002

21.  "Transparency in Development: The Experience of Mass Media in Monitoring KDP",
     CESDA-LP3ES, November 2001.

Consultants, contracted companies, NGOs and journalists also provided monthly and periodic field reports
which are in the project files.




                                                - 32 -

- 33 -

