                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                  Report No. 35585




                 PROJECT    PERFORMANCE         ASSESSMENT  REPORT

                                       INDONESIA     .     .

          SECOND VILLAGE        INF'RASTRUCTURE       PROJECT (LOAN 4100)
                   AND KECAMATAN         DEVELOPMENT      PROJECT
                              (LOAN/CREDIT      4330/3453)




                                      Ma&h 21,2006




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents (annual official Exchange Rate averages)
Currency Name: Currency Unit:

1996              US$l .OO= Rp 2,348
1997              US$l .OO= Rp 2,953
1998              US$l .OO= Rp 9,875
1999              US$l .OO= Rp 7,809
2000              US$l .OO= Rp 9,675
2001              US$l .OO= Rp 9,420

Abbreviations and Acronvms
CDD               Community-Driven Development
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
GO1               Government of Indonesia
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IEG               Independent Evaluation Group
ID                Institutional Development
KDP               Kecamatan Development Project
KDP2              Second Kecamatan Development Project
KDP3              Third Kecamatan Development Project
kecamatan         Sub-District
LKMD              Lembaga Ketahanan Masyarakat Desa (a village committee)
LMD               Lembaga Musyawarah Desa (a village committee) and in an and in an
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
N-MC              National Management Consultants
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PAD               Project Appraisal Document
PMD               Community Development Agency of the Ministry of Home Affairs
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
PSR               Project Supervision Report
QAG               Quality Assurance Group
VIP2              Second Village Infrastructure Project

Fiscal Year

Government: April 1 to March 31




Director-General, Evaluation                           : Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank           : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation       : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Ms. Nalini &mar

                                                                                 1




        IEG Mission:         Enhancing     development        effectiveness       through    excellence     and independence         in evaluation.


About     this Report
       The Independent          Evaluation   Group assesses the programs             and activities of the World Bank for two purposes              first, to
ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation              process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing              the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved                directions,    policies, and procedures       through the dissemination         of lessons
drawn from experience.           As part of this work, IEG annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending                       operations.     In
selecting operations         for assessment,     preference     is given to those that are innovative,         large, or complex; those that are
relevant to upcoming          studies or country evaluations;        those for which Executive Directors or Bank management                    have
requested      assessments;       and those that are likely to generate          important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approaches       selected     for assessment     support larger evaluation         studies.
       A Project    Performance        Assessment      Report (PPAR)         is based on a review of the Implementation              Completion       Report
(a'self-evaluation       by the responsible       Bank department)         and fieldwork     conducted      by IEG. To prepare       PPARs,      IEG staff
examine      project files and other documents,            interview   operational      staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing.country               for
onsite discussions         with project staff and beneficiaries.          The PPAR thereby         seeks to validate      and augment      the information
provided     in the ICR, as well as examine           issues of special       interest to broader     IEG studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG management                              approval.    Once cleared      internally,   the PPAR
is reviewed      by the responsible       Bank department        and amended         as .necessary.     The completed       PPAR is then sent to the
borrower     for review; the borrowers'         comments       are attached      to the document      that is sent to the Bank's Board          of
Executive      Directors.     After an assessment        report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed               to the public.


About     the IEG Rating         System
       The time-tested        evaluation    methods    used by IEG are suited to the broad              range of the World       Bank's work. The
methods      offer both rigor and a necessary            level of flexibility to adapt to lending        instrument,    project design,    or sectoral
approach.       IEG evaluators      all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings.                   Following   is the definition    and
rating scale used for each evaluation             criterion   (more information        is available   on the IEG website:
http://worldbank.org/IEG/eta-mainpage.               html).
       Relevance       of Objectives:      The extent to which the project's            objectives   are consistent      with the country's     current
development        priorities   and with current     Bank country      and sectoral      assistance     strategies    and corporate     goals (expressed
in Poverty      Reduction     Strategy   Papers,    Country Assistance         Strategies,     Sector Strategy      Papers,    Operational     Policies).
Possible     rafings:   High, Substantial,      Modest,     Negligible.
       Efficacy:    The extent to which the project's           objectives     were achieved,       or expected     to be achieved,     taking   into
account     their relative     importance.    Possible    rat/rigs:  High, Substantial,       Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency:     The extent to which the project achieved,               or is expected     to achieve,    a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capital     and benefits at least cost compared             to alternatives.     Possible    ratings:   High, Substantial,     Modest,
Negligible.     This rating is not generally       applied    to adjustment      operations.
       Sustainability:        The resilience   to risk of net benefits       flows over time. Possible         rafings:  Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely,      Not Evaluable.
       institutional     Development         Impact:    The extent to which a project improves              the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient,          equitable  and sustainable        use of its human, financial,        and natural     resources    through:    (a) better
definition,   stability,   transparency,      enforceability,    and predictability     of institutional   arrangements       and/or   (b) better
alignment      of the mission and capacity         of an organization       with its mandate,       which derives     from these institutional
arrangements.        Institutional   Development       Impact includes       both intended      and unintended       effects of a project. Possible
ratings:   High, Substantial,       Modest, Negligible.                  .
       Outcome:       The extent to which the project's           major relevant      objectives    were achieved,       or are expected     to be
achieved,     efficiently.    Possible   ratings:  Highly Satisfactory,        Satisfactory,   Moderately       Satisfactory,   Moderately
Unsatisfactory,       Unsatisfactory,     Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank      Performance:        The extent to which services          provided    by the Bank ensured          quality at entry and supported
implementation        through    appropriate     supervision     (including    ensuring    adequate     transition   arrangements      for regular
operation     of the project).     Possi'ble ratings: Highly Satisfactory,          Satisfactory,    Unsatisfactory,      Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower       Performance:        The extent to which the borrower             assumed      ownership     and responsibility     to ensure quality
of preparation      and implementation,        and complied       with covenants       and agreements,        towards    the achievement       of
development        objectives    and sustainability.      Possible    ratings:   Highly Satisfactory,      Satisfactory,    Unsatisfactory,     Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    111



Contents

Principal           Ratings                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   V
                                                                            oeeeooeee*eo***eooeeoooeoeoo*eo*eeeeeeeeeee*eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee*oeeeeeeeeeeeeeee*eee~eee*eee




Key Staff Responsible                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V
                                                                                                        eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeoeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee




Preface                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     vii
         eeeeee~eeeoee*eeee*oeeeeeeeeeeeee*eeeee*eeeo*eoeo*eeeeeo*eeoeeoe*ea**oo**eoeeeeoe*oee*eeee*e*eeeeemeeeee*eeeeo*eeeoee*eeoee**e




Summary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ix
                        e*eee*oe**eeoeeee**o*e**eeeeeeoeeeoeoeeeeee*8oeeeeoooo**o*ee*oeom*eeeoeoooeeooeoooo**eeee*oe*~***eoe*eooeae*oeeeeeeeeeeeeee




1. Background                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1 '
                                                                eoe*eeoe*eeeemeeoee*eeeeoeeoeemeee*eo*eee*oeeoeeeeeeeee*ooeeeee*oeeeee*ee*eeoeoeee*oeeeo**ee*oeoeeee*eooeeaeeeeeme




2. Analysis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                    eeo*eeo**eeo**eooe*ooeeoeeeeee*ee*eeeeeoeoee*ooee**eeeeeeee*eeeeeeeoee*eeemeoeoeoeeeemoeeoeeoeeeoee*eoeeooboee*eeeeee*eee



       Outcome ..................*.......................*.........................*.........................................*....4
       Relevance.,.....,..,..............................................,.*.............*.....,....,.....................*..,...5
       Eficacy ...............................*...........................................*.......*................................6
                                                  VIP2 InfrastructureAchievementsin Detail ..................*............................9
                                                  KDP InfjrastructureAchievementsin Detail..........*....*...*............................9
                                                  Efficacyof theEconomicLoans(Micro-Credit) Component...................                                                                                                                                     10
                                                  Efficacyof CommunityProcesses............................................................. 11
                                                  Efficacyin ReachingthePoorandWomen............................................... 15
                                                  MonitoringandEvaluationandStudies....................................................16
       Effic'iency .*...............*,..,........,.....*......,........,*............*......*.....................................18
                                                   CostsComparedwith "Industry Standards".............................................. 18
                                                   EconomicRateof ReturnAnalysis............................................................ 19
                                                   CostRecovery............................................................................................20
                                                   Coststo Communitiesof ParticipatoryApproaches                                                                                                                           ..................................21
                                                   GovernanceandAudit ...............................................................................21
       Institutional Development .........*.........*.*...*..........*..............*.......*..........*............*.23
                                                   CommunityProcessesandSkills...............................................................23
                                                   GovernmentProcessesandSkillsandDecentralizationLinkagesto
                                                                          community support............................................................................24
                                                   TheCommunityFacilitators......................................................................26
       Sustainability ..........~.......~~........~..............~.........~..~..........~......~.........~.....................                                                                                                                             26

                                                   Sustainabilityof PhysicalInfrastructure.....*........*.....................................27
                                                   Sustainabilityof CommunityProcessesandSkillsDevelopment.............28
                                                   Sustainabilityof GovernmentProcessesandCommunity/GovernmentLinkages
                                                                             ................~.........~.......................~...~~.....................~..~~...~.....................~~                                                                   28

               Environmental Sustainability ....................................................................29
       BankPerformance.................................................................................................29

               Bank Safeguards........................................................................................                             30

       Borrower Performance..........................................................................................31

3. Main Findings and Lessons                             oee**eea**eee*e**eee*oeooeoeo*eeeemo***beo**oee*oeeo*o***oeeooeeee*eeeeeeeeeoeeo*eebee    32




Annex      Basic Data Sheet
        Ae                    a*oeeeeeeeeeebee*e*eeeeobmeeeeeeeeeeeb*eeee*eeeeeeb*eebeeeeee*eeeeeeboeeeeebeebeeeobeooeebeme                        35




This report was preparedby Ridley Nelson (consultant),who assessedtheprojectsin October2004.
The report was editedby William Hurlbut, andHelen Phillip andRomaynePereiraprovided
administrative support.

Principal        Ratings

SECONDVILLAGEINFRASTRUCTUREPROJECT

                                      ICR*                  /CR Review*                    PPAR
Outcome                       Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Institutional Development             High                        High                  Substantial
Impact
Sustainability                       Likely                      Likely               Non-evaluable
Borrower Performance          Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Bank Performance              Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory



KECAMATANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                                            ICR Review*                    PPAR
Outcome                       Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory
Institutional Development         Substantial        '       Substantial                Substantial
Impact
Sustainability                      Likely                       Likely               Non-evaluable
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory               Satisfactory              Satisfactory
* The Implementation  Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate IEG product that seeksto independently verify the findings of the ICR.

Key Staff Responsible

SECONDVILLAGEINFRASTRUCTUREPROJECT

                               Task Manager               Division   Chief           Country  Director
Appraisal                      Frida Johansen              Geoffrey Fox               Andrew Steer
Midterm                        Frida Johansen              Mark Wilson                Andrew Steer
Completion                     Frida Johansen              Zafer Ecevit               Andrew Steer


KECAMATANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                               Task Manager               Division   Chief          Country   Director
Appraisal                    Scott Guggenheim              Mark Wilson                Andrew Steer
Midterm                      Scott Guggenheim              Mark Wilson                Andrew Steer
Completion                   Scott Guggenheim              Zafer Ecevit               Andrew Steer


                                               vii

                                                                                        .

Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for two projects in
Indonesia. The Second Village Infrastructure Project (VIP2) was approved for a loan of
$140.1 million on October 10, 1996, and closed on July 3 1,2000, sevenmonths behind
schedule. The final total disbursed was $119.2 million. Substantial depreciation of the
Indonesian rupiah over the project period left unused funds even with an increase in the
number of villages supported. An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was submitted on
December 26,200O (Report no. 20861).The Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) was
approved for a loan of $225 million on June 2,1998, and closed on December 3 i, 2003,15
months behind schedule. The final total disbursed was $252.9 million following a
supplementary credit of $48.2 million to help addressthe macroeconomic crisis of 1997-98.
An ICR was submitted on June 20,2003 (Report No. 26163).

        The PPAR was prepared by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) basedon the
Implementation Completion Reports, the appraisal documents, the Development Credit
Agreements, and a review of Bank files and the literature. The assessmentalso draws on the
substantial project literature which includes two impact studies. The project was discussed
with Bank staff, beneficiaries, and government staff at the central, provincial, district, and
sub-district (kecamatan) levels, and with donors and NGOs. An IEG mission was in the field
for about 23 days and undertook field visits to three of the project areas.The mission was free
to select and talk to any households or groups it chose. The cooperation and assistanceof all
stakeholders and government officials is gratefully acknowledged, as is the support of the staff
of the World Bank Country Office in Indonesia.

       These projects were selected for assessmentparticularly in order to evaluate
community-driven development (CDD) projects said to have performed well. The initial
findings from the field work informed an IEG study on community-based and -driven
development efforts supported by the Bank. Following standard IEG procedures, the draft
PPAR was sent to the Borrower for comments before being finalized. No comments were
received.                                                                                     ,'


                                                  1x



 Summary

         The Government of Indonesia (GOI) strategyfor poverty reduction increasingly hasbeen
 executedusing participatory approachessuchas community-driven development (CDD), which
 give local people more control over their own development. Indonesia'sSecondVillage
 Inf?astructureProject (VIP2) and first KecamatanDevelopmentProject (KDP) offer someimportant
 lessonsfor CDD.

         In both projectsthe objectivesstatementswere somewhatmuddled. In VIP2, the main
 objective was to build small infrastructure.Secondaryobjectiveswere to increasedecentralization
 andcommunity participation. Added, almost asan afterthought,was a statementabout.poverty. The
 statedobjectives of KDP differed .fiornthe logical framework presentedin the appraisaldocument.
 The latter, more consistentwith theproject's design,were to strengthenkecamatan(sub-district)
 andvillage governmentsby empowering them to manageincreasedfunding andbecoming
 accountablefor it andto provide increasedeconomic opportunity at the village level in thepoorest
 kecamatan.The objective of strengtheningto becomeaccountablewas very relevantin the country
 context asfighting corruptionwas high on the governmentandthe Bank's agendaand strengthening
 kecamatanlevel governmentsand supportingparticipatory approacheswas expectedto improve
 local level transparencyand governance.While not explicitly statedin the objectives,KDP was also
 seenasa way to mitigate the impact of the economic andpolitical crisesof the late 1990swhich was
 a time of tremendouspolitical upheavalandfinancial uncertaintyin Indonesia.

         VIP2 had four components:(i) Grantsto villages for infrastructure to assist some 2,600
 villages for construction of public works suchasroads,bridges, water supply, sanitation,
 drainage,and markets; (ii) Technical assistancefor implementation support; (iii) Technical
 assistancefor monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) Government administration (fully financedby
 government).

         KDP was an evolution of VIP2 and also had four components:(i) Block grantsto
 kecamatan.for infrastructure to assistsome 6,000 villages with public works, together with an
 economic loans component; (ii) Technical assistancefor implementation support; (iii)
 Monitoring and evaluation (including studiesand financial oversight); and (iv) Policy studiesto
 focus on procurement guidelines (later canceled).

         The outcome of VIP2 is rated satisfactory andthat of KDP is rated moderately
 satisfactory. Both projects achievedmore than twice their plannedphysical targetsand made
 important stridesin enhancingparticipatory processes,though the physical achievementsin KDP
 were made possible in part by a supplementarycredit of $48.2 million which addedabout 25
percent to the loan. However, poverty targeting, while basedon the national community poverty
-data, appearsto have beeninfluenced in practice by political considerations.Women's
participation in decision making improved;but was constrainedby the inherent difficulty of
 changing an entrenchedsocial system.Poverty and genderfocus advancedasthe seriesof
projects evolved, but both the Bank andthe Borrower took too much of a hands-oEapproachto
the existing community-level power relationships and to community decision making. The road
and bridge investments generally appearto have yielded equitable benefits. However, the micro-
credit component of KDP (23 percent of the project cost) was not successful.The poor, as defined
by the poverty line, constituted only sevenpercentof borrowers and,as'the component had no .

                                                   X


institutional home and.theborrowers had insufficient microfinance skills, the component
achievedpoor repaymentrates.This could havebeenpredicted basedon Bank experienceat the
time. The continued wide presenceof corruption in KDP, documentedin the Bank's project files
and the literature, was also a seriousshortcoming especially since the project was expectedto
promote accountability and institutional transparency.Sustainability for both projects is rated
non-evaluable owing to uncertainties aboutthe impact of future reform andconcernsabout
maintenance.

         Both projects transferredfunds to the community level andthereforecontributed to
decentralization. The projects however strengthenedthe lowest village and sub-district levels, but
not the district level, which the projects largely bypassed.

         The experienceof theseprojects, supportedby other work carried out by IEG, suggests
               .
six lessons:
             A project's poverty objectivesneedto be translatedinto clearly definedpoverty and
             poverty processindicators (outcomeandoutput) in the PAD andbe monitored and
             evaluated.
             The extentof project managementintervention at community level needsto support
             targetsfor achievingpoverty andgenderobjectives.Too much of a hands-off approach
             by project managementat the community level on issuesof poverty and gendermay
             insufficiently challengethe statusquo.
             Maintenanceof intiastructure shouldbe anintegral part of any inkastructure        .
             constructionintervention. A maintenancestrategyshouldbe developedthat addresses
             the total community infrastructurechallengenot simply that of the project portions. The
             assessedfeasibility of sustainingmaintenanceat the community level shouldbe
             reflectedback into investmentdecisionson the funding of new infrastructure.
             The costsof beneficiary participation needto be reducedasthe number of programs
             increases.Fosteringa common participatory decisionprocedurefor all donorand
             government-fimdedparticipatory projectsandprogramswould reducebeneficiary time
             spentin,meetings,enhanceprioritization, andreducecostsof facilitation andtechnical
             support.
             The rural finance lessonsof the pastarewell documentedandremain valid but werenot
             heeded'inKDP. Effective and sustainablerural finance calls for an institutional capacity
             to evaluatedebtcapacity, a sustainableinstitutional home, low costs,and strong
             incentives for the borrower(s)to remain in good standing.In KDP it was a mistake to
             force an economicloans componentinto a grantsprogram outsidea carefully prepared
             rural financeintervention.There is no experiencethat suggeststhat, in a crisis situation,
             theserules areless applicable.
         l   In aproject that spe&ically aims to promote transparency,accountabili$ and improved
             governance,it is essentialto define at the outsetsome kind of baseline(andrelated
             milestones)regardingthe level of corruption, so asto measureprogress.




                                                                 VinodThomas
                                                                 Director-General
                                                                 Evaluation

 10       Background

 11       TheGovernmentof Indonesia(GOT)increasinglyhasgivenpriority to alleviating
povertythroughcommunity-drivendevelopment.Thegovernment'sstrategicapproachto
povertyreductionincludesfinancialtransferprograms,extensionof thescopeandqualityof
 socialservices,regionaldevelopmentprogramsto addressparticularareasof inequality,
developmentof improvedmethodologiesandinformation,andsupportfor economic
initiativesandlabor-intensiveworks,

 12       Indonesia'sextremefinancialandpoliticalcrisesin thesecondhalf of the 1990s
combinedwith aprolongeddroughtto`pushthecountry'sruralpoordeeperinto poverty.
Nationally,theeconomicshockwasenormous:economicgrowthin 1998declinedto minus
 14percentin contrastto the 8percentannualgrowthratesof earlieryears.Once-highratesof
rural-to-urbanmigrationreversedduringthecrisis.Governmentstrategiesto addressthe
economiccrisishingedonlabor-intensivework programsanddirectcashpayments.However, .
thecrisishadalsohighlightedproblemsin Indonesia'seconomicgovernancethat earlierhad
beendownplayedandnow neededto beaddressed.Changesin ruralareashadweakened
traditionalsocialstructures,reducedthepowerof traditionalleaders,andchangedcustomary
practicesin landtenure.

13       In thiscontext,WorldBanksupportwasrequestedfor theVillageInfrastructure2
Project(VIP2) andKecamatanDevelopmentProject(KDP). Whentheprojectswereprepared,
therefore,improvingthecapacity,transparency,andresponsivenessof localgovernmentwere
consideredprerequisitesfor Indonesia'srecovery.

14.      Objectives. In bothprojectstheobjectivesstatementsweresomewhatmuddled.The
mainstatedobjectiveof VIP2, to build smallinfrastructurein poorruralvillages,focusedon
outputsratherthanoutcomes.Secondaryobjectiveswereto increasedecentralizationand
communityparticipation.Addedalmostasanafterthoughtin theappraisalreportwasa
statementthat"the broadestobjectiveis to reduceruralpoverty"`. Theindicatorsin the
appraisalalsowerenotwell formulatedbeingsimplyphysicalinfrastructureachievementsand
associatedemployment.Theobjectivesof KDP, asstatedin theappraisaldocumentwereto
raiserural incomes,strengthenkecamatan andvillagegovernmentandcom.munity
institutions,andbuildpublicinfrastructurethroughlabor-intensivemethods.But thelogical
frameworkin thesamedocumenthadsomewhatdifferentobjectivesthatweremore
consistentwith theprojectdesign.Thesewereto strengthenkecamatan andvillage
governmentby empoweringthemto manageincreasedfundingandbecomingaccountablefor
it andto provideincreasedeconomicopportunityatthevillagelevelin thepoorest
kecamatans. Thus,in thelogicalframework,increasedeconomicactivitywasthemeansto
increasedincomes.Thiswasespeciallyrelevantsincetheprojectwaspartlyrespondingto the
economiccrisis.Theaccountabilityobjectivewasalsovery relevantasreducingcorruption


1. The project was classified asatargeted poverty reduction intervention at atime when this designation was still used.

                                                          2


washighon theagendaof theGovernmentandtheBankandstrengtheningkecamatan
governmentsandsupportingparticipatoryapproacheswasexpectedto improvelocal-level
transparencyandgovernance.2

15.      VIP2 Components:


          l    Grantsto villagesfor infrastructure($130million)to assistabout2,600villages
            . (laterincreasedto 7,044)throughtheconstructionof publicworkssuchasaccess
               roads,bridges,watersupplyschemes,sanitationfacilities,drainage,markets,boat
               piers,andothersmallinfrastructure.Theprojectessentiallyrepeatedandextended
               theearlierVillageInfrastructureProjectfor Java.
          l    Technicalassistancefor implementationsupport($18million)to providetechnical
               supportfor specialistconsultantsatthelocallevel.
          l    Technicalassistancefor monitoringandevaluation($3million)to providesupport
               for monitoringandevaluation(M&E) andinformationsystems.
         l     Increasethegovernmentadministration(fully financedby government;$7million)
               to providegovernmentwith thecapacityto planandimplementtheproject.

16       KDP Components: Thedesignof thisprojectwasarefinementof the earlierVIP2,
but with theadditionof aloanssub-componentto thegrantscomponent:                               .

               Blockgrantsto kecamatanfor infrastructure($221million)to assistbythethirdyear
               about6,000villagesthroughtheconstructionof publicworkssuchasaccessroads,
               bridges,watersupplyschemes,sanitationfacilities,drainage,markets,boatpiers,and
               othersmallinfrastructureandeconomicloans.
               Technicalassistancefor implementationsupport($32million)to providetechnical
               supportfor specialistconsultantsatthelocallevel.
               Monitoringandevaluationto providesupportfor M&E, studies,andfinancial
               oversight($2million).
               Policystudies($2million)to focusonprocurementguidelines.

A supplementalcreditin theequivalentof US$48.2millionwasapprovedinDecember2000to
coverthethird andfourthyearof operations.ThisoccurredbecauseKDP wasscaledup
significantlyin theearlyyearsin responseto theeconomiccrisis,creatingafinding gap.The
policystudiescomponentwascanceled.

17       VIP2 coveredJavaandSumatra.KDP alsoincludedKalimantan.Thenumberof
villagessupportedunderVIP2by thethird yearwas7,044,nearlythreetimestheoriginal

2. The 2003 CAS refers to the important role of projects that open multiple entry points in the fight against
corruption. It notes: "A central lesson of the Bank Group's experience in Indonesia is that our entire successwill
be judged by the contribution that our programs are seen to make towards greater transparency and
accountability, and by the standards of integrity with which we implement these programs." A paper by Judith
Edstrom Indonesia `sKecamatan Development Project Is It Replicable? 2002 notes: "The project's objective is
fundamentally radical: it aims to institute transparency and democracy from the bottom up in a country where
serious abuse of office and top-down planning have been endemic."

                                                           3


 target.Thenumberof villagessupportedunderKDP by thethird yearwas 15,000,morethan
 doubletheoriginaltarget.Theincreasedcoveragewaslargelydueto depreciationof the
 rupiah,asupplementalBankcreditfor KDP, andadditionalgovernmentcontributionaidedby
 keepingcostsdown.VIP2 wascompletedinjust overthreeyearsandKDP injust overfive
 years.

 18        Bothprojectsprovidedadirectlineof grantinfrastructurefunding(including
 economicloansin thecaseof KDP) to villagesto fundtheir selectedpriorities.Themajority
wasusedfor rural roadsandbridges,but few investmentswereineligible,fewerin KDP than
 in VIP2.3Otherinvestmentsselectedweredrainage,irrigation,water supply,andmarkets.The
projectssupportedadecisionprocessandfacilitatorsto helpdevelopproposalsatvillage
 level,whichwerethenpassedupto thedistrictlevelfor approval,in VIP2, andto the
kecamatan (sub-district)levelfor competitiveselection,in KDP. (Laterin KDP, if therewere
two proposals,onehadto comefrom women.)Decisionsatcommunitylevelinvolvedaseries
of meetingsandvillage-levelplanning..Wageswere.paidfor laborbut atratesdecidedbythe
villageandgenerallybelowgoingrates.Therefore,therewassomelocalcontributionbacked
by avoluntarylocalcash/materialscontributionwhichcameto lessthan10percentin total.

 19        TheprojectsfollowedaCDD approach,givingcommunitiesimplementationand
fundsmanagementresponsibility,with provisionfor voluntarybeneficiarycontributionrather
thancompulsory,asis commonin CDD. Theprojectslargelyfollowedahands-offapproach,
leavingmostdecisionsandfundsmanagementto thecommunities.Onceapproved,funds
weretransferredto thevillageandconstructionwasmanagedbythevillagewith technical
assistance.By thetimeof KDP, fundswerepassingdirectlyfrom thecentralgovernmentto
thevillage.About 30,000localfacilitators(technicalconsultants)werefundedto provide
supportbutwereanswerableto thecommunities.In KDP, economicloanswentto groups
formedfor thepurpose.Also,in KDP afinancialunit supportedfinancialmanagementand
accountskeepingatthekecamatan level.TheapproachgraduallyevolvedthroughVIP2and
into KDP with broadeninginvestmentoptions,greaterattentionto povertyandgender,


3. Infrastructure subprojects in VIP2 had to meet several requirements: a) it had to be a public infrastructure,
technically and environmentally viable, and justified by the nuniber of users and the cost per user; b) the funding
available-the   village grant and any village contributions -must  be estimated to be sufficient to complete the
subproject; c) for any land or assetsrequirement that would negatively affect a villager's income and require
compensation, the village and the affected family would agree on compensation that would improve or restore the
living standard, income earning, or production capacity of the affected persons to preksubproject levels in
accordance with the agreed Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement.; d) implementation plan, contractual
arrangements, a work plan, and number of village laborers must be clear; and e) approaches to provide
subsequent maintenance of the subproject m-t     be agreed, including assignment of responsibilities for
maintenance works, training for maintenance designees, and financing, as necessary.

The VIP menu of infrastructure choices was expanded under KDP to accommodate larger and different types of
works, such as check darns, small irrigation schemes, markets, etc. and eventually also maintenance. Project
menus were open to all productive investments except for a short negative list of activities that were
environmentally damaging (manufacture or use of asbestos, fishing boats of 10 tons or more and tackle,
pesticides, dynamite, and agro-chemicals) and expenditures for religious and government buildings and
government salaries, and for military or paramilitary purposes.

                                                           4


  increasingdevolutionof powerto thecommunity,increasingfocusoncorruption(seeBox 5
  for KDP strategyto dealwith corruption),greaterdiscussionbelowthevillagelevel,and
  manyotherenhancementsaslessonswerelearned.



  20       Analysis

  OUTCOME

  21       Theoutcomeof theVIP2 projectisratedSatisfactorybasedonthe assessmentsof
  relevance,efficacy,andefficiencydiscussedbelow.TheVIP2 objectiveto buildsmall
  infrastructurewasachievedwell beyondtargets.Theobjectiveto increasedecentralization
  andcommunityparticipationwasachievedatkecamatanandcommunitylevelsandoffered
  lessonsfor thewide expansionof theapproachthatfollowed.Both projects largelybypassed
  the district level.With respectto thebroaderpovertyreductionaim,field visits andaproject
  impactstudysuggestwidebeneficiarysatisfactionwith theinvestments.Howeverthereare
  concernsaboutmaintenancewhich applyto bothVIP2 andKDP(para2.3below).In addition,
  (but alesserreasonfor not goingto aHighly Satisfactoryrating)giventhepovertyreduction
  intentof theproject,theinclusionof anumberof lesspoorvillages,partly for political
  reasons,undercutthepovertyfocus.Thatsaid,in villageswheretheproj.ectintervened
  attendanceof thepooratmeetingsappearsto havebeenat leastadequate,but thequalityof
  inputEromthepoorremainsunclear.However,it would beunreasonableto expectveryrapid
. gainsin thevoiceof thepoorgiventhelong-entrenchedsocialenvironment.

  22       Theoutcomeof KDP isratedModerately Satisfactorybasedontheassessmentof
  relevance,efficacy,andefficiencydiscussedbelow.As with VIP2,KDP strengthenedvillage
  andkecamatangovernments,thoughweaknessesremainin achievingtheaccountability
  elementof theobjectiveassignificantleakageof resourcesandcorruptionoccurreddespite
  thecreativeanti-corruptionmeasuresput in placeto preventthem.Whiletheproject
  objectivesdidnot explicitlyclaimto strengthenthedistrict government,supportfor
  decentralizationwasimplicit in theproject.TheKDP economicloanscomponent(23percent
  of total costs)is generallyacknowledgedto havenotbeensuccessfulandit exhibitedmarginal
  efficiencyasacreditoperationbecauseof weakrepayment.Thisisthedeterminingelementin
  thejustification for goingto onlyModeratelySatisfactory,nearlyaquarterof theproject
  fundingresultedin unsatisfactoryperformance.4However,aconcernaboutmaintenanceasan
  elementin assessingoutcomenotedin thefollowingparagraphalsoappliesto KDP. Further,
  owingto thesocialpatternsin communities,in bothprojects,despitegoodmeeting
  attendance,progresstowardgenuine,high-qualityparticipationin decisionmakingbythe
  poorermembersof thecommunityandwomenwasprobablymodest.



  4. IEG rates a project as moderately satisfactory when it is expected to achieve most of its relevant obj ectives but
  with significant shortcomings as in the case of the economic loan component.

                                                           5


23.       Giventheobjectiveof establishingacommunityparticipationprocess,concernsabout
communitymaintenancecapacity,andthereforesustainability,areseenasintegralin assessing
outcome,in bothprojects.It seemsclearfrom missionobservationthatvillagesdonot have
the'capacityto maintaintheescalatingvolumeof infrastructurethattheyareexpectedto
maintainevenif, for aperiod,theycanmaintainsomeof it. Thereremain,therefore,questions
aboutwheresuchprogramsareheadedin theabsenceof greatercommunityrevenuecapacity,
especiallyin poorercommunitiesandwhereasphaltroadshaveincreased,andwhether
constructionof furtherinfrastructureis reallyasoundstrategygiventhispersistent
maintenanceissue.Thetechnical/economic/socialdilemmaisthat, in theveryhighrainfall of
muchof Indonesia,dirt roadsdonot lastwell, asphaltplacedontop of low costdirt*roadsnot
designedto takeasphaltlastonly somewhatbetter,andgoodasphaltlastswell givengood
drainagebut is generallyoutof reachof mostcommunitiesfor maintenance.Thesolutionof
rebuildingroadsthroughoutsidesupport(donoror government)everytenyearsmaystill give
an'acceptableERRbut isnot anefficient developmentstrategyandin theendis likely to
underminecommunityparticipation.Notethattheissueis not onesimplyrelatedto VIP or
KDP-fundedinfrastructureandthequalityof maintenanceof thosequitemodestsizedpieces,
theissueisrelatedto all villageinfrastructureandtheplaceof VIP andKDP within that
infrastructurechallenge?


RELEVANCE

24       Relevanceof bothprojectswassubstantial,butwith somequalification.Theobjectives
wererelevantto boththeBankandcountrystrategyatthetimeandremainedsothroughoutthe
199?98economiccrisis.KDP wasparticularlyrelevantgivenitstimingin relationto the
economiccrisisandtheconcernwith respectto increasedcorruption.6
                          s

25       Thisassessmentdidnothavethecapacityto pursueseveralrelevancequestionsrelated
to thetwo projects.First,extendingvillage,infrastructurethroughnewinvestmentsmayhave
beenlessrelevantfor meetingpovertyobjectivesthanenhancingmaintenanceof existing


5: A KDP project document noted in 2004 that all the consulting teams were in agreement that the most pressing
post-construction issue that needed to be addressed comprehensively by l!%P management was maintenance.              In
many villages hard won benefits were in real danger of eroding to pre-project conditions, especially for roads.
The report also found that very little serious thought had been given to the high repair costs that arise periodically
as natural wear-and-tear begins to take its toll.   Costs of repairs for roads and water systems were significantly
underestimated. For the villages analyzed, it was clear that the O&M burden, especially for roads, was too great
for the majority of villages to shoulder.

6. "Corruption  has a long history in Indonesia. It has plagued governments since early independence (which was
declared in 1945 and internationally recognized in 1949), although it arguably reached the greatest heights-in
terms of sheer scale, sophistication, and damage-when      the new Order began in 1966. In the period of
parliamentary liberal democracy (1950-59) and during the Sukamo-dominated        Guided Democracy (1959.65),
corruption and abuse of power had already commonly taken the form of alliances among political patrons and
business clients who were regularly given special privileges in the shape of licenses and other nontransparent
business opportunities. This was to be apattern replicated during the New Order. The big difference was that the
economic cake was to grow so much larger-as       was scale of the resources that could be misappropriated."
V.Bhargava and E Bolongaita 2004. Challenging Corruption in Asia The World Bank.

                                                            6


infrastructure,at leastin somevillages.7Second,giventhepovertyreductionintentof the
projects,theinclusionof anumberof lesspoorvillages,partly for politicalreasons,undercut
thepovertyfocus.Thepovertyselectionprofile wouldhavebeendifferenthadvillagesbeen
strictly povertyrankednationally.*Third,theIndonesiangovernmentinstitutedamajor
decentralizationprogramin 1999.'It isnot clearhow KDP, in bypassingthedistrict level,
conformedwith thatprogram.It is alsonotclearhow far thebypassingof government
institutionsandthecreationofparallel institutionsto overseetheimplementationof theKDP
programaffectedtheoveralldecentralizationprogram.loTheseissuesarewider thanthe
experienceof theseindividualprojects,however,andshouldbeexploredfurther.Fourth,
agriculturaltechnologyremainsweak,especiallyoutsidetheareasof moreintensive
cultivationandhigherrainfall,andseemsto beunder-investedin nationally.Thisraisesthe
questionof whetheranequivalent(or greater)investmentin agriculturalresearchand
extensionmighthaveequaledor exceededthepovertyreductionimpactof theseprojects.
Supportfor agriculturaltechnologyhasgenerallyshownveryhigheconomicreturnsand
satisfactorypovertyimpacts,andthereforemighthavebeenacompetitivealternative."The                                    _
missiondid nothavetheresourcesto pursuethisquestionfar enoughin relationto therecent
supportfor research(AgriculturalResearchProject'2with total costsof*@2million at
completion)andthefurtherassistanceproposed.

EFFICACY

26         Efficacy-the extentto whichtheprojectobjectiveswereachievedtakinginto account
theirrelativeimportance-is ratedsubstantialfor VIP2 butmodestfor KDP, although
baselineindicatorswerelimited.                        .




7. It could be argued that some of the investment was, in fact, delayed maintenance.

8. The mission visited. several VIP2 and KDP project villages in West Java where the majority of households
appeared quite well off relative to those seen, for example, in Kalimantan.

9. Decentralization Law 22 that assigns all government expenditure to the districts (kabupaten) except for
fmance, foreign affairs, defense, religion and state administration was passed on May 7, 1999 and Law 25 that
provides the details of fiscal decentralization was passed on May 19, 1999.

10. "KDP provided for funds to flow directly from a central project account to ajoint village account at a local
sub-district bank, processed by the branch office ofthe national Treasury. At no stage do funds pass through a
government ministry.. .. ... ...It runs counter to a Bank-wide trend during the 1990's to move away from heavy
reliance on project implementation units (PIUS) by "putting government in the driver's seat," strengthening
government institutions, and insisting that projects and programs be implemented by government agencies. In
fact, ,the KDP National Management Consultants (NMC) office in Jakarta is in reality a PIU, or at best an in-
house NGO. It also runs counter to some decentralization initiatives that originate with federal government
offices, and subsequently cascade down through development plans prepared at various levels." Judith Edstrom
Indonesia `8sKecamatan Development Project Is It Replicable? Social Development Papers, Paper No. 39, The
World Bank, March 2002.

11. Agricultural technology has been neglected both nationally and by donors in recent years and, globally, IEG has
concluded that this decline has gone beyond what would be justified by the falling percentage of agriculture in GDP.

27.        Theobjectivesagainstwhich VIP2 isratedarethosein thetext of theappraisal.Based
onmonitoringandevaluationdata,theobjectiveof building small infrastructure was
 achievedat alevelof morethandoubletheoriginaltargetwith alittle overaone-year
extension.VIP2built infrastructurein 7,044villagesagainsttheplanof 2,600atalocal
currencyvalueof nearlythreetimestheplan.HoweverasindicatedearlierunderOutcome,
thereareconcernsaboutthecapacityof communitiesto maintaintheinfrastructure.
Decentralization atthedistrict levelwasnot reallyhelpedmuchbyVIP2,but,theproject
madesignificantprogresswith theobjectiveof decentralizationandcommunityparticipation
at kecamatan andvillagelevels,thelowerlayersin thedecentralizationhierarchy.12
Communityparticipationwascertainlyincreasedasis evidentin mostvillagesfrom village
meetingrecords.With respectto theobjectiveof reducingpoverty, it is difficult to measure
andattributein aggregatesignificantchangesin broaderruralpovertyindicatorsto modest
lengthsof villageroadsorbridges,oftenrelevantonlyto oneparticularhamlet.However,the
economicanalysisfor VIP2,thesubsequenteconomicanalysisfor KDP for similar
infrastructure,andindividualstructuresassessedby missionfield visits,partly through
discussionof landvalues,implyhighfinancialandeconomicbenefitsto thosebeneficiaries
within theserviceareaof theinfrastructurebuilt by theproject.Themissionobservedthat
while communityparticipationhadbeenclearlyenhancedat thecommunitylevel,some
uncertaintiesremainedabouttheextentto whichthepoorestandwomenhadtakentheir
"voice" qualitativelybeyondmerelyattendanceatmeetingsandparticipationin labor.13The
achievementvariedbyprovince.

28        Theobjectivesusedto evaluateKDP weretakenfrom theLogicalFramework(see
para.-1.4).With respectto thefirst of thoseobjectives,KDP doesappearto havestrengthened
kecamatan andvillagecommunitiesby supportingthemin themanagementof increasedfunds
andgivingthemfull responsibilityfor fundsmanagementandimplementation,including
substantialfacilitationsupportandtraining.With respectto thekecamatanlevel,whiledifficult
to measure,thedecisionmakingneededto allocatethecompetingprojectresourcesandthe
facilitationandtrainingprovidedappearto haveimprovedskillsatthatlevel.Capacityfor book
keepingandcommunityfacilitationhasalsobeenenhancedatthekecamatanlevelthrough
trainingandpractice,althoughsustainabilityisquestionable.A numberof outputandoutcome
changeshaveoccurred,including:theactivitiesof community-operatedvillageimplementation
teams(observedbyjournalistsandreportedinmonitoring),increasingcommunitydemandson
government(reportedin studies),-increasedopennessof biddingprocess&atvillagelevel(arule
thatwasimposedandfollowed-as reportedinmeetingsminutes),greaterinformation(still


12. .However, in VIP2 the project manager was located at district level and some technical skills were located at
that level.

13. In weighting the importance of targeting the poor, M. Ravallion and S. Chen, TVhat Can New Survey Data Tell
Us about Recent Changes in Distribution and Poverty?" World Bank, 1997, is a relevant study. It uses Indonesia
data and finds that even at apoverty line of 20 percent of the population, nearly halfthe population are vulnerable to
poverty given the evidence on income variability. Households in Indonesia have about an even chance of facing a
poverty episode once in three years. The authors point out that the poor at any given time are only a fraction of those
who must worry about, and struggle to avoid, falling into poverty. This would suggest, for Indonesia, that the extent
to which poverty targeting is critical to project poverty performance should not be under-estimated.

                                                         8


evidentoncommunitynoticeboards),increasedreportingof andactiononcorruption(as
reportedin astudyof corruptionandbymonitoringreports),greaterattendanceatmeetings,and
increasednumbersof proposalsfromwomen(anoutsideinterventionthatbecamearequirement
underKDP). However,considerableevidencefrom Bankinternalfilesandfrom theliterature
showsthatleakageof resourcesandcorruptionremainsignificantproblemsin KDP. Thisraises
concernsabouthowmuchkecumatunandvillagegovernmentswereactuallyableto become
accountable.

29        With respectto creatingeconomicopportunityatthevillagelevel,therearethree
findings.First,theimpactof smallinfrastructureonincome,oftenrelevantmainlyto one
hamlet,is difficult to measureandattribute,butthegenerallyhighsubprojecteconomicrates
of returnin theeconomicanalysiscasestudies(andin morerecentanalysisundertakensince
theIEG mission),supportedby missionfield questioningof individualsaboutlandvaluesand
missioncalculationsonsite,suggestthateconomicopportunitywasenhancedsignificantlyin
thebeneficiaryhamlets.Second,theinfrastructurewascreatedwith very labor-intensive
methodsproviding25million workdaysfor.about2.8million peopleatatime of economic
crisis.Third, asubstantialnumberof productiveinvestmentswith incomeearningcapacity
werebuilt, including5,200irrigationsystems,400marketstructures,and260village
electrificationactivities.Fourth,women'slaborwasreleasedthrough2,800cleanwaterunits.
Theactualnumberof subprojectswasmorethantwice thenumberplannedat appraisaldueto
lowerunit costs,additionalfundingdueto devaluationandthe supplementalcredit,and
additionalsupportfrom government.l4Fifih, creditmustbegivenin weighingthescaleof
thesebenefitsfor the factthatKDP (buildingontheearlierVIP experience)providedthe
knowledgebasefor anumberof whathavebeentermedKDP "copy-cat"projectsbyboththe
governmentandotherdonors.However,aswith VIP2,theseinfrastructureachievementsmust
betemperedwith theconcernsaboutcommunitycapacityto maintainitstotal stockof
infrastructure.Sincemuchof theinfrastructureis still relativelynewthefull burdenof thisis
still ahead.

2.10      With respectto thequestionof whetherthepoorestkecamatanwerereached,thedata
for selectedkeiamatanandvillagessuggeststhattherewassomebendingof theselection
rulesfor politicalreasons.If anationalrankingregardlessof provincehadbeenused,selection
wouldhavebeendifferentlydistributedin provincesandislands.

2.11      In particular,asignificantweaknesswasthat in theloanscomponent,which wasabout
23percentof totalprojectcosts,eficiencywasmodestdueto variablebut oftenweak
repayments.Thiscomponentis discussedin moredetailbelow(para.2.16).




14. The Region in its comments notes that the physic&l achievements under the KDP project need to be seen in
the context of the prevailing country environment: a collapsing portfolio, currency crisis and civil war in nearly a
third of the participating provinces.

                                              9


  VIP2 Infrastructure   Achievements in Detail

  2.12    Theoriginalprojectobjectivesremained,but thenumberof villages.assistedincreased
  from theoriginaltargetof 2,600to 7,044.An extendedprogramwasaddedfor JavaandBali
  covering2,596villages.No initial sub-projectinvestmenttargetsweremadenorwere
  projectionsattempted;projectdocumentsarguedthatthiswasimpossiblegiventhevillagers'
  freedomto choose.Villagesbuilt atotal of 15,069kilometersof roads,42.5kilometersof
  bridges,4.9kilometersof piers,8,722communalwatersupplyunits,4,877sanitationunits,
  140irrigationsystems,58markets,and84othertypesof infrastructure.All infrastructurewas
  of.modestdesigncomplexityto keepcostsdown.In fmancialyear1998/99,dueto the
  economiccrisis,thegovernmentinitiatedamorewidespreadworksprogramwith its own
  funds(PDM-DKI). Dueto implementationdifficultiesin Sumatra-thisislandwasleft out of
  thethird programyearandput in with anOECFprogram,which alsobecameaform of VIP as
  it shiftedresponsibilityfor managingcontractsfrom theagenciesto thevillages..Thisis one
  exampleof thedemonstrationimpactof VIP. More recently,theKecamatanDevelopment
  Projectcoveredsomesubdistrictson Sumatra..

  2.13    Whiletherewerenotargets,atotalofjustunder2millionpersonsworkedontheVIP2
  projectfor approximately50million person-daysof work, anaverageof about25daysper
  personemployed.Approximately40percentof thefundingwentdirectlyto villages,with
  another40percentfor materialssuchasstone,whichalsorequiredlocallabor,and20percent
  for "imported" materialssuchascementandtransport.Annualincomefromtheprojectper
  workeremployedwasapproximately$25.Thiscompareswith typicalannualincomesperpoor
  personof $150to $200peryear.Approximately'15percentof thevillagepopulationsworked
  directlyontheproject:58percentweremen,15percentwomen,and30percentyouths.

  2.14    Nearly6millionpersonsappearto havebenefited,representingabout50percentof the
  populationof thebeneficiaryvillages.TheVIP2ImpactStudynotedin para2.1covered233
  villagesby 1997/98,butthemethodologyfor benefitestimationwasquitesubjectiveasbenefits
  wereestimatedqualitativelybybeneficiariesas"good," "fair," or "poor," andcommunity
  estimatesof financialbenefitsfi-omsubprojectswerewithin ranges(e.g.,Rp 0to Rp 10million;
  Rp 10millionto Rp 25million, etc.)andit isnotclearhowthesewereestimated.Non-
  quantifiedbenefitsreportedby villagesincludedeasiervisitsto healthcenters,additionalvillage
 business,changesin croppingpatterns,improvedsecurity,andeasiertravelto school.Basedon
  theseestimates,some40percentof villageswereestimatedto haveachievedbenefitsequalto or
_ abovecostswithin asingleyear.Otherstookalittle longerto breakeven.A post-construction
. reviewstudyin 2000assessedthestandardsof maintenanceandratesof infrastructure
  deteriorationandconcludedthatby thefinalyearof theproject,about7percentof roadsand
 bridgesbuilt in Javaweredeficientin qualitydueto lackof maintenanceandabout12percent
 weredeficientin Sumatra,wheretheprojecthadnotperformedwell for qualityeveninitially.

 KDP Infrastructure    Achievements in Detail

 2.15     With respectto theobjectiveof supportingcommunitiesto buildinfrastructure
 throughlabor-intensivemethods,thetargetswerenot definedbytypeof infrastructuresince
 choicewasopen.However,thenumberof subprojectagreementswasplannedat 6,000and

                                                            10


actualachievementwith thesupportof thesupplementarycreditof $48.2million was 15,000.
By projectclosing95percentof theworkshadbeencompleted(comparedto aprojectionof
 80percent).Theamountof localfundsdisbursedwasaboutfour timestheprojection
alongsidean80percentdevaluationof therupiahandthesupplementarycredit.With respect
to quantities,19,000kilometersof roadwerebuilt or upgraded,and3,500bridges,2,800
water supplyunits,5,200irrigationsystems,1,300sanitationunits,and400marketswere
built. Thereisno doubtfrom field discussionthatlabor-intensivemethodswereused,albeit
probablyatsomecostto qualityandsustainability,particularlyfor roadsbuilt onsoilswhere
compactionisimportant.Thepurposeof thelabor-intensivemethodswaspartly to provide
incomesupportto thepoorercommunitymembersduringtheextremeeconomicdeclinegiven
thatamainobjectivewaseconomicopportunity.Whilethiswasachieved,it wasnot clearto
themissionthat theintendedself-targetingworkedeffectively.It wasanticipatedthatwages
wouldbesufficientlylow thatonlythepoorestwouldbeinterested;however,owingpartlyto
theeconomiccrisis,interestin this work waswidespread,at leastin Java,andin mostcases
supplyanddemandhadto bebalancedby someform of rationing,suchassharingout labor
betweenhouseholdapplicants.Nevertheless,thisunderscorestheimportanceof incomeasa
crisismitigationmeasure.

Efficacy of the EconomicLoans(Micro-Credit) Component

2.16       As reportedin theICR, thiscomponentin KDP wasunsatisfactory.Theeconomic
loansormicro-creditelementof this componentwasbarelytouchedonin themaintext of the
appraisal.It isnot mentionedin thecomponenttableanddiscussionof therepaymentissueis
hiddenin the CostBenefitAnalysisAnnex.It is doubtfulwhetheranExecutiveDirector's
office would havenoticedthattherewasacreditcomponent.Ashasbeenpointedoutby IEG
before,thestructureof appraisaldocuments,whichasksonly for asummarytableof
componentsandcostsin themaintext, encouragesinadequatedescriptionof project
components.In this appraisal,theheadingin themaintext table"KecamatanDevelopment
Grants"is actuallymisleadingsinceaportionwasto beloans.l5Repaymentrateswereabout
20percentin areasthatweremoreremote,poorer,andhadnohistoryof creditbutrangedup
to 90percentin areasthat,werelesspoor andhadexperiencewith credit.The"joint and
severalliability" for repaymentwithin groupsoftendidnotwork becausetherewasno
expectationof continuity,no institutionallinks,andsomeof thegroupswerehastily
assembled.Therefore,whenonepersonin thegroupdefaulted,insteadof grouppressureto
repay,oftenotherssimplydecidedthat therewasnoreasontheyshouldrepayeither.While
individualrecordswerekeptatvillagelevelandgrouprecordskeptat theFinancial
ManagementUnit atthekecamatanlevel,theassessmentmissionfoundthat,oncetheproject
closed,collectionefforts for thiscomponentwerenot stronglypursued.In onecase,theloan

15. The Region in its comments disputes this fading but on further review IEG fmds the comment still valid.
Reference to the PAD shows that under the Project Description Summary the only reference to credit is within a
parenthesis which sayswith respect to self-targeting "(e.g. wages at local rural minimum . ... and repayment of
credits . ..)" In the section on Project Alternatives it is not mentioned. In the section on Risk it is only mentioned
once in the context, again, of self-selection. Nowhere in the document is there any substantive discussion of the
issues, risks and experiences of managing credit.

                                                          11


recordswerenot evenpassedonto newstaff. TheImpactStudy16foundthatonly7percentof
loanswentto thepooranda similarpercentageto women.However,onesourcesuggeststhat,
while womenmaynot havebeenthenominalborrowers,in practicetheir enterprises(e.g.,
livestock)wereoftentheobjectof theloan.Onereasonfor thelow participationbythepoor,
apartfrom their ownperceivedrisksof indebtedness,wasthatmanyless-poorborrowersdid
notwish to begroupedwith poorborrowerswho theydidnot know andwhomightbea
repaymentrisk.17

Efficacy of Community           Processes

2.17     It is difficult to isolatethe changesthathavebeenbroughtaboutin community
processesby thetwo projectsunderreviewfrom thosethathavecomeaboutbecauseof the
seriesof KDP andotherCDD interventionsin thecountry.`*However,both projects appear
to havecontributedto enhancedcommunitydecisi.on-makingprocesses,but dueto traditional
dominationby theelite,previoustop-downdevelopmentpractices,andwidespread
corruption,muchremainsto bedoneto reachfully equitableparticipation.As notedby EG's
recentevaluationof community-basedand-drivenapproaches,Bankstaff increasinglyare
awareof theneedfor long-termsupportto buildcommunitycapacity.lgIn thiscontext,the
criteriaunderKDP 3for selectingthosecommunitiesthathavereceivedsupportunderKDP 1
and2 is sensibleandwill likely contributesignificantlyto communitycapacityenhancement.
Theevidencefor theenhancedprocessescomesfrom anumberof studiesandthemonitoring
andfrom anecdotalreporting,andamix of inputandoutput/outcomeevidence.It includes:

         l    Increasingnumbersof recordedincidentsof spontaneouscommunitydemandsonthe
              administrationfor performanceandactiononcorruption,someof thisreportedby
             journalists.Thisincludesthereportingof about1,400casesof financialabuse,most
              in casesthatit is generallyagreedwouldneverhavebeenreportedin thepast.

         l    Theuniversalcommunitypracticeof requiringthatsupplierspresenttheirquotations
              to thevillageatpublicmeetings.
         0. Thegreaterinformationthroughprojectsignboards,accessbybeneficiariesto village
              projectrecdrds,andopenaccountabilityreportingmeetings.


16. Kecamatan Development Project Impact Study, 2001. The Demographic Institute, University of Indonesia.

17.The Region does not dispute the rating of this component but asks what would have been the alternative. IEG
suggests that the alternative would have been simply shifting the funds into more grants and leaving income to
arise from the infrastructure alone or just leaving out that component. The global experience is virtually
unanimous on the efficiency and equity problems of pushing credit outside an effective institution in this way and
some of that experience has come from countries where part of the justification at the time was some form of
urgent need.      .

18. The quality of the capacity building effort undertaken in year 1 and 2 for KDP is also a concern since the
project was scaled rapidly. Year 1 covered 3,000 villages rather than the 1,250 anticipated at appraisal and year 2
rose to more than 12,000 villages rather than the 3,000-4,000 included in the original timetable.

19. The Effectiveness of World Bank Support for Community-Based and -Driven Development: An OED
Evaluation, 2005.

                                 12


l AttendanceatKDPmeetingsoftenreachedin therangeof 50to 100whenpast
  meetingsweresaidtohaveincludedonlyahandfulof theelite.

l Evidencefrom theseverallocallevelinstitutionstudiesjointly supportedbythe
  WorldBankandBappenasthatfoundthatoldelitewerebeingreplacedin many
  villagesbymoreprogressiveindividuals.Thiswasassociatedwith thebroader
  decentralizationreforms.
0 Theincreasingnumberof women'sproposalsactuallyfunded.

l Reportsthatwomen'sincreasedrolein KDP decisionshasspilledoverinto other
  communityactivities.

l Theemergenceof participatorymonitoringbycomntunityteamsandevenvillager
  auditsin othervillages.
0 Improvedbookkeeping,management,andmonitoringcapacitiesthroughtraining.

l Communitiesaccessingpilotprogramsin two provincesfor legalaidservices.
l Increasednumbersof meetingsunderKDP recordedathamletlevelwheremuchof
  thesocialcohesionreallylies,asopposedto atvillagelevel(Box 1).

                                                      13


Box 1. Village  Community     Structure  and Functioning

To understandthe challengeof enhancingparticipation of the poor in Indonesiait is important to
understandsomethingof the community stru&ure,which is complicatedandvariesby area.The role of
the Village Head is unclearon many facetsof responsibility.The main community social cohesiveness
actually lies below the village level, at the hamlet level. The electedVillage Head is a government
servant (screenedby the district government)and largely seen to be so by the community. His
accountabilityfor public resourcesis similar to that of highergovernmentlevels,thoughhis (rarelyher)
responsibilities are not always clear. The Village Head,while elected,has almost absolutepower at
village level, but is subordinateto higher-level officials. Becoming a Village Head costs at least
"entertainmentmoney," if not a more direct buying of votes.Leadersat hamlet level areseenasmore
relevantby their community. Thereareothervillage officersaswell (elected,but from amongcandidates
chosenby the Village Head).A LembagaMusyawarahDesa(LMD), a committeecomposedpartly of
village officers, channel community opinions to the Village Head and review proposals.Another
committee, the LembagaKetahananMasyarakatDesa (LKMD), provides a forum for discussionof
developmentpriorities. (Thesearrangementsare changingwith new legislation.)Even Village Heads,
who are ex-officio chairmenof the bodies,often find it difficult to distinguishthe roles of thesetwo
bodies. There are also traditional leaders,often hereditary. Often, the hamlet headsare traditional
leaders but they still have to be approvedby the District Head. There is also village religious
leadership,sometimespowerful. Hamlets haveconsiderablede facto autonomyandmay only consult
the Village Head when they really needto look outsidehamlet issuesor needresourcesthey cannot
raise. SomeVillage Headsarenow openingtheir financial managementto community scrutiny,partly
due to VIPKDP rules on disclosureandpublic notices.Under KDP, consultationsby facilitators on
proposalswere held at both hamlet andvillage level, usually in the presenceof heads.Under KDP,
although in theory an openprocess,in practice Village Headsand facilitators still had considerable
influence over which proposalswere put forward to competewith the other proposalsat the inter-
village kecamatanmeeting.


2.18 : In VIP2, dueto thetypeof questionsin thesurvey,theImpactStudyoffersno
quantitativeevidenceof communityprocesschangesattributableto theproject.However,
missiondiscussionsin thefield andsignedlistsof attendeesandminutesof meetings
confirmedthatprocesseshavehadsignificantparticipation,thoughstill somewhatlimited for
womenandthepoorerhouseholds.Indeed,oneconcernistheamountof timethatthese
processesdemandof beneficiarieswho atthetime of participationhaveno guaranteeof
havingtheir investmentchoiceselected.

2.19    In KDP theImpactStudyattemptedto assesschangesin communityprocessesand
householdwelfae. Thestudyfoundsurveyresponsesweregenerallypositiveandthatthe
relativedifferencesbetweenKDP andnon-KDPprojectswerealsopositive,althoughmodest.
Table1summarizessomekeyfindings,buttheseneedto beinterpretedwith cautionsincethe
studymethodologywasproblematic.2oFirst,thebaselineandfinal surveywereonlyoneyear
apart,givinglittle chanceto discernattributablechanges,particularlyin arapidlyevolving
economiccrisisoverlaidondrought.Second,thesurveysattemptedto comptieISDPwith non-


20 .The Region in its comments alsodraws attention to the deficiencies in thb impact study.

                                                              14


  KDPprojects(innon-KDPareas),,butthereislittle evidenceof whatthesenonXDP projects
  were,in particular,whethertheywereotherdonorprogramsor governmentprogramsfollowing
   asimilarapproach(whichmanybythendid),orwhethertheyweretotallydifferenttypesof
  programs.SomemayevenhavebeenVIP2.In somecasestheywereprivatesectorprograms.
  These"controls"wereselectedbynonKDP communityleadersasbeingthebestprojectsin
  their.communityfor povertyimpact,makingthecomparatorunrepresentativeandsettingahigh
  barfor performance.Third,andperhapsmostimportant,with arandomsamplingof households
   acrossthewholevillage,manyhouseholdsinterviewedwerenot livingin hamletscloseto the
  particularinfrastructurein questionandthereforehadlittle interestin orknowledgeaboutit and
   little reasonto havebeeninvolvedin decisionmaking.21

  Table      1. Selected  KDP Impact     Study Findings
  ...   .... .  .   ____  ._         .__
   Question                                                                                               KDP        Non-
                                                                                                                      KDP
  % households who know of project                                                                         79"        68
  % households actively involved                                                                            45        42
  % households involved in planning                                                                        13*         7
  % households involved in execution                                                                       28*        21
  % households present at meeting about execution                                                          13*         7
  % households giving time for maintenance (note that in KDP little maintenance would be                    9          8
  needed in first year or two)
  % households saying achievement of project good or very good                                             49*        37
  % households saying impact on incomes of poor good or very good                                           71        72
  % households saying empowerment of women good or very good                                                66        64
  % households saying financial transparency good or very good                                             49*        42
  % households agreeing that the selected investment was the highest priority for enhancing                91"        88
  incomes
  Source: KDP Impact Study, 2001, Demographic Institute, Faculty of Economics, University of
   Indonesia. (significant  comparative  differences  = *)


  2.20        With respectto choiceof infrastructure,while assessmentmissiondiscussionswith
  groupsandindividualsatdifferentlocationswithin thevillagefoundbroadacceptancethatthe .
  investmentchosenwasacommunitypriority, therewasalmostcertainlysomedegree'of
  influenceby technicalfacilitatorstowardparticulartypesof investment,suchasroadsand
  bridges,which theyhadtheskillsto support.Yet thesubstantialvalidity of thechoicesmade
. is supportedby thefactthat, in missiondiscussionwith bothsmallgroupsandindividuals,in



  21. Mission observations suggest that the percentage of village households directly affected by aparticular piece of
  projectinfrastructure   probably averages about 20 to 30 percent, although there is clearly a very wide range-in    some
  casesreaching 100 percent. But, for example, with 30 percent of households having good reason to be interested in
  an investment due to proximity, an involvement in planaing of 13percent; asreported in the table, would represent
  about 45 percent of the interested parties, a fairly substantial proportion. However, not having a direct benefit from
  the investment due to location, for example, does not mean a household would not h&e an interest in financial
  transparency or the opportunity cost that might have impacts elsewhere in village development.

                                                         15


themajority of cases,thenext highest priority investmentwasstill roadsandbridges(with the
questionin thiscasenotbeingposedby anengineer).

Efficacy in Reaching the Poor and Women

2.21      In bothprojects,dataonpovertyand.genderimpactarelimited.Table1shows
favorablebeneficiaryassessmentof theimpactonthepoorandwomen-about 70percent
positive-and ahighlevelof supportfor thechoseninvestments,thoughno significant
differenceoverthecomparatorprograms.

2.22      Reaching,the Poor. TheKDP ImpactStudyfoundthatthepoorest20percentof
villageresidentswerejust aslikely to "participate"asricherfamilies,althoughfield
observationby thestaff conductingthestudysuggestedthatthe"participation"of thepoor
tendedto bephysicallaborwhile that of therich tendedto beplanningandimplementation
management.However,this"participation" iscomplicatedby thefact thatasubstantialshare
of laborwaspaid.Themissionmet anumberof poorandwomenwho describedtheir
participationin atleastsomeof themeetings.Theprojectmonitoringevidenceindicatesthat
53percentof thepoorercommunitymembersattendedmeetings.With thepoorin theproject
districtsaveragingapproximately15to 20percent,thissuggestsgoodattendance.However,
thequalityof that attendance,adifficult parameterto measure,is questionable.In particular,
theamountof influenceof thepoorondecisionsmayhave'beenlimited.Theassessment
missionencounteredno casesin eitherprojectwherepoorpeople(judgingpovertyby
appearanceandhousequality)appearedto seriouslydisagreewith theinvestmentpriorities
chosen,althoughin onecasewomenmentionedthatanalternativeinvestmentto theroad
mighthavebeenimprovingtheparallelriver channelandboataccess(theywantedboth).In
thevastmajority of casespoorpeopleseemedenthusiasticabouttheinvestment(s),readily
pointingout directbenefitsto theirhousehold.Theview of bothNGOs andthejournalist
monitorswasthat achievementsof KDP in involvingthepoorwereanimprovementonpast                                     .
interventions,but thatmuchstill neededto bedoneandthatsuchchangesin Indonesiacome
slowly.OneNGO assertedthatmorecouldhavebeendonewith existingcommunitygroups.
Thatsaid,therearesomeinherentlimitationsfor involvingthevulnerablein aprogramthat
negotiatesdecisionsthroughgroupmeetings.However,bettertrainingof facilitatorsmight
haveledto someimprovements(Guggenheim2003).2223




22. "Many of these problems could be overcome with better training for facilitators and a more flexible planning     .
structure that would allow intensive training in small groups. But KDP's design and management structures are
too rigid to allow this on a large scale." Guggenheim, S. 2003. "Community   Development in Times of Transition:
Stories from Indonesia". South East Asia Studies Seminar Program Yale. Center for International and Area
Studies November 19,2003. http://www.yale.edu/agrarianstudies/papers/Crises.pdf     (1O/28/05).

23. The Region in its comments has quoted other recent studies to show that KDP's first stage targeting
performance was pro-poor. IEG does not dispute that there was apro-poor bias in community selection.
However, there is also evidence this could have gone further. In addition, there were few mechanisms applied to
achieving pro-poor selection within communities.

                                                           16


     2.23    Targetingbyvillagein bothprojectscouldhavebeenbetterbut partlywasconstrained
     by politics.Anational kecamatun, preferablyvillage,povertyrankingwouldhavebeenbetter
     but politicallywasunrealistic.More realistically,in KDP, andpossiblyevenin VIP2, abetter
     andearlier-attemptatpovertymappingwithin villagesmighthavehelpedif it couldhavebeen
     fed intothevillageandkecamatan decision-makingprocesses.In bothprojects,aclearer
     povertyreductionstatementin theprojectobjectivesbackedby indicatorsmighthave
     triggeredanearlierandmoreproactivepovertyfocus.Whiletherewassomelaterpoverty
     mappingin KDP, themissiondidnot find muchevidenceof its practicalapplicationin the
     subprojectselectionprocess.

     2.24    In KDP, 71percentof householdsconsideredtheimpactonincomesof thepoorto
     havebeengoodor verygood,but thedifferencefrom thenon-KDPprojectswasnot
     statisticallysignificant." Only7percentof economicloanswent to thepoorerhouseholds,
     indicatingthattheeconomicloanscomponentwasregressivein allocation,althougharguably
     somewhatmoreprogressivein repaymentsincethelowerrepaymentratestendedto bein
     poorerareas.Missionobservationsuggeststhat theinfrastructurewasprobablyneutralor                   *
     modestlyprogressivefor equity,but thedataoffer no supportfor suchaconclusion.                 .

     2.25    Impact on Women. UnderVIP2 thereweremeetingsthatmixedmenandwomen,
     which tendedto suppresswomen'scontributions.Theprojectreactionto limitedwomen's
     involvementwasarguablytoo slow.UnderKDP, asindicatedin Table1,66 percentof
     householdsfelt that theempowermentof womenundertheprojecthadbeengoodor very
     good.However,this wasnot significantlydifferentin statisticaltermsfrom thenon-KDP
     projects.In thethird yeartherewasmoresubstantialaffirmativeaction.Womenweregiven
     separategroupsandthereafteranysecondvillageproposalhadto comefrom thesegroups.
     Themissionobservedthat in both pr6jects anumberof womenin thevillageshadachieved
     increasedparticipationbut, in general,theattitudewas:"if my husbandgoesto themeeting
     why doI needto gotoo.7" Or; alternatively:"I wouldhavelikedto goto themeetingsbut they
     werein the evening,whichconflictswith women'swork athomeor theyweretoo far away,
     whichis aproblemfor us." Sometimeswomensaidthattheyhaddiscussedtheprojectat a
     weeklyKoran-readingmeeting.However,mostlythis seemedto bemorein thenatureof
     informationpassingthanissueresolutionor decision-making.

     Monitoring     and Evaluation and Studies

     2.26    Many aspectsof M&E werequitewell donein both projects, althoughtherewere
     significantweaknessesin measuringpoverty,genderimpact,andcommunityprocesses.In
I    mostcases,monitoringwasstrongerthanevaluation(seepara.2.22).Forprojectssuchas
     thesewith asubstantialelementof processobjectivetherewaslimited evidenceonthe
     advancesmadein communityprocessesandcapacity.In KDP, thestudiesassociatedwith
     M&E wereinnovativeandM&E quiteaggressivelypursuedgovernanceinformation.



     24. Note that non-KDP projects were selected by Village Heads as the best alternative projects.

                                                              17


2.27      In VIP2, the scopeof theindependentmonitoringactivitywasreducedonthegrounds
that it wouldbedifficult to disentangleanyprojectbenefitsfrom thedeterioratingeconomic
 situationandthat,therefore,it wasbetterto spendthemoneyonhelpingmorevillages.A
villageconsumptionsurveywasdropped.It wasarguedthat,with widespreademergency
 assistanceunderway,comparisonsbetweenvillageswouldhavebeendifficult. Whilethis
 argumentisunderstandable,it would seemto applymoreto theevaluationfunctionthanto
themonitoringfunction.Nevertheless,theseriesof management-oriented,quarterlyreportsby
theProjectManagementUnit wereusefulandrepresentedanimprovementoverotherrecent
 CDD projectsassessedby IEG.25

2.28      In KDP, M&E wasinnovative,providinglessonsfor otherBankprogramsin countries
atthis levelof development.Someof themoreinnovativeelementswere:

               Theuseof VillageImplementationTeamsto monitortheirowninfkastructure
               construction26
               Theuseofjournalistsin aninvestigativemodeasoutside,independentmonitors                                 .
               (althoughskillsweresomewhatlacking)
               Theuseof NGOsasoutside,independentmonitors27
               Theuseof villageteamsto pre-auditothervillages'accounts(thevillageteamswere
               reportedto beparticularlytoughoneachother)
               A majoremphasisoncomplaintssystemsto fight reportedcasesof corruption,
               includinglegalassistancefor communitiesthroughanNGO
               Studiescoveringcorruption,impactof communitydevelopmentin conflictareas,
               women'sparticipation,theroleof localgovernment,theroleof facilitators,the
               qualityof infrastructure,theperformanceof microfinance,andasubstantialstudy
               with internationalconsultantsoncommunicationsstrategies.

Theseinnovationsmaynotnavebeenerrectivem preventingleaKageof resourcesand
corruption,howeveratleastin theshortterm.A recentimpactstudyfoundconsiderable
evidenceof theftsof materialinroadprojects(seealsopara.2.39).28.                                  '



25. As an example, the April 2000 report gives a good assessment of the issue of communities having difficulty
obtaining road compaction equipment and also the need for more facilitation training for engineers.

26. Interestingly, villagers did not consider this particularly difficult. One person pointed out that it was easy to    .
do as the accounts were available, the materials delivered could be inspected and watched, and the results could
be readily seen. How much calculation of the relationship between material volumes to finished product was
done was difficult to assess.

27. In nearly all Bank-supported CDD projects in other countries NGOs are used asfacilitators rather than
monitoring agencies. Here, NGOs were used only for monitoring. It was argued that NGOs in Indonesia, given their
history, did not yet have sufficient facilitation skills. This argument was supported by other donors interviewed.

28. A study on monitoring possible corruption (as measured by price versus cost indicators) across different
models of KDP interventions found that increasing grass-roots participation in monitoring village-level KDP
interventions altered the method of possible corruption (it substantially reduced the theft of villagers' wages but
that was almost entirely offset by corresponding increases in theft of materials) but had relatively minimal effects

                                                        18


2.29    NotwithstandinggenerallygoodM&E performance,oneweaknessin theKDP PAD is
in theareaof povertymonitoringatthecommunitylevel. In aproject,atthispoint in aseries
aimedattheruralpoor,onewouldhaveexpectedto seemoreattentionto indicatorsthathave
potentialto demonstratewhichhouseholdsin theselectedcommunitieshaveactually
benefiteddirectlyfrom choseninterventions.Thisisparticularlyimportantsincein many
casesbenefitswereobservedto favorparticularhamletsoverothersyetit wasunclearto the
missionwhetherthesehamletsincludedarelativelyhighershareof thepoorerhouseholdsor a
highershareof theelite.Theindicatorsproposedin thePAD onpovertywerestatedsimplyas
"Susenashouseholdexpendituresurveys"andinevitably,atthat levelof aggregation,thePAD
neededto notethat, "giventhecurrenteconomiccrisis,anypovertychangesmeasuredmay
notreflectKDP results."Someof thisweaknessin povertyindicatorspecificationwas
tighteneduplaterbutthefact remainsthatwe still donotreallyknow howbenefitsat
communitylevelweredistributed.Thiswasthekeypovertyquestionsincetheexantepoverty
distributionacrossselectedkecamatans wasalreadyapproximatelyknownthroughthe
selectionprotocolitself.

EFFICIENCY

2.30    Efficiencyisratedsubstantialfor both projects,butwith reservations,particularlyfor
KDP.Resourceswerenotwell usedintheKDP economicloancomponent,whichreducesthe
efficiencyof resourceusefor thewholeproject.A village-levelcorruptionstudyalsonotesthe
commonproblemof falseborrowergroupsbeingformedto getKDP creditunderthis
component.InternalBankfilesshowthatleakageof resourcesalsooccurredbecauseof                            .
inadequatefinancialcontrolandcorruptioninother components.Efficiencyisassessedbelow
from fourperspectives,includingratesof return,financialcontrolandcorruption.Thisreport
alsohighlightsinformationoncoststo communitiesfor participationin meetingsthoughthis
wasnottakenasa'factorin assessingefficiencyin thisprojectto ensureconsistencywith other
projects.

CostsCompared with %dustry Standards"

2.31     In both projects thereis evidencethatthecostsperunit of constructiononroadswas
lowerthanthestandardgovernment-fundedconstructionby about20to 30percent.More
recentevidencesuggeststhesavingmaybeevenhigher.Someof KDP's costsavingcanno
doubtbeattributedto voluntarylaborcontributions.It is alsounclearhow far thecostof
puttingtheparticipatoryprocessin place,thecostfor facilitationandstaff, whichwas
substantial,wasreflectedin therateof returncalculations.




on the overall level of possible corruption. Monitoring Corruption Evidencejkom a Field Experience in
Indonesia. Benjam     Ai Olken 2004.

                                                           19


  Economic Rate of Return Analysis

  2.32     TheICR for VIP2 estimatestheeconomicrateof returri(ERR)from theinf?astructure
  benefitsto beover30percent.Someof thedatafor theanalysiscomesfrom theImpactand
  AnalysisStudyof July2000preparedby theProjectManagementUnit. Themethodologyfor
  thiscalculation,providedin Annex3of theICR, isweaksinceit ranksbenefitsinqualitative
  termssuchas"good," "fair," and"poor" andgivesacommunity-estimatedannualfinancial
  benefitrange.It isnot clearthatcommunitiessurveyedhadtheknowledgeor skillsto makesuch
  estimates,evenwithin arange.2gIn theeconomicanalysisfor roads,theaveragecommodity
  transportpricereductionestimatedfor the1999/2000villageswas40percent.Thiswasdueto a
  shift fromtwo- andthree-wheelvehiclesto four-wheelvehiclesandall-weatheraccessibility.
 Basedonmissionfieldobservationandafew informaltraffic countsatroadsandbridges
 visited,thisseemsplausible.No rateof returnestimatewasattemptedfor otherinfrastructure.

 2.33      TheICR for KDP reportsanaggregatefinancialrateof returnof 20.3percentafterthe
 inclusionof overheadcostsfor technicalassistanceandfacilitation.Excludingthese
' overheads,theERRSfor individualtypesof infrastructurerangefrom 83percentfor water
 supplydownto 14.8percentfor irrigationanddrainage.Roads,themostwidelyrequested
  infrastructuretype,hadanERR of 32.8percent.

 2.34      However,thereis aproblemwith theERRmethodology:it wasbasedonasampleof                                        .
  casestudiesin which,dueto qualityof thedatacollection,only17percentof thecasessurveyed
 yieldedusabledata.Thisraisesthepossibilityof samplebias.However,themainconcerniswith
 themethodologyfor aggregation.TheERRwasbasedonaggregationof thedifferent
 infrastructuretypesthathadyieldedacceptablesurveydata.Butthesewerealsopredominantly
 theonesgivingthehigherrateof return,inparticular,watersupplyandbridges.Thus,therewas
 asubstantialupwardbias.Thecorrectapproachwouldhavebeento aggregatebythe
 infrastructuretypein proportionto theshareof thoseinfrastructuretypesactuallyprovidedby
 theproject.Becauseof lackof theoriginalworkingsheetsit hasnotbeenpossibleto recalculate
 theeconomicrateof returnonthatbasis.

 2.35      However,counterbalancingthis finding,therealsoappearto begoodreasonsto adjust
 theERRupwards(Box2). First,theassessmentmissionfoundwidespreadincreasesin land
 values`associatedwith theinfrastructureinvestments,particularlyroadsandbridges.30Second,
 in theeconomicanalysisreportedin theICR, anumberof quitelargearbitraryreductions

 29. For example, in one village visited by the mission a new road seemed to have substantial benefits to the
 cultivated land of a particular hamlet and was valued highly by those questioned. On examination, however, the
 calculation was not straightforward. There was an alternative, longer but seasonally less passable route. The
 mission believes that, in this case, it would have taken very careful questioning and analysis to get even
 somewhat close to a reasonably accurate net benefit stream estimate.

 30. Having ascertained what was there before the project investment, the question asked of landowners was: 1.
 What is the estimated value of this land of yours today? 2. If, tonight, this road/bridge etc. suddenly disappeared
 and went back to what it was before the project fmanced construction (e.g., the earlier footpath/footbridge/poor
road, etc.) what would your land be worth tomorrow? Then an attempt was made to estimate, through
questioning, the total land area benefited in this way.

                                                       20


weremadeto seeminglyvalidbenefitestimates,whichhadnorealbasisin thesurvey
evidenceobtained.Forexample,in onecasetime savingsreportedby respondentswere
reducedto 10percentof their estimatefor no goodreasonotherthanthattheyseemed,on
examination,to behigh.31

Box 2. An Example of High Benefits

An extreme example of high economic benefits was encounteredin a village visited in Kalimantan
where a project-funded low footbridge across a large lagoon had cost Rp83 million but it was
estimated to have increasedplantation land values on the other side from Rp400,OOOper acre to
Rp2,000,000.Conservatively,taking 50 percentof that incrementasattributableandapplying it to the
total of about 1,000 acresof land, a cost benefit ratio of about 1 to 10 results. This excludesany
valuation of lost lives crossingthe lagoonin small dugoutcanoesthat seemsto have averagedalmost
onelife per year.It also excludesthe lost labor from farmerssometimeshaving to leaveplots early on
accountof weatherthat wasthreateningto a lagoon crossingto returnhome. Most casesassessedhad
much lower benefitsthanthis, but many still appearedsubstantial.


Cost Recovery

2.36     UnlikemanyotherBank-financedCDD projectsglobally,in both projects noattempt
wasmadeto pursuehighlevelsof costrecoverythroughprojectrulesotherthanin the
economicloanscomponentof KDP. High levelsof communitycontributionwereencouraged,
but it wasvoluntary.Communitieswereadvisedthat,if theycontributedsubstantially,they
wouldbeableto completelargerinfrastructureinvestmentsandthatthelevelof community
contributionwouldprobablybeafactorconsideredin thekecamatan inter-villagedecision
meetingswhencompetingproposalswereacceptedorrejected.In theend,localcontribution
in KDP cameto approximately17percentof thetotal infrastructureinvestment,althoughthis
excludesanyundervaluationof laborsupplied.UnderVIP2 localcontributionwasabout7
percentandBappenascontrolledthewagepaidandsetit at about80percentof theminimum
wage.But underKDP, communitieswerefreeto settheir ownlaborrates.Theywereadvised
to setlaborratesbelowthecompetinglocalwageratesin orderto bettertargetthepoor.In
mostcases,communitieschoseto setratesfairly closeto thelocalgoingrateand
consequentlyhadto adoptsomeform of rationingsystem.Suchacommunitydecision
presentedacomplexdecisionmatrix for householdsrelatedto employmentvolumeand
potentialbenefitsof thealternativeinfrastructuresunderconsideration.Usuallytherationing
took theform of sharingoutthenumberof daysof work betweenall applicantsby household
but in somecasespovertycriteriawereapplied.

2.37     Theassessmentmissionconcludedthat in bothprojectstheBatik andBorrowerhad
giventoomuchemphasisto ahands-offapproachatcommunitylevel.Costrecovery,land
compensation,technicalinfrastructurestandards,andwageratesfor povertytargetingareall
areasthatwarrantedsomewhatmoredirectinterventionto challengethe systemandthestatus


31. Just before this report was completed, fLrther economic analysis evidence was submitted by Bank operational .
staff which seems to confinn substantial ERRs. However, it was not possible for IEG to check the methodology.  .

           .                                              21


 quo.However,moretechnicalandmanagementinterventionononesideraisestherisk of
political interventionontheother.


 Costs to Communities          of Participatory.Approaches

2.38      Dataareinsufficientto factorintotheERRthecostto communitiesof time givento
meetingsandfreeor cheaplaborsuppliedandthis hasnotbeenapart of economicanalysisof
projectsin,thepast.However,for both projects villagersmetby themissionmadeafew
commentsthatsuggestedtheburdenhadsometimesbeenheavyrelativeto thelevelof
benefits.An attemptwasmadein onevillageto estimatethetime costs(seeBox 3).32


Box 3. Costs of Household        Time   in a KDP Village     (Ula-ata   Village, North   Lampung,    Sumatra)

For an active participant, who took an economic loan, there were five decision meetings and a
Verification Teammeeting.Two of the decisionmeetingsweretwo-hourmeetingsandtook onehour of
travel.Threeof themeetingswerefour-hourmeetingsandwerefurtheraway,taking two hoursof travel.
The Verification Team meeting was a whole day plus one hour of travel (nine hourstotal). Thus, the
total time was 33 hoursor aboutfour working days.At a minimum wage in plantationsin this areaof
Rp21,OOOper day,the opportunitycostwas Rp84,OOO.The total time from initiation of the discussions
to receipt of grants/loanswas one year and four months. Thus, for an averageeconomic loan size of
Rp350,OOOthis personwas spendingabout25 percentof the value of the economicloan in meetings
with that investmentnot paying off in termsof receipt of the money for over a year.However,thereis
also a probability factor. Since KDP funding was competitive, therewas a significant chanceof not
receiving benefits at all. In this. kecamatan,18 of 42 KDP proposalswere acceptedin the year in
question.Thus, the probability of not getting any reward in this casewas about 0.4. Applied to the
economicloan size (Rp350,OOO* 0.4 = 140,000)this suggestsan opportunitycost in terms of time of
about60 percentof the loan size @p84,000/Rp140,000).However,therewould be other gainson the
positive side. Someof the time given would have gainedrespectandposition in the community. Some
may havecontributedto otherinfrastructurebenefitsrelevantto the participant'shamlet.Also, therewas
a probability of not having to repay the loan at all. (in this particular village loan repaymentswere
between80 percentand 100 percent,well abovethe project average.)However, it is concludedthat,
overall, the costs of full participation were substantial. This probably worked against the full
participationof thepoorerhouseholdswho couldleastafford to givetime atrisk of no benefits;


Governance and Audit

2.39      Corruptionis animportantaspectof efficiency.Both projects focusedonminimizing
corruptionthroughtransparencyin theuseof funds,includingpublicnoticeboardsin villages
to displayplannedandactualexpenditures,aCodeof Ethicsfor field engineers,andin KDP,
theuseof journalistsandNGOs (28provincialNGOs).As with otheraspectsof theprojects,
theapproachevolvedandKDP attemptedto improvethemechanismsdevelopedunderVIP


32. To give an idea of the potential load of meetings that separate project meetings can impose, one village
visited in West Java had 22 operating projects this year on its community notice board to be considered and
discussed. None were as large as a KDP, and some were small government programs (as small as two free sewing
machines), but most still required some form of village decision-making.

                                                           22


by introducingmoresystematicdisclosuremethods,greaterparticipation,andmore
transparency.As notedabove,villageauditteamswereusedto monitorfiduciaryaspects.The
first VIP wasthefirst projectin Indonesiato publicizeplannedandactualexpendituresat
communitylevelonnoticeboards.VIP2developedaCodeof Ethicsfor field engineers.Five
werefired in 1999.Communityleaderswho misappropriatedfundswerechargedandhadto
returnthefundsto thecommunity.ThegovernmentAudit Bureauaudited30to 35percentof
villagesannually.A ComplaintsBureaufollowedupall complaintsandprovidedasystemfor
anonymousreportingfrom thevillagelevel,with, it is claimed,aguaranteedfollow-up of all
complaints.In KDP, asurveyof 500villagessuggestedthattheprogramhadbeenrelatively
successfulwith nomalfeasancereportedin .89percentof villagesonJavaand77percentof
villageson Sumatra,a significantachievementin acountryusuallyrankedaboutthird in
globalcorruption.33Auditssuggestthat about0.5percentof total grantfundswerediverted.
However,thereremainsmuchto bedonein this directiondueto theinertiaof thepast,the
still corruptandlethargiccourtsystem,andpolicebribery.34A recentimpactstudyfoundthat
grassrootsparticipationhasnotreducedtheoverallamountof corruptionin KDPbut merely
alteredits nature(footnote28).Anotherrecentstudynotedthreemajorchallengesin reducing
corruption.First, officialsresistdisclosureof financialandotherinformationevenafter
successiveKDP cycles.Second,theprojectlacksgoodtoolsfor informationdissemination.
Thesignboardsthatpostinformationabouttheprogramseitherhavetoomuchor too little and
meetingslist projectachievementsratherthanpromotingdialogue.Teachingpeoplehow to
useinformationthattheynow haveis alessonthattheon-goingKDP 3 isworking on.Third,
Indonesianjudicial systemremainsunwilling andis not setupto receiveor acton complaints
againstgovernmentofficials.35y36Thisassessmentfoundin internalBankfiles andin the
literaturealargenumberof referencesto continuedcorruptionin KDP. Thatsaid,giventhe
startingpoint andthegovernanceenvironment,progressin termsof developinganti-
corruptionstrategieshasbeenpromising(Box 5) andit isprobablethatovertimethese
strategieswill startshowingeffectiveresults.37

33. Local Level Institutions Study 2000. World Bank/Bappenas Research Paper Series.

34. One villager is reported to have said: "Why would Ireport to the police about my stolen chicken? I would
have to bribe them with a pig to take any action!"

35. Ubudehe and the Kecamatan Development Projects Case Study and Comparative Analysis. Master of Arts in
Law and Diplomacy Thesis Tufts University 2004.

36. Official complaint channels have proved to be of little use and complaints to authorities have not provided an
effective corruption sanction. In all but one case, if money was returned it was because the community groups
and adat leadership acted. Police investigations also failed to pursue charges successfully, with one exception
(when a Darwin award- winning village chief who had pocketed village funds tied himself up in plaited banana
fiber rope, pretended to have been robbed, and called the police himself, who, sensing something extraordinarily
amiss when the banana rope virtually dissolved at their touch, arrested him and made him return the funds).
When pursuit of official corruption happens, sanctions are nearly always the outcome of villager and consultant
appeals to higher-level officials, like bupatis, or the outcome of World Bank supervision follow-up, and are not
due to a functioning, accessible system of legal redress. (PAD KDP 2, pg. 104)

37. The Region in its comments notes that follow-up audits found total suspected corruption rates below 1.5%.
The.Region also notes that KDP's cost-effectiveness -- 30.50% less than contractor built projects fully taking into
account community contributions -- would not be feasible with high corruption rates. The particular audit report
quoted by the Region is not available to IEG. IHowever IEG notes that another audit report commissioned by the

                                                           23


   2.40     Thoughtherewassomecorruptionin bothprojects,in thecaseof theVIP2 theICR
   claimsthatwheneverinstancesof corruptionwereidentifiedmeasuresweretakenagainst
   offenders.However,internalBankfilesincludenumerousreferencesto its continued
   existencein theKDP. It hasbeenarguedthatbecauseKDP madeamoresystematicattemptto
   dealwith theproblemit reportedmorecasesof corruption.38However,theimpactstudy
   quotedaboveshowsthattherehasbeenno changein theoveralllevelof corruption.Further,
   KDP hadaspecificgoalto promotetransparency,accountabilityandgovernance,muchmore
   thantheearlierVIP, and*henceshouldbeheldto thatstandard.


  INSTITUTIONAL         DEVELOPMENT

  2.41      Institutionaldevelopmentisratedsubstantialfor both projects. Threeareasof
  institutionaldevelopmentarediscussedhere:thecommunityprocessesandskills,government
l


  processesandskills,andthedecentralizationlinkagesbetweencommunityandgovernment.
  Again,thetwo projectslie onacontinuumof learningandprogressin institutional
  development.

  Community Processesand Skills

  2.42      With respectto the sustainabilityof communityprocesses,both projects,but
  particularlythemoreevolvedandmorerecentKDP, appearto havecontributedto advancesin
  participatorycommunitydecisions,thoughevidenceis limited (seepara.2.26).Theprocesses
 , outlinedin Box 4, includingtheearlierprocessesunderVIP2,werelargelynewto
   communities.Particularlyimportant,anddifferentfrom manyotherBank-supportedCDD
  projects,theinvestmentsandprocesseswerenot simplytemporarychangesinvolvinga single
  investment,theywererepeatedovertwo or threeyears-in somecasesmore-and many
  villagesarelikely to bepickedupagaineitherunderKDP3or undersomeothersimilar
   governmentor donor-fundedprogram.Therefore,theseprocesseswill bereinforcedand
  refinedto thepointwheretheywill becomenormalcommunitydecisionprocedures.3gAs
  notedin para.2.17,IEG's CBDKDD evaluationnotedthattheBankhashadmuchmore


  Bank highlighted that project documentation was incomplete and noted that this indicated a lack of monitoring
  control over the project's activities progress and output because of which it was difficult for the reviewers to
  confin-m whether the project work plan had been performed properly and effectively. The expressed serious
  concern about record keeping raises doubt about the reliability of the above-referred corruption rate. On the
  second point, IEG notes that the study quoted in footnote 29 found evidence of hidden corruption in over-
  invoiced materials procured for the project.

  38. "Better controls and detection will bring to surface more casesof corruption. As communities come to trust
  the project they will complain more, and demand more action. This must be anticipated and accepted as a part of
  the price that must be paid for creating a cleaner, more efficient system." (Anti-Corruption  Guide: Developing an
  Anti-Corruption   Program for Reducing Fiduciary Risk in New Projects Lessons from Indonesia. The World Bank
  Office Jakarta. March l&2003,      pg. 9)

  39. This is different from the experience in Turkey under the Eastern Anatolia Watersheds Project where a
  proposed follow-on project was to shift to new villages and new areas giving no period of consolidation for the
  processes only so recently established.

                                                      24


successwith enhancingcommunitycapacityin thosecaseswhereit hasprovidedsustained
support.However,thefluid decentralizationreform processandtheassociatedpolitical
maneuveringstill leavesubstantialuncertaintiesaboutsustainabilityof theseprocesses.It will
beinterestingto seehow theseprocessesadaptandrespondin Acehvillagesimpactedby the
recenttsunami.Thiswill beonetestof resilience.


Box 4. The Elements      of the KDP Consultative     Process at Community       Level

1. First Inter-village Meeting to introduceproject
2. First Village Meeting to introduceproject
3. GroupandHamlet Meetings to discussneedsandproposals
4. Specialwomen's groupmeetingsto discussneedsandproposals
5. SecondVillage Meeting .todecidevillage proposalsto put forward
6. Preparationof village andwomen's proposalsbut without detaileddesignor budgets
7. Feasibility/verification visits, including feedback to villagers by facilitators and technical
    specialists
8. SecondInter-village Meeting to rankvillage projects
9. Preparationof designsandbudgetswith technicalconsultants
10. Third Inter-village Meeting to selectprojectson basisof designsandbudgets
11. Third Village Meeting to discuss results of project selection and to form village teams for
    implementation
12. Preparationfor implementation,e.g.,recruiting labor,proceedingwith procurement
13. Releaseof funds
14. Implementationandmonitoring by community
15. Village meetingto accountfor fundsusedto date
16. Cross-villagevisits, reporting
17. Village meetingto handover finished works andaccountfor all funds
18. MaintenanceCommittee initiates work andmaintenancefund collection

Government Processes and Skills .and Decentralization                Linkages to Community          Support

2.43    Both projects largelybypassedthedistrictgovernmentwith respectto processesand
skillsdevelopment,althoughtheydidinvolvethesub-districtlevel.Did thismatter?Therehas
beenagradualreductionin theadministrativeauthorityandbudgetarysharefromthecenterand
provincesandacorrespondingincreasein thedistricts.However,theprocesshasbeenunsteady
with somereversalsandswingsandthereisstill considerableuncertaintyasthenewgovernment
policiesbecomeapparent.4oThreedonorswhohavebeeninvolvedwith decentralizationoffered
theassessmentmissiondifferingjudgmentsaboutbypassingdistricts.Onewasambivalent,one
believed,althoughnotverystrongly,thattheBankprobablyshouldhavedoneabit morein
KDPto accommodatetheunfoldingdecentralizationatthetime, andonesaidthatatthattimeit
wastoo earlyin thedecentralizationprocessto connectusefullywith districts.Thedecisionsby
bothBankandBorroweratthetimeneedto beinterpretedin thelight of thesevereand
unexpectedeconomiccrisisof thelate1990sandtheneedto channelfundingto thepoorin rural


40. Currently there are suggestions of some swing back toward greater provincial power in some areas. But it
remains to be seen where the new government will take this issue.  '

                                                  25


 areasrapidly.Thatsaid,thisisanissuethatcouldprobablybeansweredbetterin thecontextof
theforthcomingIEGcountryassistanceevaluation.

Box 5. Strategy to Deal with Corruption in the KDP

KDP's anti-corruptionstrategyhasthreemain themes:(i) eliminate complexity; (ii) shinebright lights
on everyfinancial transaction;(iii) respondquickly to complaints.

Eliminate complexity - Becausemoney goesstraightfrom the national level to the village accounts,
thereare almost noneof the delaysor leakagesnormal to designsthat stepfunds down throughinter-
governmentaltransfers.KDP has also simplified all of the stepsinvolved in financial management
and disbursementso that many kinds of stakeholderscan easily understandandusethem. No charges
areallowed other thanthose listed on the forms, and MoF ratification included notesto auditorsthat
no financial reporting or license documentswere to be used other than those negotiatedwith the
project. All of the basicformats attachedto the appraisalreport arethe sameasthoseusedin the field.

Shine.a bright light - Transparencylies at the coreof KDP's anti-corruptionwork, andit takesplace
in three main areas.First, a broad range of materials and-proceduresensure that all financial
information is both public and publicly displayed within the villages. For example, local shopping
price quotationsfor materials must be readout loud in public meetingsto be valid; signboardsposted
aroundthe villages statematerial andlabor unit costs; and all bookkeepingis managedby an elected
"implementation committee." Unlike standardpractice, thereisn't a single format in KDP that would
allow a lone official to withdraw or transferfunds: all require at leastthree signatures,including one
from an electedvillager anda secondfrom the project facilitator.
Second,KDP involves a broadrangeof entirely independentgroupswhosejob is to inspectKDP sites
for signsof irregularity. Thesegroupshavefull accessto KDP documents.The provincial NGOs also
have monthly meetingswith the consultantand governmentmanagementteamsto list the problems
they encounterandreview proposedcorrectiveactions.

Third, the governmentmanagementgrouphastakenmany stepsto ensurenational-leveltransparency.
KDP is the first World Bank-supportedproject in Indonesia to send its audit summariesto civil
society oversight groups.Contract provisions and follow-up letters for the NGO monitors provide
them with full discretion to shareall findings, and the independentjournalist contractsspecify that
thereis no prior review.

Respond to complaints - The last major elementin the strategyis to follow-up on reportedcasesof
corruption-and to be seento be following up on corruptionby the villagers andother stakeholders.
KDP has severalchannelsfor villagers to complain, including a well-used national "complaints box,"
the addressof which is printed on all village graphicalmaterials. At the provincial level, reportsby
field staff, villagers, and the monitors are logged in, reportedto local governmentand the national
team, andthenpursuedeverytwo weeksuntil resolved.In severaldistricts andprovinces,increasingly
active project coordinationteams also pursuecorruption problems. In some extremecasesthey have
removed abusiveVillage Headsand camats(e.g.,North Sumatra,SouthKalimantan) and succeeded
                                                       I
in getting missing funds restored. More common than restoring funds is fixing infrastructure of
inferior quality, andproject files documentseveralcaseswherecorrectiveaction planswereproposed
and implemented. Approximately 5 percentof the technical assistancestaff have also beenreplaced
becauseof corruptionor letting corruptionhappenwithout reporting it.      .
Source:Appraisal Document for KDP2

                                             26


2.44     Thecontinuedcorruptiondespitetheprojectdesign'semphasisonaccountability,
transparencyandgovernanceis alsoanaspectof institutionaldevelopment.Thoughthe
projectincorporatedseveralinnovativestrategiesto dealwith corruption(Box 5), successin
controllingleakageof resourcesappearsto havebeenlimited.

The Community Facilitators

2.45     KDP hashadlargenumbersof project-fundedfacilitators,about30,000overthefull
projectperiod.Wasthis efficientandsustainable?Whatwerethealternatives?Theyappearto
havedoneagenerallygoodjob in mobilizingcommunitiesandin subprojectdesign,although
therewereweakperformerswhohadto beweededout andafew who werecorrupt.Initially,
theywerepredominantlyengineersbut latermorefacilitationskillsweresought.Anecdotal
evidencesuggeststhat`somewereextraordinarilydedicated.It wasprobablynecessaryto have
substantialcommunitysupportin theearlyperiodof participation.However,theBorroweris
lookingnow in thenextphaseto try to reducethis cost.

2.46     Whilecostly,theoptimallevelandtypeof supportneededremainsunclear,andthe
missiondidnot havetheresourcesor datato fully analyzethealternatives.First, if      '
governmentstaff areusedtheyneedto becostedat full salaryandbenefitsallowingfor the
difficulty of retrenchmentwhendemandfalls.TheBankhashadnegativeexperienceof
encouraginggovernmentsinto excessivestaffinglevelsfrom whichborrowersfind it difficult
to escapewhendemandfalls. Second,thealternativeof NGOswasnot arealisticoptionatthe
time dueto lackof sufficientnumbersandskills,but thismayincreasinglybeanoption.
However,hereNGO managementoverheadsstartto playarole. Third,simplyusingexisting
governmentstaffwasnot anoptiononasufficientscaledueto skillsandlackof spare
capacity.Nevertheless,loweringborrowercostsisimportantandwarrantsthorough
exploration.In future,anoptionisto givecommunitieswide choicesatdifferentcostsand
intensityfor themto decide.

2.47    Whetherengineersencourageroadsandbridgesor socialscientistsencourageschools
thatwould not havebeenacommunities'neutralchoiceis difficult to prove.It wouldbe
surprisingif it didnot happenandin afew casesit wasobservedbyprojectmanagement.But
all facilitatorswill havetheirbiases.Thevastmajorityof beneficiariesappearto havewanted
roadsandbridgesasevidencedby thefactthatwhenaskednowwhat theirnextpriority is
theynearlyalwaysindicateanotherroador bridgebutin adifferentlocation.Reduced
paymentfor labormayinfluencethesechoicesin futurebut theequityimpactof thatis case-
specificandhardto assess.




2.48    Sustainabilityof both projects isratednon-evaluablegiventhefluid natureof the
reforms,uncertaintyaboutthefuturerolesof theFinancialManagementUnits, and
maintenanceconcerns.Fiveaspectsof sustainabilityareconsideredhere:thephysical
sustainabilityof theinvestments,thesustainabilityof thecommunityprocesses,the
relationshipbetweenthoseprocessesandgovernmentresourceallocation,thesustainabilityof

                                                              27


  anyenhancedcapacityof communitymembers,andenvironmentalsustainability.Bank
  safeguardsarealsocovered.

  Sustainability       of Physical Infrastructure

  2.49      Projectmonitoringfor both projects showsarateof infrastructuredeteriorationthat
  theICRs suggestisnormal for investmentssuchasroads.Whilethereis sometruth in this,in
  fact, goodmaintenancecankeeparoad,particularlyaroadthathasnotbeenpavedwith
  asphalt(whichmakescommunitymaintenancedifficult), in goodconditionfor manyyears.It
  is still too earlyto assessKDP, but thefactthatafterfive yearsVIP2 monitoringreportsfind
  thatnearlyone-thirdof villagesonJavaandabouttwo-thirdsonSumatrahadnotbeen
  maintainedadequatelysuggestthereis asustainabilityissue.Maintenancealsohas
  implicationsfor thecalculationof ratesof return.It is not clearhow far thehigher
  maintenancecostsorthelowerreturnsbecauseof lackof maintenancewerefactoredin the
  calculationsof ratesof retum.41

  2.50      Further,atpresentsubprojectsare"handedover"to thecommunitiesandthereisno
  formalrecognitionfromthelocalgovernments.Thislimits thecommunities'rightsto legally
  requestmaintenancesupportTomthegovernments.Theassessmentmissionobservedthat
  communitiesgenerallytreatmaintenanceasaninvestmentthatisputoff aslongaspossibleand
  is allocatedonlyenoughfundsto keeptheinfrastructurejust functional.Fore&rnple,anumber
  of roads.visitedhadbeenmaintainedto ensurethattheywerepassableto trucksbutthey
  remainedin ratherpoorcondition,atleastin somepoorlydrainedpatches.Whilebridgesvisited
  generallyappearedto havesoundsupportingstructure,thespansurfaceitselfwasofteneither
  precarious42or surfacedwith solidconcretefor whichthestructurewasnotoriginallydesigned
. (aweightissue).Technicalqualityof subprojectshasalsobeenaconcernasis evidentfrom a
  reviewof internalBankreports.43




  41. A recent Bank economic impact analysis found that the biggest problem observed with post-construction .
 maintenance arrangements in the KDP project was that very little serious thought was given to the high repair
  costs that arise periodically asnatural wear-and-tear begins to take its.toll. Costs of repairs for roads and water
  systems are also significantly underestimated. Even where fees are collected for water usage they were barely
 enough to provide part-time honorariums for appointed village workers, let alone cover the purchase of tools,
 sections of replacement pipe spare parts or other high cost items. Further benefits, accruing to road projects drop
 noticeably in certain areas when normal vehicles like "angkots" (small mini buses) and passenger cars no longer
 use them due to erosion damage and accessis limited to trucks only.

 42. For example, a swinging suspension bridge in one village had been built some 30 feet above a river about six
 years ago. At the time of construction, the bridge had fixed wood transverse slats, but it now simply has split
 baniboo of variable thickness laid transversely mostly without attachment, and two planks of wood, also
 unattached, laid longitudinally.  Foot traffic and motorcycles loaded with bags of rice pass across this bridge-so   .
 far, apparently without accident.

 43. The Region in its comments provides evidence on the physical quality of KDP and VIP infrastructure.
 According to the Region arecent review that sampled 382 villages in 191 districts found that 69.58 of the
 infrastructure was built with at least "sufficient)' quality.

                                                           28


2.51     IEGconcludesthattheapproachto maintenanceneedsabroaderfocus.Theissuein the
villagesappearsto havelessto dowith whetherthecommunitywill beableto maintaina
particularpieceof project-financedinfrastructureandmoreto dowith whatcapacitythe
communityhasto maintainall thevillageinfrastructureandhowthatwill beorganizedand
funded?It appearsthat,underbothprojects,thetotalcapacityof thecommunityto maintainits
full complementof currentassetswasnotafactorthatenteredmuchintothevillageor
kecamatandecisionstopropose.oragreeto theconstructionof newinf?astructure.It shouldbe;

Sustainability of Community Processesand SkillsDevelopment
2.52     Thefactthattheseriesof VIP andKDP projectsthemselvesbuilt on earlierprograms
andhaveworkedwith thesamecommunitiesispromisingfor thesustainabilityof processes.
Manyhouseholdsin manyvillageshavenowbecomeat leastpartly awareof theirpowerand
at leastsomecanbeexpectedto work to sustainthat.A numberof communitiesunderthe                                      -
projectdemonstratednewfoundactivism.Anotherhopefulsignisthat governmentprograms
at district levelappearto beadoptingtheKDP model.Nevertheless,giventhestill limited
progressin truly givingvoiceto thepoorandwomen,thegainsareprecariousandcouldbe
disruptedbyreversionsin decentralization,or excessivepoliticizationatvillageand
kecamatanlevels.

2.53     Both projectsprovidedsomeskillstrainingfor selectedindividualsalthoughlargely
to facilitators.More broadly,theyprovidedpracticalexperiencein participatoryapproachesto
significantnumbersof villagers,for example,in thework of implementationcommittees.
More trainingin bookkeepingandmaintenanceandotherskillsmighthavebeenprovided;
thiswaspartly addressedunderKDP2andmoresuchtrainingisplannedunderKDP3.

Sustainability of GovernmentProcessesand Community/Government Linkages

2.54     Without doubtgreaterdistrictinvolvementor capacitybuildingmighthavebeen
desirableatanearlierstage.However,it isdifficult to saywhetherthebypassingof thedistrict
levelandthegovernmentmachineryin generalwasappropriateatthetime.Regardless,the
importanceof thedistrict governmentshavingafinancialstakein theprojectto ensure
sustainabilitywasrealizedearlyonandKDP 2 includedaMatchingGrantschemewhereby
participatingdistrictswereto beencouragedto usetheir ownfinancialresourcesto increase
the scopeof KDP.45



44. For example, in one village a 3kilometer     stretch of road constructed under VIP2 was in very poor condition
over one low-lying portion (and in only fair condition in the other sections). But this particular village had about
45 kilometers of various hamlet feeder roads within the village'boundary, and this was a relatively poor village.
The challenge for this village was not how to maintain the VIP2 length of road but how to maintain everything
with rather modest financial resources.

45. In the Matching Grant scheme district governments would agree voluntarily to provide block grant funds to
cover additional kecamatan not covered by the project. In return they would receive additional no-cost technical
assistance in the form of training and facilitation through KDP project consultants.

                                                          29


Environmental         Sustainability

2.55      Neitherprojecthadanyobviousnegativeimpactsontheenvironment.Acrossafairly
substantialsampleof roadsvisitednomajorerosionordrainageor otherproblemswereevident,
althoughsomeneededwork onroadsidedrainagewithin thevillagehousingareaand,in one
case,waterdamageto aroadwasdueto lackof water-flowplanningandprofilingthatwould
haveneededsubstantiallandacquisitionor easementrightsto address.Waterschemesvisited
appearedto havenomajorenvironmentalproblems.Drainagework appearedto havehada
positiveimpactinthefew sitesvisited;althoughatonesite,asfor someroads,it appearedtobe
morein thenatureof delayedmaintenancethananincrementalcapitalinvestment.

BANKPERFORMANCE

2.56     Bankperformancein both projects wassatisfactory andwascharacterizedby good
learning,continualtestingof creativesolutions,andastrongfocusondevelopingastrategyfor
handlingcorruption.However,ascorruptionremainsasignificantproblemintheprojectthough
itsnatureappearsto havechanged,theBankwoulddowell to commissionanexternal
assessmentto reportonthemagnitudeandseriousnessof theproblem.Theinterestsof Bankand
borrowerbothcouldperhapshavebeenbetterservedby anearlyreviewof fiduciarycompliance.
Thiswouldhaveprovidedanopportunityfor tightening/improvingthecontrolmechanisms
beforetheprojectwasscaledup.                      .

2.57     Further,thedesignof theobjectivesandassociatedindicatorsinbothprojectswerenot
well formulated.Objectiveswerearatherconfusedmix of physical,institutional,poverty,and
growthobjectiveswith nologicalhierarchyor signalsontrade-offsandnoshort-versuslonger-
termdifferentiation.Also,povertytargetingcouldhavebeentackledmoreaggressively.
Althoughtherewasnoviolationof safeguards,bothprojectswereweak.oncleardocumentation.
In VIP2 thiswasastraightforwardrefinementof theearliersuccessfulfirst VIP. Commendably,
theBankandBorrowerretainedthesimplicity,althoughtheBankcouldhavebeenmore
proactiveto improveparticipationbythepoorandwomen.A QualityAssuranceGroup(QAG)
reviewat entryratedtheVIP2-projectSatisfactorqP6andfoundseveralaspectsthatmeriteda
"bestpractice"designation.47With respectto KDP, preparationandappraisalexhibited
weaknessin acceptingtheeconomicloancomponent.Evenatthetime,Bankexperiencewith
creditandcommunitymicrofinanceprojectsovertwo decadesshouldhavemadeit clearthatthe
componentwasunlikelyto succeed.Theprojectfilesshowthatconcernsaboutthiscomponent
wereraisedby someof thepeerreviewers.However,thereweredifferentviewswithin the
regionandgovernmentstronglypushedfor thecomponent.

46. The ICR incorrectly states that it was rated Highly Satisfactory by QAG.

47. QAG identified the strengths as: sound ongoing learning, good participation, well-conceived design, strong
government commitment and leadership in design, and excellent supervision. Weaknessesnoted were: targeting
of the poorest in particular the omission of villages in eastern Indonesia, the extent of participation, particularly
with respect to the predominant roads sub-projects, replicability, in particular whether the strong government
support could be replicated, occasional design weakness, some concerns about sustainability and maintenance,
and monitoring and evaluation.

                                                            30


2.58      Thelow numberof formalrecordedsupervisionmissionsis aconcernfor Bank
managementfeedback,but giventhedecentralizationof Banksupervisionwith theCountry
Directorin thefield,andreportedcontinuousinteractionwith theborrower,it isprobablynota
goodoverallmeasureof supervisionquality.However,theICR itselfnotesaweaknessin the
ProjectStatusReports(PSRs),whichthis assessmentconfirmsandwhich,for theBankasa
whole,hasbeennotedbeforeby IEG. ThePSRsareof verylimitedvalue.Whatis notnoted
in theICR, but emergedduringdiscussionsin field, is theextremelylimited feedbackfrom
managersonPSRs,givingstaff little incentiveto performin this area.However,in thiscase,
theperformanceof supervisionis still assessedassatisfactory.In general,problemswere
solvedpromptly and,in manycases,verycreatively.TheBankteamsinvolvedwith both
projectshadunusuallydeepexperienceandknowledgeof theIndonesiansituationandallkey
staff memberswerebasedin thefield office.Therewasgoodstaff continuityfrom theearlier
VIP projectsto thelaterKDP projects.

Bank Safeguards

2.59      In both projects, somefarmingorhousinglandhadbeentakenmainly for footpath
androadwidening.In nearlyall casesthelossof landwasnot morethanabouta3-meterstrip,
basedonfield observation.Themajorityof affectedpeoplespokento didnotmind loosing
this landandwereappreciativeof thebenefitstheroadprovided.However,somedid appear
to beat leastsomewhatunhappyandafew, it wasunderstood,hadprotestedquitevigorously
atthetime. In theVIP2EngineeringConsultantQuarterlyReports,issueswith asset
compensationarelistedwith ahighfrequencyin field engineersreportingof problems.
However,nosolutionsarediscussed.

2.60      In both projects, theguidanceoncompensationin theappraisalreportsis confusing.
It wasnotedthattraditionalprocessesof compensationwould oftenbeused.But the
documentspresentaconfusingmix of descriptionof whatdoeshappenandprescriptionof
what shouldhappen.Thereis evidencethattheBanklawyershadsomeconcernaboutwhat
wasproposedatappraisal.Theappraisalreportfor VIP2 statesthatthearrangementswere
consistentwith Bankguidelinesthatrequirethatnegativelyaffectedfamilieshavetheir
standardof living improvedor at leastrestored.

2.61      Theguidancein theappraisalreportsdoesnot makethecompensationrulesclearto
theaffectedpeopleorto facilitators,becauseit doesnot clearlyaddressthefollowing issues:48.


48. Similar weaknessescarry through into the KDP3 Annex 13 Guidelines. For example, they refer to "affected"
persons but do not define who is an "affected" person. They allow "other acceptable inkind compensation" but do
not make clear who it must be acceptable to. It allows what appear to be certain key elements of procedure to be
waived if less than 20 percent of land is lost, but this waiver seemsto include the facilitator discussing compensation
preferences with affected persons. This leaves the process entirely in the hands of the LKMD/BPD,       who have an
interest to press through tiastructure  proposals. For these%elow 20 percent" cases,i.e., nearly all cases,it appears
that UPK documentation can be largely dispensed with. Overall, the process seems to be open for a lot of community
pressure on affected persons. The dilemma here is that clarity is likely to result in a "no, one compensated or all
compensated" situation. Pressure is not easy to avoid without substantial outside interference in local processes.

                                                        31
     .


          l    Thedocumentsaysvillagersmayvoluntarilycontributeland.But if alandowner
               doesnotcontributevoluntarilywhathappens?Theprojectcannotpayfor land("the
               villagegrantcannotbeusedto paycompensation")andthevillage,it isbelievedin
               all cases,madeclearalsowithin thecommunitythattheydidnothavethefunds
               either.Sowhathappensif avillagerdoesnotwishto voluntarilycontribute?
               TheKDP appraisaldocument(Annex14,p 62)saysthatif lessthan20percentof a
               household'slandisaffected,thefacilitatorneednot"confirm requestsand
              preferencesfor compensation"(thisis statedin para.5,whichaccordingto the
               Annexlanguagemaybedispensedwith if lessthan20percentisimpacted).Thisis
               notclear.
               Themaintext of theVIP2appraisalsays,"wherelandexceedsfor example20%of a
               villager'splottheaffectedvillagerwill getreplacementland."Thewords"for
               example"appearto offer anescapefrom theguidancesetout.
              Para4.24in theVIP2appraisalseemsto describewhatvillagersnormallydorather
              thanbeingastatementof whatisrequired. Forexample,"Villagegroupsagreeto
               assisttheownerinmovinghis.house."Thisdoesnot seemto setanyclearguidance
               for whatwill bedonein aparticularproject-fundedcase.

2.62      Whilecompensationfor lostlandis acomplicatedissue-sinceif onehouseholdis
compensated,all arelikelyto requestcompensation-nevertheless,therulesintheappraisal
documentsareunclear.Themissionbelievesthattheactualpracticewasto makeit clearto
communitiesandto allaffectedhousehol'dsupfrontthat,sinceneithertheprojectnorthevillage
hadanyfundsfor compensation,thosewhowereto loselandhadthechoiceof eithergoing
alongwith voluntarycontributionorcondemningthevillageto notparticipatingin theproject
for thatcomponent,makingfor alot of pressure,particularlyonpoorerhouseholds.Indeed,the
word "sacrifice"wasusedinthefieldduringdiscussionof thisissue.4gNevertheless,it is
repeatedherethatthevastmajorityof affectedpersonsinterviewedregardedthemeterortwo of
lostlandasof little consequenceandnocaseswereencounteredwhereahouseholdcame
anywherenearto beingworseoff, thereforetheBankSafeguardonResettlementwascomplied
with, aswereall othersafeguards.

BURROWERPERFORMANCE

2.63      Initially, thenationalplanningagency,Bappenas,wasresponsiblefor project
implementation.Dueto governmentchanges,KDP laterfell undertheCommunity
DevelopmentAgency(PMD) of theMinistry of HomeAffairs. Bothweregenerallyproactive
andperformedwell. A coordinatinggroup(NationalManagementConsultants)did agoodjob
of coordinatingthelargenumberof KDP consultants.Therewasalsoaninter-ministerial
coordinationcommittee.



49. Although no minimum contribution was required by the project, villagers contributions to infkastructure
averaged 7 percent of the grants in VIP2 and 17 percent in KDP. In KDP fifty percent of this was the land
contributed by those villagers who lost land. The rest was cash or fi-ee labor and materials.

                                                        32


2.64     BorrowerperformanceisratedSatisfactory for both projects. Whilemanyof the
weaknessesoutlinedareattributableatleastpartlyto theBorrower,allowancemustbemadefor
theexceptionallydifficult countryoperatingcircumstancesfor bothprojects?'Apartfrom the
problemwith corruptionandwith economicloanrepaymentin KDP, acomponentthatwas
pushedstronglyby government,physicalinfrastructuretargetswereexceeded.Community
processgainsweresignificantbutwith weaknessesintargetingandquestionsabouttheimpact
onwomenandthepoor.In KDP delaysin thereleaseof funds,whichbecamemoreseriousin
thelateryears;affectedwork efficiencyandquality.Thesedelaysapparentlywerenot for
financial/budgetaryreasonsandweremoreproceduralandadministrativeproblems.



3        Main Findings and Lessons
  l




31       Theoutcomeof VIP2 isratedSatisfactory andtheoutcomeof KDP israted
Moderately     Satisfactory. Bothmorethanachievedtheir outputtargetsfor infrastructure,.
thoughthegreaterphysicalachievementsin KDP weremadepossiblein partbecauseof the
supplementarycreditwhich addedabout25percentto theloan(para.1.7).Basedonmission
observationandlimitedsurveyevidence,this infrastructurehadwidelydistributedbenefits,
mainlyfor input supplyandmarketingthroughenhancedaccessto landplotsandpublic
transportservicesassociatedwith roadsandbridges(paras.2.6,2.14,2.22, andBox 2). Both
projectsalsocontributedto enhancedparticipatoryprocesses(para.2.17).

32        Significantshortcomingsin theKDP projectwarranttheModeratelySatisfactory
rating.First,theKDP loanscomponent(aboutaquarterof theproject)wasnot successful
(para.2.16).Thisisthemostimportantelementinholdingtheratingat onlyModerately
Satisfactory.Second,despitedeterminedeffort, progressin drawingpoorerhouseholdsand
womeninto decision-makingappearsto havebeenmodest,thoughthedataarelimited (para.
2.21-2.25).Thiswaspartlydueto theinherentdifficulty of changingentrenchedsocial
relationshipsandpartlydueto the"minimal intervention"approachleavingcommunities,
alongwith their existinginequities,wide freedomto makedecisionswithout outside
interference.Most of theseweaknesseshavebeenaddressedin the follow-onKDP2 and
KDP3projects,whichdemonstratesBankandborrowerlearning,althoughthechangesto
accommodateimprovedgenderfocusaremoreevidentthanvillage-levelprocesschangesto
improvethevoiceof thepoorerhouseholds.Third,with respectto whetherthepoorest
kecamatanwerereached,thedatafor selectedkecamatanandvillagessuggestthat selection
ruleswere sometimesbentfor politicalreasons(para.2.10).Fourth,corruptioncontinuesto be
widespreadandpersistent(paras.2.17,2.30). Giventhattheprojecthadbeenspecifically


50. In KDP 26 private companies and NGOs provided national and field consultants, 28 NGOs provided
provincial monitoring, .l journalist organization coordinated many individual journalists, 2 training companies, 1
communications company, 1institute handled impact evaluation, and 2 printing companies. A total of about
34,600 consultants and facilitators required training. (Some of this training has carried over from KDP2 into
KDP3. In one observed casethis was being done on a largely voluntary (unpaid) basis on the part of both trainers
and trainees.

                                             33


designedto promoteaccountability,institutionaltransparencyandimprovedgovernance,this
wasaseriousshortcoming.

33     Bothprojectsoffer usefullessonsfor Bank-financedCDD. However,thelessonsneed
to beinterpretedwith somecautionsincetheKDP evolvedfrom theearlierVIPsandother
antecedentsandis inextricablyentwinedwith socialandpolitical changesin Indonesia.

       l  A project'spovertyobjectivesneedtobetranslatedintoclearlydefinedpovertyand
          povertyprocessindicators(outcomeandoutput)in thePAD andbemonitoredand
          evaluated.

       l  Theextentof projectmanagementinterventionatcommunitylevelneedsto support
          targetsfor achievingpovertyandgenderobjectives.Toomuchof ahands-off
          approachbyprojectmanagementatthecommunitylevelonissuesof povertyand
          gendermayinsufficientlychallengethestatusquo.

       l  Maintenanceof infrastructureshouldbeanintegralpartof anyinfrastructure
          constructionintervention.A maintenancestrategyshouldbedevelopedthat
          addressesthetotalcommunityinfrastructurechallengenotsimplythatof theproject
          portions.Theassessedfeasibilityof sustainingmaintenanceatthecommunitylevel
        . shouldbereflectedbackintoinvestmentdecisionsonthefundingof new
          infrastructure.

      l   Thecostsof beneficiaryparticipationneedtobereducedasthenumberof programs
          increases.Fosteringacommonparticipatorydecisionprocedurefor alldonorand
          government-fundedparticipatoryprojectsandprogramswouldreducebeneficiary
          time spentin meetings,enhanceprioritization,andreducecostsof facilitationand
          technicalsupport.

      l   Theruralfinancelessonsof thepastarewell-documentedandremainvalidbutwere
          notheededinKDP. Effectiveandsustainableruralfinancecallsfor aninstitutional
          capacityto evaluatedebtcapacity,asustainableinstitutionalhome,low costs,and
          strongincentivesfor theborrower(s)to remainin goodstanding.In KDP it wasa
          mistaketo forceaneconomicloanscomponentintoagrantsprogramoutsidea
        * carefullypreparedruralfinanceinterventionThereisnoexperiencethatsuggests
                                                                     .
          that,in acrisissituation,theserulesarelessapplicable.

      l   In aproj.ectthatspecificallyaimstopromotetransparency,accountabilityand
          improvedgovernance,it isessentialto defineattheoutsetsomekind of baseline
          (andrelatedmilestones)regardingthelevelof corruption,soasto measureprogress.


                                                    35


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 SECOND VILLAGE          INFRASTRUCTURE        PROJECT


 Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)

                                     Appraisal                Actual   or                Actual   as percent  of
                                      Estimate                 current estimate          Appraisal   estimate

  Total    project costs              159.60                   138.00                    86

  Credit    amount                    137.80                   119.2051                  87

 Project Dates

                                       Original                           Actual

  Initiating   memorandum                                                 1Z/08/95
  Board     Approval                                                      1O/l Of96

  Effectiveness                        01115/97                           03/05/97

  Closing    date                      12/31/99                           07131 I2000

 Staff Inputs (staff weeks)

                                 Actual   Weeks                        Actual   US$OOO

  .Preappraisal                  12                                    58,000

  Appraisal/Negotiations         6                                     30,000

  Supervision*                   55                                    282,000

  Completion*"                   3                                     10,000

. Total                          76                                    380,000




 51. There were loan cancellations totaling US$20.9 million due to government decisions to reduce debt and
 substitute with own funds.

                                                          36



Mission       Data

                                 Date        No. of        Specialization                  Performance   rating
                            (mon Wyear)     Persons         represented"            Implementation     Development
                                                                                         Status         objectives
Identification/Preparation      2/l 996                        Engineers                                      HS
                                                               Economist
                                                             Anthropologist
                                                           Financial Officer
                                                         Public Administration
                                                             Project Officer
                                                               GOI Team:
                                                    Tatag Wiranto, Bappenas VIP
                                                    Manager, Administration
                                                    Richard Gnaagey, Bappenas
                                                    VIP Consultant Team Leader,
                                                    Eng. Yudi, Bappenas
                                                    consultant, Stebven Burgess,
                                                    Bappenas   Cons.

                                                    World Bank team:
                                                    Frida Johansen, TTL,
                                                    Economist Jacques Tollie,
                                                    Engineer   Scott Guggenheim,
                                                    Anthropolog   Yogana Prasta,
                                                    Disbursements
Appraisal/Negotiation          07/I  996       2               Engineers                                      HS
                              (Appraisal)
                                                1              Economist
                                                1            Anthropologist
                                                1          Financial Officer
                                                1        Public Administration
                                                1            Project Officer
                                                      GOI, Bappenas core team:
                                                      Wiranto,  Gnagey, Burgess
                                                        World Bank core team:
                                                       Johansen,    Guggenheim,
                                                             Tollie, Prasta
Appraisal/Negotiation        August 1996        7            As above, plus                                   HS
                             (Negotiations)
                                                1   Karin Nordlander,   Bank lawyer
                                                1      H. Haerunman,    Bappenas
                                                                 Deputy
Supervision                     3/l  997        1           Economist, TM                   S                  S
Supervision                                     1            Anthropologist
Supervision                                     2     Engineers   (Tollie, Lantran,
                                                                  Bank)
Supervision                     7/l  997        1              Economist
Supervision                                     1            Anthropologist
Supervision                     Ill1997         1            Economist, TM
Supervision                     2/l  998        1            Economist, TM
Supervision                    6-811998         3      Engineers    (Unger, Bank;
                                                    Gnagey+Nugraha,       Bappenas)
                                                             Economist, TM
                                                1
Supervision                     1O/l 998        1          Engineer "Unger)                 S                  S
                                                1      Anthropologist   (Agrawal)
                                                1            Economist, TM
Supervision                    I-311  999       1            Economist/TM                   S
                                                2    Engineers    (Scouller, Unger)
Supervision                     7/l  999        1          Engineer (Unger)
                                                1            Economist, TM
Supervision                     1O/l 999        1           Economist, TTL
Supervision                     12/i 999        1         Engineer (Scouller)
Supervision                    01/2000          1          Engineer   (Unger)   .
                                                1           Economist, TTL
Completion                     01/2000          1           Economist, TTL                  S

                                                                                                            37


KECAMATANDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

Key Project Data (Amounts in US$million)

                                                                 Appraisal                                                Actual        or        .                                    Actual        as percent         of

Y----.U".Y-Y.-UU-_.Y.".-.."-"-.,.-""",.--,-"..,_..,."..--.U..U...,..e*.,p*.s.,.,-..,........`..-.......-."na*
                                                                 Estimate                        ..."*Y-.._-."Y._-UI..U.."...-..""..--*,."~-~-----..-.,.-"--.."-.""*-"..-."*.----."..UI..l.-.l..-.-,-.-,.-"..--"".-~-.~.~--"--~-*
                                                                                                        .                 current        estimate                                      Appraisal            estimate       L      ..

 Total project costs                                             273.00                                                  -309.80                                                       113
 Credit amount                                                   225.00                                                   252.90                                                       112

Project Dates

                                                                    Original                                                                Actual

 Initiating memorandum                                                                                                                      06127197
 Board Approval                .                                                                                                            06/02/98
 Effectiveness                                                      07/30/98                                                        .       08/25/98
 Closing date                                                       09/30/2002                                                              12/31/2003                                                 .                          4

Staff Inputs (staff weeks)

                                                           Actual      Weeks                                                            Actual      US$OOO

 Preappraisal                                              30                                                                           90,000
 Appraisal/Negotiations                     ,              2                                                                             10,000       '
 Supervision*                                              100                                                                          300,000

 Completion**                                              3                                                                            6,000
 Total                                                     135                                                                          406,000

                                                      38


Mission Data

                                  Date         No. of     Special&a       tioq             Performance   rating
                             (month/year)     Persons      iepresen     ted'        implementation     Development
                                                                                         Status         objectives
Identification/Preparation      9/l/1997          9         Economist (I),
                                                          anthropologist    (I),
                                                       Engineer (I), Planner
                                                       (2) Disbursement        (I),
                                                       Financial Specialist (I),
                                                           Environment      (2)
Appraisal/Negotiation          3/I 5/ 1998        5       Anthropologist     (I),
                                                            Economist (I ),
                                                       DisbursementIprocurem
                                                          ent (I), lawyer (I),
                                                              Engineer (1)
Supervision                    1O/l 5/l 998       8          4 Economists                   S                 HS
                                                         I Irrigation Engineer
                                                                 2 NGO
                                                                1 Gender
Supervision                    I Oil 8/l 999      5        1 Monitoring    and              U                 HS
                                                               Evaluation
                                                          I Engineering     and
                                                                Gender
                                                        1 Poverty Economist
                                                        I Rural Development
                                                           1 Country Officer
Supervision                    5/20/2000          5    I TTL, Social Scientist              S                 HS
                                                        1 Rural Development
                                                         I Gender Specialist
                                                              I Economist
                                                           I Environmental
                                                                Specialist
Supervision                     5/20/2000         I         Task Manager                    S                 HS
Completion                      4/l /2003         2        1 Anthropologist                 S                 HS
                                                       I Institutions specialist

