Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3453 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Kecamatan Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 31, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3453 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 4330-IND 
dated June 26, 1998, between the Borrower and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Project), requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Bank  agreed to the Borrower’s request and extended a Loan in the 
amount of $225,000,000 under the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; 
and
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of  the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution 
No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 
1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; 
and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods 
produced in,  or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision 
of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of 
the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Loan Agreement, 
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Loan Agreement" means the 
agreement dated June 26, 1998, between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as 
amended by the letters of amendment dated October 26, 1998, December 29, 1999, and May 
12, 2000, and the amending letter of even date herewith, and such term includes the 
"General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency 
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended through December 2, 1997, as 
applied to such Loan Agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty seven million eight hundred and ten thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 37,810,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of a Grant or a Sub-loan made under Part A of the Project to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
Page  3
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
including, in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2011, and ending December 1, 2035. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2020, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 3.01, 3.02, 
and 4.01 of the Loan Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 to the Loan 
Agreement are incorporated in this Agreement with the following modifications to said 
Sections and to Schedules 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
the term "Bank" shall be read as "Association";
(ii)
the term "Loan" shall be read as "Credit";
(iii)
the term "Loan Account" shall be read as "Credit Account"; and
(iv)
the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the Development Credit 
Agreement".
(b)
As long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise by the 
Association:
(i)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank pursuant 
to any of the Sections of, and Schedules to, the Loan Agreement 
enumerated in paragraph (a) of this Section, as well as 
pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement,  shall be 
deemed to be 
taken or given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank 
and the 
Association; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the 
Bank pursuant to the provisions of the Sections of, and Schedules 
to, the Loan Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the 
Association.
Section 3.02 For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
Page  5
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the letter of amendment to the Loan 
Agreement shall have been executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. If the Loan Agreement terminates prior to the termination of this 
Agreement, the provisions of the Loan Agreement referred to in this Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect between the Borrower and the Association. 
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget 
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
(21) 381 2859
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ A. Anshari Ritonga, 
Director General of Budget, MoF
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Vikram Nerhu, Acting Country Director
Authorized Representative
