                                                                                                       51462
                         KECAMATAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT*

I.     Abstract

The World Bank­aided Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) is a community-based
project, initiated by the Government of Indonesia, to alleviate rural poverty levels. The
distinctive feature of the project is its highly decentralized nature, which devolves
decision-making down to the villagers themselves. A kecamatan, or council, is an
administrative unit made up of multiple villages. Villagers are empowered to exercise full
control over their developmental decisions--from identification of their needs to
implementation of the project. The project also focuses on gender equality and
encourages women to participate in planning and decision-making activities.

The first phase of the project was completed by the Government of Indonesia in
September 2002. Infrastructure projects for roads, bridges, water supply systems, and
school repairs were executed in more than 21,000 villages in about 1,000 kecamatans
throughout the country. The Indonesian Department of Home Affairs is currently in
charge of the implementation of the next phase, KDP-II.

However, high levels of corruption have been reported in relation to the release of funds
and the procurement of materials. With loan repayment rates as low as 50­60 percent, the
financial sustainability of the project also remains an issue to be addressed. In addition,
the project requires a more responsive technical support structure if the objectives set
forth in terms of procurement, financial management, and project quality are to be
achieved.


II.    Background

The Kecamatan Development Project (KDP) is a community-based, demand-driven
project, launched in 1998 amid economic crises and political turmoil in Indonesia.
Corruption was widespread, and little funding meant for poverty alleviation actually
reached the villages. In order to rebuild its credibility among the masses and to reduce
poverty levels, the Government of Indonesian supported the formation and initiation of
the project. The project targets the poorest subdistricts in the country, and provides extra
allocations to the eastern island subdistricts hit hardest by the El Niño phenomenon.

Under the project, villagers are encouraged to voice their needs for infrastructure projects
or small-scale economic activities in the form of proposals submitted to the kecamatan.
Decisions on planning, procurement, and management of funds are made by the villagers.
Project planning begins in hamlets, a social unit below the village, and ends in the
kecamatan, which contains an average of 20­25 villages and approximately 100,000
people. A group existing for more than a year is eligible to make a proposal. Two


*
 This case study was prepared by a team comprising Prof. Deepti Bhatnagar and Ankita Dewan at the Indian Institute
of Management (Ahmedabad) and Magüi Moreno Torres and Parameeta Kanungo at the World Bank (Washington
DC).


                                                                                                                     1
                                               Empowerment Case Studies: Kecamatan Development Project


proposals are selected for implementation every year, one of them belonging to a
women's group.

Proposals for public goods are eligible for grants, and proposals for economic projects
qualify for loans. Project funds are allocated directly to subdistrict councils, which
allocate money among these proposals. Funds flow from a central project account to a
joint village account at a local subdistrict bank, and are processed by the branch office at
the National Treasury. In this way, funds do not pass through the hands of government
officials. The funds are in the form of annual block grants (of Rs 500­750 million or
US$60,665­$90,997), distributed to the villages over a three-year period. Kecamatans
that have a minimum population size qualify for receiving the funds. The project is
supported by IBRD loans and IDA credits of US$590 million.1

One of the focal areas of the project is the promotion of gender equality. Women are
encouraged to participate actively at every stage of planning and implementation. One
man and one woman are selected as village facilitators, and women make up at least 40
percent of the members of the Kecamatan decisionmaking body.

A tiered system of technical and social facilitators recruited from the private sector,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and the villagers themselves aid in recognition
of needs, project writing, and planning. In addition, adequate support is provided for
village management of procurement, finances, and project implementation.

Transparency is the key principle behind the workings of KDP. Project information, other
than contract and bidding documents, is publicly displayed on notice boards within
villages and kecamatans. The responsibility for decisionmaking rests on the villagers,
who have complete control of the initiation and completion of the project. KDP differs
from the traditional village infrastructure projects, in which villages had to make a choice
from a menu of listed infrastructure activities.

KDP-I was completed in September 2002, and KDP-II has since been initiated, with the
goals of supporting participatory planning and development planning in villages,
promoting gender equality, developing a broad program of independent monitoring and
assessment, and providing new forms of government services for the poor. The current
project incorporates both KDP I and the Urban Poverty Project.


III. Impact/Results

KDP has achieved national scope, because it covers more than 30 percent of the rural
kecamatans in the country. In its third year (2002), the project covers more than 21,000
villages in about 1,000 kecamatans in most of the provinces of Indonesia. Approximately
75 percent of the funds has been used for village-level infrastructure, such as roads,
bridges, water supply systems, and school repairs, while the remaining 25 percent has
been lent out to village group members for working capital, on a revolving fund basis.

1
  IBRD (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) and IDA (international Development Agency) are
the two main lending components of the World Bank Group.


                                                                                                                2
                                                Empowerment Case Studies: Kecamatan Development Project


Under the second project, KDP-II, it is estimated that the total beneficiary population will
be close to 20­30 million people, with 200 kecamatans added each year, and 15,000
villages covered across the country.

Other notable benefits of the project have been in the form of greater ownership by
participating communities, improved local planning and project implementation, and
better use of public resources, because they are invested according to the needs and
priorities of the villagers.

Most of the projects have had liberating effects on the villages, by aiding in the reduction
of time and effort expenditures. For instance, in the North Sulawesi village of Indonesia,
villagers used to travel on foot to their fields, using winding jungle paths. The
construction of a gravel road has enabled these villagers to commute in vehicles, thereby
reducing their travel time and improving their efficiency levels. Another example is a 3-
kilometer water pipeline constructed through the dense forest and up the steep sides of a
volcano to a water source. The pipeline brings fresh water to the villages, and women no
longer have to make the daily hike up the mountain.

Since all decisions are made and activities are implemented in a transparent manner,
villagers have become more conscious of their rights, and now demand directness and
transparency in other developmental activities carried out in the villages. Confidence
levels have increased among the villagers, since they no longer depend on intermediaries
or NGOs to voice their concerns or demands.

There also have been substantial poverty reduction benefits from the project. The share of
loan beneficiaries perceived to be poorer members of the communities is 78 percent, of
which 38 percent are women. After the completion of the first year, 500,000 women were
reported to have participated in the project.2


IV. Key Elements of Empowerment

Information

The key objective of the project is to ensure transparency and democracy in its
operations. Villagers remain at the center of the project, from inception to
implementation. All transactions are carried out in public, and information is
disseminated by way of notice boards, posters, radio programs, and signboards. In
addition, the private sector facilitators trained by KDP keep the villagers informed on
project principles and activities in coordination with informal local leaders.




2
 Source: "Institutionalizing a Gender Perspective," in Advancing Gender Equality: World Bank Action since Beijing,
World Bank, 2000. Available at: <http://www.worldbank.org/gender/beijing5/specialreport/perspective.pdf>.


                                                                                                                     3
                                      Empowerment Case Studies: Kecamatan Development Project


Inclusion/Participation

Participation at the grassroots level has been the focal point of the project, and is
sustained by the demands and needs voiced by the villagers in their meetings.
Implementation is broadly participatory, particularly for infrastructure projects. Work is
organized by local implementation teams, using voluntary village labor. In some of the
infrastructure projects, such as in the Sulawesi village, villagers themselves have
constructed roads, and have contributed capital to make the road longer than it was
initially proposed.

Women are encouraged to participate in the planning and implementation stages. Of the
two facilitators selected, one is a woman; and out of the two proposals selected every
year, one is from a women's group.


Accountability

The implementation and enforcement mechanisms of the project have both empowered
villagers by keeping them informed at every stage of the project, and have helped them to
enforce the accountability of the implementation teams.

For instance, the major factor contributing to the accountability of the operations is
information dissemination. Publicly accessible information and regular updates from
facilitators improve operational transparency. This transparency gives the villagers a fair
chance to voice their concerns in case of inconsistencies noticed at any stage of the
project.

In addition, NGOs and mass media perform continual, independent monitoring.
According to available information, 450 articles have been published on KDP. Local
newspapers maintain a complaints database. A network of facilitators, elected from the
villagers, continually carries out supervision work.


Local Organizational Capacity

Organization has been successful at the village, kecamatan, and national levels. Decisions
on the identification of common needs, formation of committees, procurement, and
related areas have been made in regular meetings of the villagers. Villagers have also
organized to contribute their labor to many of the projects.


V.   Issues and Lessons

Challenges

According to the "Anti-Corruption Guide for New Projects," presented in the Poverty
Reduction and Economic Management (PREM) conference in Washington (June 24­25,
2002), corruption levels have been rampant during many stages of the KDP project. The


                                                                                              4
                                       Empowerment Case Studies: Kecamatan Development Project


prime cause of this corruption was identified as the large-scale, decentralized, and local
nature of the project, which is difficult to control from the center. Although
anticorruption measures are being implemented in the project design and activities, high
levels of corruption have been noted in such areas as the release of funds and the
procurement of materials. A medium level of corruption has been reported in the
management of loan amounts.

Another difficulty faced by the project was capturing the interest and technical support of
multisectoral ministries in the participating kecamatans. The lack of interest from these
ministries has reduced the project options available for implementation. In addition, the
majority of the projects fall into the category of "village infrastructure" because of
familiarity with the earlier Village Infrastructure Project (VIP). There have been few
proposals for social infrastructure projects, such as schools or health clinics.

Financial sustainability has been a controversial issue for the KDP program. Although the
credit provided under the program has been extremely popular among the communities,
the evidence points to a negative return for KDP in terms of the microcredit scheme. On
average, repayment rates vary from 50 to 60 percent across the country. In addition,
criteria for the allocation of funds have been difficult to adhere to, and technical and legal
advice for small-scale projects has been almost negligible.


Key Factors for Success

Some of the key lessons derived from the project can be summarized as follows.

1. Prioritization and Sustainability of Key Objectives

The fundamental objective of the program is to establish transparency and democracy in
the implementation of demand-driven community projects, and to follow a bottom-up
approach at every stage. The program is likely to be sustainable if people continue to
voice their opinions and hold government accountable. Before adopting the KDP model,
sufficient thought needs to be given to prioritizing the objectives of transparency and
participation, and to examining whether these objectives can be achieved and sustained.

2. Pre-Implementation Planning and Successful Roll-Out

The success of the project can be partially attributed to the short time lag between the
initiation and the completion of the subprojects. During the first year of KDP, a four- to-
six-month facilitation process led to project selection, the transfer of funds to the village
account, and implementation in the following three to four months. The "direct deposit"
nature of the funding scheme was a major contributor to the speed of the subproject
rollout.

While the main focus of the program is successful service delivery to the poor, there still
needs to be a responsive technical support structure to ensure the quality of community
structures. The new project (KDP-II) places greater emphasis than previous projects on
developing local technical capacities for design, management, and maintenance.


                                                                                                5
                                   Empowerment Case Studies: Kecamatan Development Project


VI. Further Information: References and World Wide Web Resources

HTS Development Limited. URL:
<http://www.htsdevelopment.com/projects/projects.shtml>.

The World Bank Group: "Inclusion...listens to all voices, Kecamatan Development
Project Indonesia." URL: <http://www.worldbank.org/faces/id/>.

The World Bank Group, Social Policy and Governance in the East Asia and Pacific
Region. "Activities in Indonesia, Indonesia--Kecamatan Development Program." URL:
<http://www.worldbank.org/eapsocial/countries/indon/INDPRO%7E1p7.htm#_Toc4316
52504>.

The World Bank Group. "Kecamatan Development Project." URL:
<http://216.239.53.100/search?q=cache:fP9q4dzcxlQC:lnweb18.worldbank.org/eap/eap.n
sf/Attachments/KDP/%24File/kdphandout.pdf>.

Edstrom, Judith. 2002. "Indonesia's Kecamatan Development Project: Is it Replicable?
Design Considerations in Community Driven Development." Social Development
Papers, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development. Paper No. 39, March.
URL:
<http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/Networks/ESSD/icdb.nsf/D4856F112E805DF4852566
C9007C27A6/06931C8241EE037585256B990053B84A/$FILE/SDP-39.pdf>.

The World Bank Group. "An Anti-Corruption Project Guide for New Projects." URL:
<http://www1.worldbank.org/publicsector/PREMweek/AnticorruptionGuide.ppt>.

The World Bank Group. 1999. "Managing the Social Consequences of Economic
Crises." For discussion at Workshop on Social Policy Principles and The Social
Development Agenda, Pocantico Conference Center of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund,
December 3-5. URL:
<http://wbln0018.worldbank.org/essd/essd.nsf/0c6fe70e858d400f85256833006e7d1f/945
026ab652b3d7e8525686d00622a01?OpenDocument>.

The World Bank Group. "FACTSHEET: World Bank Financial Support to East Asia
since July 1997." URL:
<http://www.worldbank.org/html/extdr/offrep/eap/facts/facts.htm>.

The World Bank Group. "Institutionalizing a Gender Perspective." URL:
<http://216.239.51.100/search?q=cache:yZBEsOSa7_cC:www.worldbank.org/gender/bei
jing5/specialreport/perspective.pdf+Examples+of+Kecamatan+Development+Project+Im
plementation&hl=en&ie=UTF-8>. See also:
<http://www.worldbank.org/gender/beijing5/specialreport/perspective.pdf>.




                                                                                        6
