Report No. PIC790
Project Name                   Kenya-National Agricultural Research     rc N
Project - Phase II (NARP II)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Research
Project ID                     KEPA1354
Implementing Agency            Government of Kenya (GOK)
Ministry of Research, Technical Training
and Technology
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
(KARI)
Contact: Director KARI
Tel: 2-2-444029
Fax: 4-2-440771
Update Prepared                February 1996
Projected Board Date           January 28, 1997
1.   Project Objectives:   The key objective of the ongoing National
Agricultural Research Project (NARP I) is to ensure that the adequate
technology will become available to Kenya's farmers in order to
significantly increase agricultural growth, to provide incremental
employment in agriculture and to conserve the productive potential of
the natural resource base. The framework for NARP II will be based on
the national priority statement as set forth in the NARP II preparation
documents, recent agreements between KARI and bilateral donors for
continued support in selected priority areas of research, and the
principles embodies in a regional 'Framework for Action' on agricultural
research reform and collaboration. The project would build on the
achievements under NARP I and continue the 'residual donor approach' of
the first phase which means that the IDA-assisted component would
support those elements that are essential to make the National Program
the 'whole' and balanced effort that most effectively contributes to
development in agriculture, including resource conservation. Project
preparation and appraisal would therefore involve a joint-donor/GOK
effort aimed at evaluating the entire national program.
2.   The overall goal of NARP II would be to help GOK effectively
implement the second phase of its agricultural research development plan
and to further strengthen donor coordination. The proposed project
would especially support better research planning and priority setting,
management reform, pluralism in agricultural research, more dependable
financing of research operating costs and closer client linkages. The
project would also aim to improve coherence, quality, relevance, and
accountability for results of priority agricultural research programs.
3.   Project Description:   The IDA-assisted project would comprise
assistance for: (i) strengthening of KARI organization and management
especially at the Regional Research Centers (RRCs), including provision
of equipment, staff training and technical assistance (local and
expatriate) for capacity building in research planning and management,
budgeting and information systems; (ii) rehabilitation and provision of



equipment and operating funds to RRCs responsible for adaptive research,
including the establishment of capacity for soil fertility analysis and
advice; and (iii) support to key national crop, livestock and
disciplinary research centers and programs. IDA would provide financing
for non-salary operating costs, station rehabilitation, vehicles,
equipment, strengthening of research information and reporting systems,
staff training and consultancy services. Effective donor coordination
is an essential element of NARP II that would also be supported by the
project.
4.   Project Implementation:   The project would be implemented over five
years by KARI. The focus would be on fostering efficient use of
available financial resources for agricultural research by expanding the
capacity of the Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) to finance contract
research and through encouraging contributions by private sector
operators, NGOs and farmer organizations; regional and international
collaboration would also be facilitated.
5.   Project Cost and Financing:   Of an estimated total cost of NARP II
of about US$179.9 million, IDA's contribution is US$39.7 million. The
detailed financing plan was agreed by appraisal. Bilateral donor
support to NARP is envisaged to continue at between US$12 and US$15
million annually over the medium-term. Government support is expected
to be sustained at present levels and would finance approximately
US$70.0 million (or 40 percent) of the total cost. Contributions are
expected from the private sector to meet the remaining gap.
6.   Environmental Aspects:   Environmental assessment Category C. The
project would: (i) provide assistance, as one of its sub-components, for
KARI's research effort in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) with the main
objective to reduce the use of chemical pesticides which may pose
environmental risk; (ii) support a research agenda focused on
development of conservation-based farming systems and resource
conservation; and (iii) through enhanced technologies, bring about
improved yields which would serve to reduce pressure on fragile land
resources.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending March 21, 1997
- 2 -



