Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14535-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT - PHASE II
December 13, 1996
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (KSh)
US$1 = KSh 4S
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS
ARF                                 Agricultural Research Fund
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
ESAF                  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                    European Union
FSA                   Farming Systems Approach
GOK                   Government of Kenya
GON                   Government of the Netherlands
IDA                   International Development Association
KARI                  Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
MALDM                 Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
MR=TT                 Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology
NARP II               National Agricultural Research Project-Phase II
NEAP                  National Environment Action Plan
ODA                   Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PFP                   Policy Framework Paper
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
SASA                  Sector Assistance Strategy for Agriculture
SIDA                  Swedish International Development Authority
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:         Callisto E. Madavo
Director:               James W. Adams
Division Chief:         Sushma Ganguly
Staff:                  Edgardo Quisumbing



KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE H
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agency:          Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI)
Beneficiary:                  KARI, researchers
Poverty:                      Not Applicable
Amount:                       SDR 27.4 million (US$39.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                        Standard IDA Terms with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:               Standard (a variable rate between 0-0.5 % of the
undisbursed credit balance, set annually by the
Executive Directors of IDA)
Onlending Terms:              Grant to KARI and researchers
Financing Plan:               See para. 4.27
Net Present Value:            US$70.3 million (For Food Grains Research Alone)
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 14535-KE
Map No.                       IBRD 26951
Project ID No.                KE-PA 1354






NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II
(NARP H)
STAFF APPRAISAL
Contents
Credit and Project Summary ...............................................................i
1. INTRODUCTION .................................................................1
2. BACKGROUND  .................................................................3
A. MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT .................................. ................................3
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ..........................................................................4
Role in the Economy ................................................................4
Performance ................................................................4
Agricultural Growth: Challenges and Prospects .....................................4
C. GOVERNMENT POLICY OBJECTIVES AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY .... 6
D. PROJECT CONTEXT7 ...............................................................................7
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy .........................................................7
Rationale for Bank Assistance ...............................................................8
Project Preparation ...............................................................8
Lessons Learned ...............................................................8
3. AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH ................................................................                       10
National Strategy for Agricultural Research .................              ......................... 10
Public Sector Role ..............................................................            10
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February-March 1995. The mission was led
by Jacob Kamnpen, Principal Agriculturist, Regional Mission in East Africa (Task Manager), and included:
Messrs./Mmes. E. Quisumbing (Research Management) who assumed task management of the project after
appraisal, Gary Luhman and Jean Claude Fayd'Herbe (Financial Management), Mbuba Mbungu (Procurement);
Doug Forno (Research Fund), Jock Anderson (Socio-economics), Sam Chema (Livestock), Gabrielle Persley and John
Doyle (Biotechnology), Walter Lusigi (Natural Resource Management); Jitendra Srivastava (Crop Research and
Seeds), Christian Hoste (Human Resource Development), Johnson Ndegwa (Extension), and V. Venkatesan (Seeds).
The Mission was assisted by and worked cooperatively with the KARI Project Preparation Team comprising C.
Ndiritu, A. Mailu, L. Ole Odupoy, D. Wachira, R. Kiome and J. Matata. Contributions were also made by Gajanand
Pathmanathan (Section Chief, Agriculture Section, Regional Mission), John Nyaga (Finance and Audits) and Donna
Criddle (Operations Analyst). . Mimes. Cora Favis and Christine Cornelius provided assistance in preparing the cost
tables and Ms. Brenda Mudd in document processing. The peer reviewers are Moctar Toure (AFTSR), Marie-Helene
Collion, and Jan Weijenberg (SAIBG). Mr. Doug Forno (AGRTN) is the Lead Adviser. Sushma Ganguly and
James Adams are the Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.



- ii -
Private Sector Role ............................................. 11
Institutional Framework .............................................                                           12
NARP I Results and Impact .............................................                                         13
RemainingAgenda .............................................                                                   14
4. THE PROJECT ...............................................                                                                         16
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...............................................                                                       16
B. PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................................                                                          16
C. DETAILED FEATURES ..............................................                                                        17
Institution Building ............................................. 17
Priority Applied Research Programs .............................................                                20
Seeds Program .............................................                                                    23
D.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING                             ....................           .......................... 24
E.  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .............................................. 26
F. DISBURSEMENT .............................................. 29
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                 ............................................ 31
A.  INSTITU T.ION  BUILDING .............................................. 3 1
B. RESEARCHPROGRAMS ..............................................                                                          32
C. SEEDS PROGRAM .............................................. 33
D. KEY  IMPLEMENTATION  PROGRESS INDICATORS ............................................. 33
E. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND PROGRESS REPORTING ........................                                        ........... 33
F.  SUPERVISION PLAN  .............................................. 34
6. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    .....................                                               .......................... 35
A. BENEFITS .............................................. 35
Facilitating Overall Growth ............................................                                       35
Making Strategic Choices ............................................. 36
Economic Analysis ............................................                                                 37
B.  EMPLOYMENT AND POVERTY  IMPACT  .......................                                     ....................... 38
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ..............................................                                                     39
D. SOCIAL AND  GENDER ISSUES .............................................. 39
E. RISKS ..............................................                                                                    39
F. SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................                                                           40
7. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................... 42
A. ASSURANCES AND AGREEMENTS ..............................................                                                42
B. RECOMMENDATION .............................................. 43



- 111 -
LIST OF CHARTS/ANNEXES
Chart I.  KARI Headquarters Organization Structure
Chart II. Center Linkage Organization
Annex 1. Letter of Sectoral Policy for Agricultural Research
Annex 2. Project Cost Tables
Annex 3. Estimated Schedule ofDisbursement
Annex 4. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
Annex 5. Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
Annex 6. Project Performance and Impact Indicators
Annex 7. National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan
Annex 8. The Regional Research Strategy and Plan
Annex 9. Consultant Services Requirements
Annex 10. Agricultural Research Fund
Annex 11. Supervision Plan
Annex 12. Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
Annex 13. Private Sector Role
Annex 14. EconomicAnalysis
Annex 15. Selected Documents in the Project File
Annex 16. Map






NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-
PHASE II (NARP II)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The proposed project is the second in support of Kenya's National Agricultural
Research Program. It is a follow-up to NARP I (Credit 1 849-KE) for which the
International Development Association (IDA), the European Union, the Government of
the Netherlands, Japan, Sweden, the United States, the United Kingdom, and several other
donors provided assistance to the Government of Kenya (GOK) for program
implementation. The primary objectives of NARP I were to: (i) focus on priority research
with a likelihood of high and early returns to investments; (ii) develop technologies that
contribute to increased productivity, particularly of smallholdings; (iii) enhance producer
participation; (iv) encourage cooperation between the new Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute (KARI) and other agricultural research institutions; and (v) strengthen linkages
between research and extension. The strategy to achieve these goals was to assist GOK in
reorganizing agricultural research under a single institution, KARL, and to support the
Institute in the implementation of the research program.
1.2   NARP I has laid the institutional foundation for agricultural research and the first
phase objectives have largely been achieved. KARI has been established as a semi-
autonomous institution with its own Board and has responsibility for publicly-funded
agricultural research. Donor coordination has greatly improved. KARI's accounting
systems were reorganized and computerized. An improved Scheme of Service has been-
introduced for scientific staff. The training program has been effective. A network of,
Research Centers (RCs) has been set up with responsibility for adaptive research and
research/extension linkages. An Agricultural Research Fund (ARF), financed through
Government, donor and private industry/NGO contributions, was established to encourage
collaborative research. KARI now has considerable "on-the-shelf' technology in terms of
improved crop varieties and better cultivation practices; important achievements were also
made in the area of integrated pest management, dairy production and animal health.



- 2 -
1.3    However, the adoption of improved technologies developed by research was slow.
Several "on-the-shelf' technologies were not adequately tested and evaluated by farmers
for their relevance and adaptability. In other cases, the delivery system (e.g., for seeds and
vegetatively propagated planting materials) is not adequate. Thus, notwithstanding the
areas of progress under NARP I, there is a critical need for continued support to maintain
the momentum, address newly emerging priorities and solidify agricultural research
including increased support from the private sector.



2. BACKGROUND
A. MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.1    Kenya is a low-income country with a per capita income of $270 in 1994. The
economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, that employs 70 percent of the labor force
and contributes about one quarter of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Coffee, tea and
horticultural crops account for over 50 percent of merchandise exports. Between 1991
and 1993, Kenya's macroeconomic performance was poor. In April 1992, the
Government agreed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), on a program of actions
necessary to re-establish a sound macroeconomic framework which included deficit
reduction and liberalization of the foreign exchange regime. Until rmid-1993, the
implementation of the actions required was unsatisfactory. Although fiscal targets were
met, monetary targets were exceeded and the liberalization of the foreign exchange regime
proved to be unsustainable.
2.2   However, since mid-1993 there has been improvement in macroeconomic
management. Monetary policy was tightened and the economy began to stabilize.
Inflation slowed, the nominal Treasury bill rate declined and the market-determined
exchange rate appreciated paving the way for the unification of the official and market
rates. These improvements allowed the Government to negotiate a three-year Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) with the Bank and the IMF, supported by a one-year Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). The Government's macroeconomic performance
under the reform program has been generally positive, although the deficit target was
exceeded in fiscal 1994 due to arrears in debt service payments. On the structural side,
virtually all exchange controls were abolished, the exchange rate was floated, price
controls lifted and the maize market liberalized. On the other hand, civil service reform
got off to a slow start and parastatal reform lagged. The economy's initial response to the
improved macroeconomic management measures has been positive, with the exchange rate
appreciating, reserve levels increasing, inflation declining, and real GDP growing at
around 3 percent in 1994. The Government successfully completed the ESAF
arrangement and has agreed on a new PFP (1995-97) with the Bank and the Fund. This
PFP seeks to sustain fiscal adjustment and accelerate structural reforms. Donors, in a
Consultative Group meeting in December 1994, indicated their support and pledged new
commitments of US$800 million equivalent for 1995.



- 4 -
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Role in the Economy
2.3    Agriculture is still the largest single sector of the economy contributing about a
quarter of GDP. The three major agricultural exports are tea, coffee and horticultural
crops, which together account for over 50 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
Agriculture also has a significant impact on other sectors of the economy; it makes an
indirect contribution of roughly another 30 percent to GDP through the manufacturing
and service sectors. About two-thirds of industrial output in the country is agro-industry
based. The agriculture sector is composed of a traditional subsistence sub-sector and a
commercial sub-sector that include both large-scale farming and smallholder production.
Large farms (over 20 ha.) cover roughly 3.6 million ha. of total agricultural area, account
for 53 percent of marketed output and 23 percent of agricultural output. Smallholder
agriculture, with an average farm size of 1.13 ha., is the dominant mode of production,
and provides over 85 percent of total employment.
Performance
2.4   Historically, agricultural sector performance in Kenya has been better than the
average for Sub-Saharan Africa. The growth rate was about 4.7 percent per annum
between 1960 and 1970; it declined to 2.7 percent between 1970 and 1982 and then
increased to 3.8 percent from 1982-1988. Initial increases in agricultural production
stemmed mostly from the expansion of cultivated land. Agricultural growth was
subsequently sustained primarily through the introduction of technological change
embodied in the release and adoption of new varieties, related technical packages,
improved farming practices and most importantly, expanded and intensified production of
higher value-added crops. The shift in crop mix towards higher value-added commodities
accounted for as much as 65 percent of the growth in agriculture in the past 20 years.
Sector performance has worsened since 1988. The agricultural growth rate, barely
positive in 1991, turned negative in 1992. Whereas the drastic downturn in agricultural
growth resulted largely from poor rainfall, there were other factors as well, notably
declining input use, general erosion of producer incentives arising from payment delays,
weak implementation of structural reforms and inadequate support services to the sector.
The situation reversed in 1994, and agriculture grew at 5 percent. A sound policy
framework and an effective extension effort enabled the sector to respond effectively to
favorable rainfall.
Agricultural Growth: Challenges and Prospects
2.5   The country's main development needs remain those of food security, employment
creation, poverty reduction and environmental protection, and agriculture is expected to
play a critical role in meeting these challenges. About 500,000 people will enter the labor
force annually between now and the year 2000, putting increasing pressure on the urban



labor markets which cannot cope with this influx. The most recent Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) suggests that the economy has to grow at a rate of about 7 percent
annually to meet the employment challenge, underpinned by at least a 4.4 percent growth
in agricultural production and 1.5 percent growth in productivity; this scenario implies that
employment in agriculture would need to grow at 2.9 percent per annum. Taking
agriculture back on a sustainable growth path is also crucial for reducing rural poverty.
The Kenya Poverty Assessment Report shows that the bulk of the poor live in rural areas,
two-thirds of them in the high- and medium-potential areas. The report states that
productivity growth in agriculture is vital to make a dent in rural poverty alleviation and
concludes that per capita income growth is clearly the top priority requiring both
productivity growth and structural transformation in agriculture.
2.6    A detailed 1995 review of the agricultural sector by the Bank' suggests that the
agricultural growth challenge can be met. Major growth is expected to be generated by
the smallholder sector, given that the smallholder yields are well below their potential.
The report argues that increases in crop yields and livestock productivity, and shifts
towards higher-value crops will be the dominant sources of growth. The report states that
the strategy to promote smallholder-led growth should include increased producer
incentives through improved and more competitive marketing structures and more
efficient distribution channels, enhanced use of agricultural inputs, improved efficiency in
public investment/expenditure allocations, the continued development of smallholder
technologies and more efficient use of agricultural land.
2.7    Regarding the policy framework, significant improvements have taken place in the
last two years and critical reforms are being undertaken to encourage private sector
initiative and involvement in all aspects of production, processing and marketing of key
agricultural and livestock commodities and in the provision of agricultural support
services. The institutional structure of the sector is being reformulated and the role of the
Government is being re-aligned from direct intervention to an indirect role of setting the
incentive framework and organizing the regulatory and enabling environment. Progress
on the structural front, however, is slow; significant public sector involvement remains in
maize, wheat and milk marketing and the divestiture of public sector ownership of sugar
factories is progressing slowly. These structural issues are being addressed in the context
of the overall dialogue on the PFP.
2.8    A significant immediate growth response can only be elicited from the full
liberalization and deregulation of markets for agricultural products and inputs as is evident
from coffee, where the slightly higher prices supported by an improved payment system
under the IDA-financed Second Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP II, Cr. 2062-KE)), is
resulting in better husbandry practices and increased yields. The second source of growth
would come from taking Kenyan agriculture back on the growth path based on raising
performance of existing farming units through the application of "on the shelf'
The World Bank. 1995. Kenya Agriculture Sector Memorandum, White Cover Draft, October 12,
1995.



-6 -
technologies such as new varieties and better farming and resource conservation practices
and of new, improved technologies being developed. Such technologies can come from
ongoing research programs in traditional crops such as maize, wheat, sorghum and millet,
and in animal health and dairy production (e.g., through promotion of zero grazing and
improved forage crops). There is also potential to introduce improved technology in the
semi-arid lands where gains would be possible from non-traditional crops such as oilseeds
and cotton.
2.9   The third source of growth would come from transforming smallholder farms from
a subsistence mode to a farm enterprise orientation by accelerating the change in the mix
of farming activities to those which add more value per unit of land and labor. Such
changes will require a shift from low-return food crops for subsistence consumption
(maize, sorghum, millet and cassava) towards high-value-added enterprises (dairy,
horticulture, tea, sugarcane, pyrethrum, etc.). Although this is happening in some of the
high-potential areas, the change is currently frustrated by the inability of the service
delivery systems to effectively respond to farmer demands. NARP II has a crucial role to
play in bringing about this transformation.
C. GOVERNMENT POLICY OBJECTIVES AND SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
2.10  The Goverrnment's development strategy was earlier articulated in Sessional Paper
No. 1, Economic Management for Renewed Growth (1986), and a Letter of Sectoral
Policy prepared by GOK, as part of the proposed Arid Lands Resource Management
Project (ALRMP). Both the Development Plan for 1994-96 and the recently released
Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1994, Macroeconomic and Structural Policy Frameworkfor
1995-1997, underscore the theme of sustainable development. Government strategy is
based on realigning the policy framework and the incentives structure, and on encouraging
a more competitive marketing system with increased participation of the private sector in
all aspects of marketing and distribution of agricultural commodities. It states the
Government's intent to reduce its role and that of parastatal organizations in the sector as
part of a strategy to create an enabling environment for greater private initiative,
restructuring marketing parastatals and liberalizing markets. The Government's
development strategy outlined in a Letter of Subsectoral Policy for Agricultural Research
also recognizes the need to provide support for the core programs in agricultural research
and extension.
2.11  The Government strategy is sound in its key provisions but requires sustained
commitment and implementation. Substantial progress has been achieved to date. Prices
of agricultural crops have been largely liberalized, and marketing restrictions removed. A
decision has been taken to greatly reduce the role of the National Cereals and Produce
Board (NCPB) in the marketing of maize and to commercialize the organization by the
end of 1996. The Cotton Board's ginneries have been sold or are in the process of being
sold, and the state sugar refineries are being prepared for sale. A decision has been taken
to privatize seed production and distribution. Barriers to entry of private firms into the
dairy industry have been removed. Thus, steps to strengthen the policy and institutional



- 7 -
framework are being taken, and the agricultural research system needs to be further
enhanced to provide the technology for smallholder farmers to take advantage of the new
environment.
D. PROJECT CONTEXT
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
2.12  The proposed project would be a key element of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) which was discussed by the Board on January 30, 1996. The CAS
supports the reduction of poverty through accelerated economic growth and employment
generation, by promoting an enabling environment for the private sector, improved
efficiency in the public sector, human capital development, better environment
management, and targeted interventions for the disadvantaged. As the dominant sector
and with substantial potential, agriculture has a central role to play in the development
strategy. The sector assistance strategy, developed in a continuing dialogue with the
Government and other stakeholders, is reflected in the Agricultural Sector Review and
focuses on revitalizing the rural economy, particularly through further liberalization of
marketing and processing of agricultural commodities, and through raising smallholder
productivity and advancing crop diversification. Structural transformation of the
smallholder farm base would be fostered through increased emphasis on higher-value
crops, promoted through technology generation and dissemination. This strategy is being
supported through a series of sector operations. The Second Agriculture Sector
Management Project (ASMP II, Cr. 2445-KE) is supporting the formulation of a vision
and role for Government in a liberalized agricultural sector, as well as the strengthening of
management and analytical capacity in MALDM. Commercialization of NCPB is being
discussed as part of the policy dialogue, while privatization of parastatals in the cotton and
sugar subsectors is being supported under ASMP II. In the seeds subsector, the policy
and institutional framework would be strengthened under NARP II.
2.13   Support for technology generation and dissemination has been provided under
NARP I and a series of extension operations, of which the Second National Extension
Project (NEP II, Cr. 2199-KE) is currently under implementation. Further support for
technology generation, as well as strengthened linkages to extension, would be provided
under NARP II. In view of its predominant smallholder base, agriculture is at the center
of the country's poverty reduction efforts and of the Bank's poverty assistance strategy, as
described in the Poverty Assessment Report. Agriculture is also the dominant element-in
environment management and in the country's National Environment Action Plan,
developed with assistance from the Bank and other donors. Thus the proposed project
would also be an important component of the Bank's environment assistance strategy.



-8 -
Rationale for Bank Assistance
2.14 The Bank has played an important role in advising the Government on
macroeconomic and agricultural development in the context of sound environment
management and with a strong focus on poverty reduction. It has assisted with the policy
framework for the agricultural research subsector, the strategy and plan for its
development and the implementation of that plan in coordination with other major donors.
The Bank worked closely with the Government and other donors in designing and
implementing the National Agricultural Research Project, which supported the first phase
of a longer-term program for strengthening agricultural research capacity of the country.
The Bank has continued this involvement during the preparation of the proposed project,
although in more of a supporting role as the Government's capacity has expanded, and
with particular assistance to the Government on donor coordination. The Bank is now in
a position to make a further contribution, in terms of the readjustment of public and
private sector roles in agricultural research, raising the efficiency of KARI, and focusing
public research on the highest priorities for growth and poverty alleviation. This
contribution would complement the Bank's support for initiatives in extension,
environment/natural resource management, and agricultural sector management.
Project Preparation
2.15  The project was prepared by a Government task force, led by KARI and including
all major stakeholders from the public and private sectors, supported by IDA and other
major donors. Particular efforts were made to include farmers into the process for setting
research priorities, through their participation in the local and regional committees.
Lessons learned (see below) from the first project, as well as other projects in Kenya and
elsewhere, were incorporated into the proposed project. During implementation,
emphasis would be given to the farming systems approach (FSA) pioneered under the first
project, involving farmers and extensionists in the identification of problems, and in
research design and implementation, with a focus on research in farmers' fields.
Lessons Learned
2.16   The Bank has accumulated considerable experience in supporting research projects
throughout the developing world. The proposed project was able to build on lessons
gained during the initial project, other agricultural projects in Kenya, and agricultural
research projects in other countries. For instance, uniting donor efforts in a single project
is desirable, but as the number of participants, project size and complexity increases,
difficulties in coordinating donors also increase. The project will institutionalize KARI's
capacity to coordinate donors by supporting the operations of KARI's Donor
Coordination Unit (DCU). The DCU's monitoring and evaluation capacity will be
enhanced. It will also establish standard formats for the preparation of reports on
procurement, training, and overall project progress and finances.



1.    Project performance of NARP I has been rated as satisfactory in the
Implementation Completion Report. Overall performance of projects in Kenya, however,
has been affected by inadequate and tardy counterpart funding, weak management and
financial systems, and inadequate incentive and reward systems to motivate staff. Under
the project, improved management arrangements, and streamlined financial and accounting
systems would improve project management and the flow of funds. Key financial
operations would be decentralized to the research centers whose directors would be
delegated greater authority for financial transactions. A performance appraisal system
would be implemented to determine staff promotion and rewards.
2.17  In a project where major institutional change is an objective, key elements of
change, e.g., retrenchment of staff, rationalization of the number and functions of research
centers, and streamlining of the priority setting process, have been identified and given
indicative timetables. Participation of farmer clients, and linkages with the extension
service, through mechanisms such as the Farming Systems Approach (FSA) introduced
under NARP L would be greatly expanded in NARP II. Partnerships with producer and
processor associations, and academic institutions would be fostered through research
supported by the Agricultural Research Fund (ARF), also initiated under NARP I.
Building on the successful experience with tea and coffee research, responsibility for
research on selected industrial crops would be transferred to the private sector during the
course of NARP II. Phasing in of other project actions would be conditional on
institutional progress which would be reviewed during supervision missions involving
other donors and KARI.Agricultural Research



3. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
National Strategy for Agricultural Research
3.1    As noted earlier, the overall aim of agricultural sector development is to accelerate
the production of food, industrial, and export crops, and livestock and forestry products,
on a sustainable basis, thereby contributing to the growth in rural incomes and
employment, as well as improved food security. The generation and dissemination of
technology are crucial to achieving this.
3.2   In view of increasingly severe financial resource constraints, the roles of the public
and private sectors in agricultural research are undergoing change. In the public sector,
scarce resources are being focused on the highest research priorities, particularly in those
areas where the private sector will not contribute (especially food crops, forage crops and
natural resource management). In order to pursue these priorities in a more effective and
efficient manner, the institutional framework is being streamlined, a performance-oriented
incentives structure is being introduced, and partnership with stakeholders, principally
farmers, is being strengthened. The private sector is being encouraged to assume greater
responsibility for financing research from which it receives direct benefits, particularly in
the case of cash crops.
Public Sector Role
3.3    KARI has undertaken a broad review of national research priorities and has
identified adaptive research on major food crops (maize, wheat, sorghum, millet, potato,
cassava, sweet potato and pulses) and livestock (grass and forage crops, dairy and beef
cattle, sheep and goats) as the highest priorities for the public sector. KARI is now
turning its attention to an evaluation of priorities within these broad categories, in
particular with a view to identifying "trigger technologies"--those which can have the
greatest impact in the shortest period of time. This exercise, completed in July 1995, has
reconfirmed that the priorities determined earlier remain essentially the same. These
priorities, listed in the Project Implementation Manual2 will be the focus of NARP II. In
addition, KARI will be periodically reviewing research areas within the broad commodity
groups as part of the annual review process to accommodate changing circumstances.
This review will deterrnine the research agenda for each coming year. The allocation of
resources will be set and adjusted in accordance with the refined priorities resulting from
this process.
2   KARI. 1995. NARP II Project Implementation Manual; Nairobi, Kenya, 120pp.



- 11 -
3.4    KARI has long recognized the difficulty farmers have had in achieving satisfactory
yield levels, even when such yield potentials are established through on-farm research.
KARI believes that substantial progress can be made in part through the strengthening of
partnerships, specially farmer participation in research priority setting, technology
verification and adaptation, and impact evaluation. Another factor will be the incentives
system within KARI, which will emphasize farm level impact of research results. In
addition, KARI's expanded socioeconomic capacity will devote increased attention to
farm-level analysis and the development of simple methods for measuring the effects of a
new variety, improved farming practices, etc.
3.5    KARI is transforming itself into a leaner, more effective institution through the
research prioritization process where beneficiaries participate. This involves
rationalization of the research center network, retrenchment of around 1,400 non-essential
support staff, redeployment of scientists, enhancement of human resource development,
and improved research management such as a new system for internal review and approval
of research proposals, introduction of a new financial management system, and
integrating/upgrading KARI' s information management system. These initiatives will be
undertaken as part of KARl's strategic plan, that will be supported under the proposed
project. The Government will need to assume greater responsibility for funding the leaner
KARI, particularly increased funding of non-salary operating costs.
3.6    KARl's institutional development program will include the strengthening of its
planning capacity. Part of this effort will be directed toward investment planning, in order
that KARI will be in a position to operate effectively within the framework of a future
Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP). In fact, KARI will serve as a pilot for
ASIP, which will be able to draw on the experience of the strengthened investment
planning efforts of the institute.
3.7    While KARI has been strengthening its linkages with farmers, the extension
service, universities, and industry associations, it recognizes that there is considerable
potential for expanding these partnerships. Various mechanisms have been developed,
e.g., on-farn trials, joint activities with the extension service, and team research with
universities. Major efforts will be devoted to building on the existing foundation,
particularly with respect to involving the farmer clients. The ARF will foster these
relationships, since it will favor proposals which emphasize teamwork among stakeholders
and linkages with universities. KARL will also enhance its collaboration with regional and
international research institutions, and it has agreed to become the National Agricultural
Information Focal Point (NAIFP) for East Africa under the initiative of the Special
Program for African Agriculture Research (SPAAR).
Private Sector Role
3.8    As part of the Government's overall liberalization strategy for transition to a
market-oriented economy, the private sector is being encouraged to assume responsibility
for functions for which it is best suited. In the case of agricultural research, a variety of



- 12 -
mechanisms are being developed to induce the private sector to assume these
responsibilities. These include complete transfer of responsibility for research programs to
industry associations, (e.g., sugar and pyrethrum), contract research, and various forms of
cost-sharing.
3.9    Tea and coffee research are already fully supported by the private sector through
cess funding. Responsibility for sugar research is being assumed by the industry
association, and therefore will not be supported under the proposed project. In the case of
cotton, the proposed Cotton Development Council will help mobilize additional resources
for research, and it is expected that the industry will assume full responsibility for research
by the end of NARP II. For pyrethrum, the National Pyrethrum Board already provides
substantial support for research undertaken by KARI and it is expected that the industry
will assume full responsibility for research by the end of NARP II. Oilseeds represent a
special case, because of the large production potential but low output at present.
Nevertheless, a program has been prepared for the development of this industry, including
oilseeds research. In the case of cotton, pyrethrum, and oilseeds, the project would
provide a small amount of support for the research programs, to provide a bridge to the
assumption of full responsibility by the respective industries.
3.10   The private sector has been instrumental for developing technologies to promote
the production and exports, specially of ornamental crops. In the last five years, Kenya
has become one of the leading exporters of macadamia nuts as a result of KARI's
introduction of higher yielding hybrid varieties. In the case of horticulture, the value of
fresh horticultural produce rose from KSh 1.4 billion in 1989 to KSh 4.8 billion in 1994,
with a significant portion exported, largely through the initiatives of the private sector.
3.11   For industries or organizations which have particular problems that they want to
have investigated, KARI would do so on a contract basis. If the issue is of high priority in
the research agenda and the industry is unable to support the full cost of the research,
KARI would carry it out on a cost-sharing basis. In the case of staple crops and smaller
organizations, e.g., farmers' associations or groups, KARI would expand the cost-sharing
arrangements that it has been developing on a pilot basis. The project would support the
expansion of KARl's capacity to carry out such research, with the cost to be recovered in
part or in full, depending on the specific arrangements.
3.12 Finally, the ARF would become an increasingly important instrument for
mobilizing support from the private sector and for fostering cooperative arrangements
among the public sector (KARI), the private sector, academia, other research institutes,
and national and international research centers.
Institutional Framework
3.13   Agricultural research is conducted by a network of organizations in the public and
private sectors, and KARI is the lead institution of this network. Tea and coffee research
is undertaken by separate institutes supported by a cess on the produce. Research is also



- 13 -
undertaken by the universities, research foundations, and private industries. KARI
operates under the supervision of the Ministry of Research, Technical Training, and
Technology (MRTTT) and is chartered to conduct research in all agricultural disciplines
and commodities, with the exception of forestry and fisheries.
3.14  KARI operates under a Board of Management, with members consisting of
representatives of the funding ministry (MRTTT), the "client" ministry (MALDM), and
two representatives of the farming community. The Director-General, the chief executive
officer of KARI, is an ex-officio member of the Board. Headquarters is located at Kabete,
just outside Nairobi. The institute operates a network of some 15 national centers, of
which 4 also have regional mandates, focusing on applied research on various
commodities and factors of production, e.g., soil, fertilizers, water, pesticides, etc.. and 6
regional centers, focusing on adaptation of technologies to dominant crop/livestock
production systems in various agroclimatic zones. A list of NRCs, RRCs and associated
outreach stations is provided in Annex 11. Close coordination is maintained with the
extension service, under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between KARI
(MRTTT) and MALDM which provides for a number of joint activities, including on-farm
research and membership of extension officers in the advisory committees of NRCs and
RRCs.
NARP I Results and Impact
3.15   Subsector Development Program. NARP I supported the first phase of a
subsector development program for agricultural research. It supported priority adaptive
research programs, and concurrently introduced a process for defining national research
priorities. It also supported the strengthening of the institutional and physical
infrastructure for research. Implementation of the project was marked by close
cooperation among Government agencies, especially with the extension service, and close
coordination of multilateral (EU and IBRD) and bilateral (United States, The Netherlands,
Germany, United Kingdom, Japan, Sweden, etc.) donors.
3.16  Implementation. Major achievements under NARP I have been the establishment
of essential agricultural research infrastructure, the training and upgrading of KARI's
human resources, the establishment of an ARF to finance collaborative research contracts,
the rehabilitation of a network of Research Centers serving specific commodities and
agroclimatic zones, and the development of improved technology for important crops,
livestock production and natural resource management.
3.17  Research Results & Impact. Significant achievements have been attained in
maize, the primary staple crop. Two hybrids, suitable for the coast and high altitude areas,
have been introduced and now are planted on about 75 percent of the area planted to
maize. Average maize yield has increased from around 1 ton per hectare to 3.5 tons per
hectare since the introduction of these hybrids, although expansion into more marginal
areas has masked the impact of the hybrids, to some extent. Ten new cultivars will soon
be released for the lowland coastal, mid-altitude dry and moist, and highland production



- 14 -
environments. Drought-tolerant and disease-resistant varieties of sorghum, millet, cassava
and sweet potato have been released for the drier areas. Several superior varieties of rice,
grain legumes, and wheat have also been released. All these varieties yield higher than the
traditional varieties, due to better disease and insect resistance, and/or shorter maturity
which allow them to escape critical periods of drought.
3.18   Concerning livestock, KARL adapted the "zero grazing" system for dairy cattle to
local conditions, particularly the integration of the widely-grown Napier grass, which
forms the basis of the system, now widely practiced by smallholders. An increase of
400,000 dairy cattle was recorded from 1987 to 1991. KARI has developed effective
methods of immunizing cattle against East Coast Fever, and these are now ready for
widespread dissemination. Significant progress has been made in the development of a
dual-purpose goat for meat and milk production. A multiplication program for these goats
is being developed with MALDM.
3.19  Regarding natural resource management, KARI has determined fertilizer response
(nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and farmyard manure) under a variety of local
conditions and generated a series of recommendations for extension. KARI also provides
important analytical and advisory services on soil and plant management, fertilizer quality,
and animal feed. The Fertilizer Use Recommendation Project (FURP) funded by the EU
and implemented for several years by researchers in farmers' fields at 71 sites in 31
districts has established a solid base to predict crop responses to NPK and farmyard
manure, and to develop useful extension recommendations. In the Arid and Semi-Arid
Lands (ASAL), different soil and water management practices and their effect on
agricultural production were investigated; soil "pitting" and "tied" ridges were found to be
effective for water conservation and are being adopted in several areas. Research on the
long-term impact of land-use systems in important agro-ecological zones established the
effectiveness of several low-cost sustainable soil fertility management strategies.
3.20  KARl's capacity for socioeconomic analysis has been strengthened considerably,
with important effects on the priority-setting process, identification of policy issues,
development of the farming systems approach, and the quality of diagnostic surveys.
Remaining Agenda
3.21  NARP II would support the second phase of the subsector development program,
in particular, the further strengthening of the prioritization and resource allocation
processes; expansion of priority adaptive research, building on successful experience under
the first phase; human resource capacity building, and further enhancement of KARI's
organization and management systems. Emphasis would be given to a refinement of
priorities to focus on specific promising technologies, adaptive research in accordance
with these priorities (financed in part through the ARF), renewed efforts on technology
adoption through strengthened partnerships, a streamlined public sector research
establishment, increased responsibility of the private sector for research, preparation of a
rolling subsector investment program, and further strengthened donor coordination. Since



- 15 -
inadequate access to quality seed has been identified as a major obstacle to accelerated
growth in productivity, support would be provided for pilot seed production and
distribution programs, particularly for the development of the private, informal sector.
Similarly, the project would facilitate an expansion of KARI's soil fertility management
advisory services on a full cost-recovery basis (para. 4.19).



4. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.1    The project would contribute to food security, poverty alleviation and environmental
protection by raising agricultural productivity and incomes on a sustained basis through
technology generation and dissemination in close cooperation with farmers and
extensionists, with particular emphasis on technologies which take into account indigenous
knowledge and are appropriate for smallholders and women. Improved technology would
enable smallholders to raise yields of existing crops and also allow them to shift part of their
land resources into higher-value crops, thus raising food security and incomes.
4.2   NARP II is designed to support, in particular, an intensified effort toward
technology development and adaptation to specific agro-ecological and socioeconomnic
environments and improvement of the technology delivery systems, particularly through
more effective collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and
Marketing (MALDM) and the universities, and active participation of smallholder farmers
and other intended beneficiaries. An important focus of NARP II is on establishing
appropriate procedures for the timely availability and efficient use of all available financial
and human resources for agricultural research and the strengthening of KARI's capacity for
the assessment of research impact.
B. PROJECT SUMMARY
4.3    NARP II would consist of the following three main components:
a)    Institution Building (approximately US$84.1 million). This component
would support KARl's transformation into a leaner, more efficient
organization focused on carrying out adaptive research in accordance with
the highest national priorities and promoting the dissemination of proven
technology to farmers, particularly smallholders and women. Emphasis
would be given to enhanced research management, financial management,
human resource development, and an upgraded information system. For this
component (as for b and c below), the project will provide financing for staff
salaries (largely from GOK), infrastructure rehabilitation, vehicles, plant and
equipment, technical assistance, training and incremental operating and
maintenance costs.



- 17 -
b)    Research Program Implementation (US$88.0 million). This component
will finance high-priority adaptive research programs implemented through
the RRCs, commodity and factor (of production) research implemented
through the NRCs, research in natural resource management, socioeconomic
research, collaborative research with universities, IARCs and National
Agricultural Research Systems (NARSs) of the Eastern Africa region; and
cofinancing of research proposals with the private sector for selected
research topics on a competitive basis through the ARF.
c)    Seeds Program. (US$7.8 million). This component will finance a pilot
scheme to develop a sustainable national seed system that can ensure the
availability of the quantity and quality of seeds required by farmers in a
timely manner. Based on demand, basic seed will be produced by financially
autonomous Foundation Seed Units (FSU) at selected KARI Research
Centers, while commercial seed will be produced by the formal and informal
private sectors.
C. DETAILED FEATURES
Institution Building
4.4   KARI intends to become more efficient in carrying out problem-oriented applied
and adaptive research in accordance with the highest national priorities and in promoting
the dissemination of proven technology to farmers. This transformation, initiated during
NARP I will be continued during NARP II, in accordance with KARl's Strategic
(Corporate) Plan, which has been revised in the light of present circumstances. The Plan
will serve as the conceptual framework for institution building under the project. KARl's
institutional development efforts during this phase of the transformation (paras. 5.2-5.8)
will focus on research management and programming, financial management, improving
the ARF, an integrated information system, human resource development, and monitoring
and evaluation. KARI will also pursue the transfer of research responsibility, specially on
industrial crops, to the private sector.
4.5    KARI has initiated the process of sharing the cost of research with the private
sector where feasible, as in the case of cash crops, through various mechanisms.
KARI has prepared a conceptual paper on Alternative Sources of Funds (ASF) and has
a plan to transfer the responsibilities of financing research for cash crops, particularly
pyrethrum, sugar, horticultural crops, and rice to the private sector. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that KARI shall prepare and adopt, not later than 12 months
after the effective date, an implementation plan for the private sector financing of
agricultural research and eventually, its taking over full responsibility to carry out and
finance these research activities as appropriate; and that a fill report on the progress of
these arrangements will be prepared and assessed during the mid-term review of the
project (para. 7.1a).



- 18 -
4.6    Research Management. KARl's management of research programs is being
strengthened to focus on the highest national priorities and raise the efficiency of program
implementation. KARI has reconfirmed the broad research priorities in crops (maize,
wheat, sorghum/mnillet, pulses), livestock (grass and forages, cattle for milk and beef,
sheep and goats) and natural resource conservation (soil fertility management,
maintenance of biodiversity, soil and water conservation), and is reviewing the priorities
within each of these subsectors (e.g., resistance to leaf streak virus, Fusarium wilt disease,
and the parasitic weed Striga affecting maize and sorghum). KARI has confirmed that
this process has already been completed. During negotiations, KARI's annual work
program and budget for the first year of the project was agreed and finalized (para. 7. Ib).
4.7   In order to ensure that research programs are in line with the priority framework
and have the intended impact, KARI has revised the system for the preparation, review,
approval, monitoring, and evaluation of proposals, including the roles of the Center
Research Advisory Committees (CRACs) and the Regional Research/Extension Advisory
Committees (RREACs). An important change to be progressively introduced under the
project would be that authority and responsibility for implementing the research programs,
including financial operations, will be decentralized to the centers, once the annual work
program and budget have been approved. This process will be introduced initially at two
NRCs and two RRCs, and gradually extended to the other centers as experience is gained.
4.8   KARI will also rationalize its center network in accordance with the priority
framework and ensure that the lead center for each priority program receives adequate
resources to implement the agreed program effectively. KARI would submit to the
Association its plan for the rationalization of its network of research centers which is on-
going, not later than July 1, 1997. Implementation progress would be assessed during the
mid-term review of the project (para. 7. lc). The "new" KARI will require fewer staff to
undertake research programs through a reduced network of centers. KARI has prepared a
program for phasing out approximately 1400 non-essential support staff over a four year
period. A detailed plan for implementing this program has been prepared and has been
provided to IDA. The Government has approved KARl's proposed staff retrenchment
plan and has authorized KARI to seek the required financing of such plan. The
Government also agreed to allow KARI to reallocate savings arising from the
retrenchment to augment KARl's annual operations and maintenance budgets (para
7.1d).
4.9   Financial Management. As part of improving research management, KARI's
financial management and accounting systems are being strengthened to ensure that all-
financial resources are mobilized and allocated efficiently in accordance with the research
priorities, funds are made available to researchers in a timely manner, costs (and, in some
cases, revenue) are properly allocated to programs and centers, accounts are kept current,
financial statements are produced promptly at the end of the reporting period, and internal
and external auditing processes are carried out in an effective and timely manner. The
finance and accounting offices at headquarters are being restructured under a streamlined
organizational setup (Charts I and 2). Details are provided in the Project Implementation
Plan (Annex 4). Budgeting/accounting functions are being decentralized to the centers.



- 19 -
Internal audit will be carried out to monitor implementation of financial controls.
Significant progress is being made by KARI in installing the computerized, program-based
financial management and accounting system. The initial number of pilot research centers
which will use the new system has been increased from ten to fourteen. Training of the
accounts staff of these pilot centers has been completed. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that after the first project year, and every year thereafter, a comprehensive
review would be held, in cooperation with other donors, to consider the annual work plan
and the new financial procedures and arrangements for the forthcoming fiscal year, and
that modifications in project design or procedures would be introduced as appropriate.
(para. 7. le).
4.10   Human Resource Development. KARI has initiated the process of strengthening
its management of human resources to ensure that they operate in an appropriate- incentive
framework for achieving the objectives of the organization and for effectively
implementing priority research programs. As part of this effort, a new performance
appraisal system is being designed, which will seek to ensure that rewards (including
promotions) are linked to performance. In order to implement the system, personnel
management will be strengthened under the project through the training of staff. In
addition, human resource specialists will be designated at each of seven larger centers and
provided appropriate training. The performance appraisal system was discussed and
finalized during negotiations (para; 7.1]). Approval of the performance appraisal system
by KARl's Board of Management is expected shortly.
4.11   Another element is the introduction of an expanded training program to upgrade
management, technical and administrative skills among managers, researchers and support
staff. A training policy statement has been adopted. A training needs assessment was
carried out with the assistance of the International Service for National Agricultural
Research (ISNAR) utilizing funds provided under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
On the basis of this assessment, the long-term training program will be revised
accordingly. In the meantime, some training identified during appraisal, e.g., financial
management system operations and computerization, would proceed, but subsequent
training will be undertaken in accordance with the final program. IDA support would
focus on in-service training of management, scientific, and support staff, plus a limited
number of post-graduate training mostly at local institutions. In addition, the project
would support the strengthening of the Training Unit at KARI to expand its capability to
organize courses and seminars (conducted largely by outside trainers and institutions),
through the provision of office equipment, staff training and financing of incremental
operating costs.
4.12  Information Systems. KARl's information system is being strengthened to
provide relevant and timely information to managers and researchers and to facilitate
communication and exchange of information between KARI staff and with outside
institutions. KARI is preparing an information technology strategy for generating and
disseminating essential information, including the operations of the NAIFP and a related
computerization plan. All information support is being centralized in an information
technology unit, which will establish, operate, and maintain the new management



- 20 -
information system (MIS), agriculture/research data bases, and enhanced library and
publication services. The project would support this effort through the provision of
incremental hardware and software in accordance with the computerization program,
training of staff, technical assistance and procurement of scientific literature and
references.
Priority Applied Research Programs
4.13  Adaptive Research at RRCs. KARI has adopted the Farming Systems Approach
(FSA) for the development and adaptation of technology. This approach entails the use of
research methods that promote close cooperation between farmers, extension staff and
researchers to identify production constraints and adapt technologies to the beneficiaries'
requirements and circumstances. The FSA was strengthened significantly under NARP I,
and NARP II would build on this foundation through a further increase and reallocation of
resources to the highest priority activities. This strengthening would be undertaken in
accordance with the FSA strategy and manual that has been prepared by KARI. IDA will
support operations and adaptive research activities of six of the ten RRCs; ODA and The
Netherlands will support the rest. Emphasis will be made on encouraging the active
participation of the intended beneficiaries to ensure that the processes for identifying
research projects are sound.
4.14  Technical backstopping to the RRCs would be provided by the NRCs where
required. Under the new financial management system (para. 4.9), RRC directors would
have authority and accountability for spending funds in accordance with the approved
research program and budget. In support of the high priority programs, the rehabilitation
of two RRCs at Embu and Mtwapa would be completed, additional vehicles, office,
laboratory and field equipment would be procured to meet the needs of expanded
programs, staff training and short-term technical assistance would be provided, and
incremental operating costs would be financed.
4.15  Linkages among researchers, extension staff, and farmers were strengthened
considerably under NARP I and a memorandum of understanding was concluded between
MRTTT (KARI) and MALDM which sets out the arrangements for training of extension
staff, joint workshops and field visits, collaborative on-farm research, etc.. The results to
date have been highly positive. The program would be expanded under NARP II,
primarily through provision to KARI of funds to match the contribution of the MALDM
to the District Farming Systems Teams, for incremental operating costs. In addition to
expanding the collaborative on-farm research with individual farmers, KARI would work
with the extension service to develop arrangements for on-farm research involving farmer
groups and associations, also on a cost-sharing basis. The coordination of all activities of
the RRCs rests with the recently appointed assistant director for regional research centers
at KARI Headquarters.
4.16  Crop Research. The project will finance the applied (problem-oriented) research
program on high-priority commodities which will be implemented through the NRCs, in
collaboration with RRCs. In the case of crops, KARI will increase its focus on food crops



- 21 -
such as maize, wheat, sorghum, barley, grain legumes, and root/tuber crops. Particular
attention will be devoted to making improved varieties available and development of
superior, location-specific and cost-effective cultural management practices. NARP II
would provide support to repair the internal roads in the research centers in Muguga,
Kitale, Kisii, and Naivasha and improve the water supply system of the NRC at Njoro.
Training, technical assistance, vehicles, additional office, field and laboratory equipment,
and financing for incremental, operating costs would be provided for selected programs.
For cash crops such as pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds and horticultural crops such as fruits,
vegetables and flowers, KARI would expand its efforts to shift the research burden to the
private sector (paras. 3.8-3.11). Negotiations, some in an advanced stage, are on-going
with private sector industry groups (cotton, sugar, pyrethrum, etc..) to agree on the scope,
arrangements and timetable for the concerned industry to take responsibility for research.
4.17  Livestock Research. In livestock, efforts will focus on high priority aspects of
animal production and health research on dairy cattle, beef cattle, poultry, and small
ruminants (sheep and goats), as well as on pasture and fodder crops and range
management. For animal health, the consolidation of national programs, which started
with viral and protozoan diseases through the establishment of liaison mechanisms
between KARI and the Veterinary Department of MALDM, will be extended to cover
other major livestock diseases. Nationally coordinated programs in all priority disciplines
(virology, bacteriology, protozoology, helminthology, entomology/acarology, and
epidemiology) are being established.
4.18  Support for these programs, primarily financing for incremental operating costs,
would be provided under NARP II. Another element in animal health will be the
dissemination of processes (e.g., for diagnosis) and inputs (mainly vaccines) to farmers. In
particular, KARI has developed a vaccine for East Coast Fever (ECF) in cattle and
another for Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia (CCPP) in goats which are to be
validated in field trials and introduced through a pilot program with participating farrners
and private veterinarians.
4.19   Natural Resource Management Research. The conservation and management
of the natural resource base, maintaining (and, where possible, expanding) the productive
potential, and the development of sustainable farming systems, are among the highest
national priorities. Soil fertility management is a key to the intensification of agriculture.
Soil fertility research and advisory services would be strengthened under the project. The
capacity for soil testing and plant tissue analysis, and for providing advice to the extension
service and to farmers on a full cost-recovery basis, will be pilot-tested in two RRCs
located at Kakamega and Mtwapa. The fertilizer use and recommendations program,
supported by the EU, will be closely linked with this effort. The project would provide
support in the form of training, equipment and financing for the incremental operating
costs of the two pilot RRCs. It was confirmed at negotiations that soil and tissue analyses
services are being provided on a full cost-recovery basis, in accordance with agreed
arrangements (para. 7. ig). Soil and water conservation research will be continued with
SIDA funding. Research on small-scale water harvesting, irrigation, and drainage would
also be supported under the project, with an emphasis on reviewing experience with small-



- 22 -
scale schemes in different agroclimatic zones and socioeconomic settings, to produce
recommendations on the most successful approaches.
4.20  Socioeconomics Research. Substantial constraints to the adoption of improved
technology still exist in the policy environment, and the policy issues require more
intensive review to prepare recommendations for consideration by Government. These
areas have been assigned to KARl's socioeconomic research program. The
socioeconomic perspective also needs to be incorporated more fully into the periodic
review and adjustment of research priorities. In addition, KARI's capacity for the
evaluation of research programs (including ex-post impact studies) needs to be expanded.
Strengthened leadership of the socioeconomic research program is being established at
KARI headquarters (including the establishment of a new Socioeconomic Division), to
support the work at the NRCs and RRCs.
4.21   Biotechnology. The application of biotechnology is opening up new opportunities
for accelerated agricultural development in many areas. The financing required to give
KARI access to biotechnology applications is included in the crops and livestock research
components. To ensure the safe development and use of biotechnology products, the
Kenya National Council for Science and Technology is finalizing the National Biosafety
Guidelines. NARP II would provide start-up support for downstream research which
would allow KARI to access and utilize biotechnologies, with the expectation of increased
support from other donors later on.
4.22  Agricultural Research Fund. Under NARP I, the ARF has provided research
grants to both individual researchers and teams of researchers, external to KARI, for a
variety of priority research topics defined by KARI. The success of this funding
mechanism as a cost-effective means to promote and support well-focused research,
together with the positive experiences of simnilar mechanisms in other countries provides
the rationale for the expanded support for the ARF under NARP II. Important changes to
be introduced under the project in the policies and operations of the ARF are: (i) an
expanded scope and incentive structure involving matching grants to attract multi-donor
and private agro-industry funding, (ii) expanded coverage to include research by KARI
scientists as well as by universities, private sector agencies, international institutions and
individuals, and (iii) a revised ranking system for the award of grants which favors those
proposals that seek to achieve synergy through team effort, collaboration among
institutions, and links with Universities, particularly the involvement of post-graduate
students in the research projects. The revised ARF also provides an attractive means by
which the private sector/industry can contract research, by offering a transparent and
competitive system of research grant award, accounting, monitoring and evaluation.
Other incentives for such collaboration are: (i) the provision for the ARF to give matching
grants for funds provided by the private sector, and (ii) the absence of any proprietary
rights over the technologies/varieties developed using funds from the ARF.
4.23   The ARF will operate under a restructured management committee, with a panel
of technical reviewers. It will be supported by a secretariat provided by KARI (para S. 7).
An amount of about US$4.0 mnillion equivalent would be provided from the IDA Credit to



- 23 -
fund the operations of the ARF. KARI would deposit from the IDA Credit to the
Paymaster General (PMG) account for the ARF, an amount not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent, to cover eligible expenditures. A manual of ARF policies, organization, and
procedures has been adopted by KARI's Board (para. 7.2h). The manual would not be
substantially modified without the prior agreement of IDA and other concerned donors.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the ARE policies, procedures and core
membership of its management committee would not be changed without the agreement of
IDA (para. 7. 1h).
Seeds Program
4.24  Pilot Seed Program. The availability of good quality seed and planting materials
has been a major constraint to exploiting the country's agricultural potential. Although
many initiatives have been undertaken, a viable national seed system has not yet emerged.
A program to establish such a system has been prepared by a task force on seeds
appointed by MALDM. The task force has recommending appropriate policy guidelines,
legislation and regulations and defined the respective roles of the public and private
sectors. Based on these recommendations, KARI would develop a plan for implementing
a pilot seed program involving the formal and informal seed production and distribution
sectors. The pilot seed program will provide insights into the implementation of the
recently issued seed liberalization policy of the Government.
4.25   The main feature of the program is the production of breeder and foundation seed
by financially-autonomous FSUs at selected KARI centers, while commercial seed will be
produced by the private sector (both formal and informal). A National Seeds
Development Committee (NSDC), expanded in membership to include all important
stakeholders and with MALDM in an advisory role, will guide the development of the
seed system. Quality assurance will be provided by MALDM through the National Seed
Quality Control Service. KARI will strengthen its basic/foundation seeds multiplication
program through the establishment of the organizational structure, including the
appointment of a full-time manager of the Seed Coordination Unit. Start-up activities for
two pilot Foundation Seed Units (FSUs) will be initiated upon appointment of the
manager. Additional FSUs would be established during the course of the project. KARIs
establishment of arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for the organizational
structure of the Seeds Coordination Unit, including the appointment of its Manager,
would be a condition for Credit effectiveness (para. 7.2c).
4.26  The project would support the seeds program by providing seed processing and
other field equipment, vehicles, training and technical assistance, and financing of
incremental operating costs. The Government's Macroeconomic and Structural Policy
Frameworkfor 1995-1997) and the Letter of Sectoral Policy on Agricultural Research
(para. 2.10) recognize the need to improve the seed industry in operation in Kenya. The
Letter of Sectoral Policy on Agricultural Research was provided to the Association by the
Government during negotiations. Among the actions which have been taken by the
Government in this regard are: (i) full liberalization of the seed sub-sector, and (ii) the



- 24 -
issuance of a policy statement allowing for production and trade of all seeds and planting
materials by MALDM-approved seed producers and traders. Actions still to be taken by
the Government include (i) establishment of financially self-sustaining seed units at KARI
research centers based on the sale of breeder and basic/foundation seeds to private sector
seed companies and farmer seed producers, and (ii) improvement of public plant
quarantine services to facilitate the import and export of seeds. The latter would involve
the establishment of the Kenya Plant Health Inspection Service (KEPHIS) under the
MALDM and transfer of the plant quarantine service from KARI to KEPHIS. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that KEPHIS would be established, and seed certification
would be optional for the informal seed sector, particularly for farmers who exchange
seeds on a non-commercial basis (para. 7. li).
D. PROJEcT COST AND FINANCING
4.27   A summary of estimated project costs is presented in Table 4.1. (Details of project
costs are given in Annex 2.) A physical contingency of 10 percent has been added to the
base cost of fixed investments. The international price contingency is based on the Index
of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports, and the contingency for domestic prices is based
on the projected inflation rate.3 A constant purchasing parity exchange rate has been used
to convert domestic costs into US$ equivalent (with Kenya's liberalized exchange rate
regime, this assumption is considered appropriate). All costs are net of duties and taxes.
3 For international prices, the projected inflation rates are 1.8 percent for 1996, 2.6 percent for 1997,
and 2.5 percent for 1998-2000; for domestic prices, the rates are 7.5 percent for 1996 and 5 percent
thereafter.



- 25 -
Table 4.1 Project Cost Summary
(K.Shs. Million)           (USS Million)
Local  Foreign    Total      Local Foreign Total % Foreign % Total Base
Exchange     Costs
A. Institution Building
Research Management                    2,845.2    293.2  3,138.4      63.2    6.5  69.7    9            42
Financial Management                      25.7      18.6     44.3      0.6    0.4   1.0   42             1
Human Resource Development                30.7    105.9    136.6       0.7    2.3   3.0   78            2
Jnformation Systems                       47.0     60.1    107.1        1.0    1.3  2.4   56             1
~~~~~~~~~...... i i .K ...............................i........................................................................................................................................ ..... ........................................................... 
Sub-total Institution Building         2,948.6    477.8  3,426.4      65.5   10.6  76.1   14            46
B. Research Programs
1. Regional Research                    288.2    301.7    589.9        6.4    6.7  13.1   51            8
2. Commodity/Factor Research
Crops                                486.2    517.6  1,003.9       10.8   11.5  22.3    52           14
Livestock and Animal Health          411.6    597.6  1,009.2        9.1   13.3  22.4   59            14
Natural Resources Management         229.7    361.5    591.1        5.1    8.0  13.1   61            8
Socioeconomics                        58.5    196.5    255.0        1.3    4.4   5.7   77            3
...........................................I..............................................................................................................................................................................  . .
Subtotal Commodity/FactorResearch  1,186.1   1,673.2  2,859.2      26.4   37.2  63.5    59           39
3. Agricultural Research Fund            178.7     10.5    189.2       4.0    0.2   4.2    6            3
Sub-total Research Program             1,652.9   1,985.4  3,638.3     36.7   44.1  80.8   55            49
C. Seeds Program                            112.8    209.3    322.1        2.5    4.7   7.2   65            4
Total BASELINE Costs                      4,714.3  2,672.5  7,386.8    104.8   59.4 164.2   36             100
Physical Contingencies                   223.8     96.8    320.6       5.0    2.2   7.1   30            4
Price Contingencies                      873.1    391.3  1,264.4       6.0    2.6   8.7   31            5
Total PROJECT Costs                       5,811.2  3,160.6  8,971.8    115.8   64.2 179.9   36             110
4.28    The total project cost is US$179.9 million equivalent, including physical and price
contingencies of $7.1 and $8.7 million, respectively. The IDA Credit which would be
passed on by the Government as a grant to KARI would be SDR 27.4 million (US$39.7
million equivalent), of which $14.9 million would be for institution building, $20.6 million
for research programs and $4.2 million for the seed program. The signing of the Grant
Agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 7.2a). The Government
of Kenya would provide US$70.4 million equivalent of which about $64.7 million would
be for institution building (of which $58.0 million would be for salaries), $5.0 million for
research programs and $0.7 million for the seeds program. The private sector is estimated
to contribute US$6.9 million equivalent to finance research programs in cotton,
horticulture, rice, sugar and pyrethrum. Other donors (EU, GON, UK/ODA, SIDA and
USAID) have committed to provide the rest of the required financing of about US$62.9
million equivalent. In order to ensure sustained technology generation and dissemination,
the Governrment would finance an increasing proportion of incremental operating costs,
rising from 25 percent in the first year to 50 percent in the fifth year of the project period.
An assurance was made by the Government that its contribution to project financing
would be provided in a timely manner, in accordance with the annual work plans and



- 26 -
related financing plans. A summary of the financing plan is presented in Table 4.2, details
are given in Annex 2.
Table 4. 2 Financing Plan (US$ Million)
Project Components    IDA    Other  Private    Kenya
Donors  Sector  Governmnent    Total
A. Institution Building    14.9    4.6      -        64.7       84.2
B. Research Programs       20.6   55.4    6.9         5.0       87.9
C. Seed Multiplication      4.2    2.9      -         0.7        7.8
Total                      39.7   62.9    6.9        70.4      179.9
E. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
4.29  IDA guidelines for procurement would be followed on the use of IDA funds
regardless of the percentage of financing provided by IDA for a particular procurement
package. Procurement financed by other donors would follow the procurement
procedures of those donors. The Bank's standard bidding and contract documents would
be used for all International Competitive Bids (ICB) and consulting services. Procurement
of works, goods, and services would be in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995); consultants would be
retained in accordance with the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (August, 1981). The allocation of project cost and IDA financing by
procurement method is presented in Table 4.3.
4.30  Civil Works. Contracts estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more, aggregating up
to US$3.0 million, would be procured through ICB; below this level, aggregating up to
US$4.2 million, through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Civil works to be
constructed under the project would be facilities and improvement of access roads at
KARI research centers and headquarters. Consulting firms to be appointed by KARI
would supervise all engineering, design and construction of these works.
4.31   Goods. Equipment consisting of office, laboratory and field equipment, audio
visual and radio equipment, survey instruments, computing equipment, and vehicles would
be procured through ICB. These equipment would be grouped into cost-effective
packages of US$100,000 or more to an aggregate amount of US$5.7 million). Contracts
estimated to cost below US$ 100,000 to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 would be
procured through NCB. Items including scientific consumables (reagents, test tubes,
flasks, etc.), office firniture and small items of equipment packaged in contracts of
US$20,000 or less, and not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$500,000 would be
purchased through International/National Shopping procedures in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Eligible domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference of up to
15 percent CIF price according to IDA procurement guidelines. All ICB procurement will
require IDA's prior review. NCB procurement over US$100,000 equivalent for goods
and US$500,000 equivalent for civil works is also subject to prior review by IDA.



- 27 -
National or International Shopping will be subject to SOE disbursement procedures and
IDA's ex-post review in the field (para. 4.38). Contract documentation will be selected
for ex-post review at random during supervision missions.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
Items               ICB       NCB       Other    NBF        Total
1. Civil Works                      4.0        5.6       0.6       3.7      13.9
(3.0)     (4.2)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (7.2)
2. Vehicles                          2.2       0.0       0.0       5.2       7.4
(2.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (0.0)     (2.0)
3. Plant and Equipment               4.4       0.6       1.4       4.2      10.6
(3.7)     (0.5)     (0.5)     (0.0)     (4.7)
4. Training                          0.0       0.0       6.0      14.6      20.6
(0.0)     (0.0)     (6.0)     (0.0)     (6.0)
5. Consultants                       0.0       0.0       2.2      16.8      19.0
(0.0)     (0.0)     (2.2)     (0.0)     (2.2)
6. Agricultural Research Fund        0.0       0.0       3.5       0.2       3.5
(0.0)     (0.0)     (3.5)     (0.0)     (3.5)
7. Operatmig Costs                   0.0       0.0      14.0      90.7    104.7
(0.0)     (0.0)    (14.0)     (0.0)    (14.0)
TOTAL                               10.6       6.2      27.8    135.4      179.9
(8.7)     (4.8)    (26.2)     (0.0)    (39.7)
Notes: Figures in () are the respective amounts to be financed from the IDA Credit.
NBF: Not-Bank financed (financed by GOK, EU, ODA, GON, USAID, private sector).
Others: Local shopping, procedures for recriitment of consultants and for training, etc.
4.32   Consultant Services and Training. Terms of reference for all consultant services
would be subject to prior review by IDA. When the estimated value of the contract
exceeds US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals, selection procedures, short
lists, and draft contracts also would be subject to prior review. The list of long-term and
short-term consultants required for project preparation/implementation support and
capacity building is given in Annex 9. Two long-term consultants, for the seed program
(36 person months) and for farming systems research (24 person-months) would be
required. The rest would be short-term consultants of not more than 9 person months
duration. Whenever possible, contracts for consultancies would include reference to
training of counterparts. Foreign and local training will be procured by KARI subject to
agreed procedures according to a training master plan requiring approval by IDA. In- -
service training would be emphasized, including short-term courses in priority areas such
as research management, research center operations, research methodology, specially for
socioeconomic research, and monitoring and evaluation. Support for a small number of
post-graduate degree training, largely to the MSc degree at local universities also would
be provided.



- 28 -
4.33  Agricultural Research Fund Contracts. Adaptive research proposals would
generally cost less than US$40,000 equivalent but the ARF could provide research grants
of up to a maximum of US$ 100,000 equivalent. Research grants would finance operating
costs with the exception of building maintenance, and for hiring equipment, e.g. tractors
for land preparation. Disbursements from the ARF will be through a PMG account
established for the purpose (paras. 4.23 and 4.40). Guidelines for the ARF are given in
the ARF Manual approved by KARI's Board of Management. The main features of the
ARF are provided in Annex 10.
4.34 Annual Procurement Work Program and Procurement Monitoring. An
overall Annual Procurement Work Program (APWP) would be prepared by KARI by
April 1 of each year, in consultation with research centers which would implement the
project. The APWP would contain details with respect to each research center on: (i)
items to be procured and expenditure category; (ii) procurement packages; (iii) estimated
cost per package; and (iv) the implementation schedule for procurement. The training
plan, including budget, implementation schedule and other details would be incorporated
as part of the APWP.
4.35 KARI would prepare a Semi-Annual Procurement Progress Report (SPPR) to be
submitted within 30 days after the end of June and December. IDA shall provide KARI
with a suitable format for reporting procurement of works and goods during the project
launch workshop. The SPPR would inter alia contain the following information:
a)    Awarded contracts: (i) project component or subcomponent, (ii) contract
number and date, (iii) method of procurement, (iv) name of country of the
successful bidder, (v) value and currency of the contract, (vi) major
expenditure category, and (vii) expected and actual date of contract
completion, or expected and actual date of receipt of goods.
b)    Procurement in process: (i) project component or subcomponent, (ii)
procurement package and total funds allocated, (iii) planned and actual
dates of inviting bids, (iv) date of opening of bids, (v) date of planned and
actual submission of bid evaluation report to IDA, (vi) date cleared by
IDA, and (vii) date of award of contract, name of contractor, supplier or
consultant and value of the contract.
c)    Procurement processing time. At negotiations, standard processing time -
for procurement activities was agreed upon with GOK and incorporated in
the APWP.
4.36  Procurement Review. The IDA Credit would finance around 44 percent of
works, 33 percent of goods and equipment, and 21 percent of consultant services and
training, requiring prior review by IDA. Prior review by IDA is required for civil works
contracts estimated to cost over US$500,000 equivalent and for goods, over US$100,000
equivalent. All sole source contracts would be subject to prior review by IDA, regardless
of the amount of the contract. This review would be supplemented by the annual audit



- 29 -
which will review procurement practices, a comprehensive examination at the nid-term of
the project, and random reviews during supervision. A list and schedule of important
contracts for works, goods, and consultant services is given in Annex 5.
F. DISBURSENENT
4.37   The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 27.4 million would be disbursed over a period
of 5 years, with an expected project completion date of December 31, 2001 and a closing
date of June 30, 2002. The schedule of estimated disbursements is based on the standard
profile for Kenya agriculture investment operations and is summarized in Table 4.4 below.
Details are given in Annex 2.
Table 4.4 Summary of Disbursement Schedule
Amount of Credit             Percent of Financing
(IS$ million)
1. Civil Works                    7.1       90 percent.
2. Vehicles, Plant and            6.8       100 percent of foreign costs and 90 percent of local
Equipment                                costs.
3. Technical Assistance           2.2       100 percent.
4. Training                       6.0       100 percent.
6 Agricultural Research Fund      3.5       100 percent.
7. Recurrent Operating Costs
Vehicles 0 & M                2.3      75 percent.
Building 0 & M                0.2      75 percent.
Other 0 & M                   8.4      75 percent
8 Refund of PPF Advance           0.7       Amounts due pursuant to DCA
9 Unallocated                     2.5
Total                            39.7
4.38   Disbursements would be against standard IDA documentation, except in the
following cases, for which statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be utilized: (i)
contracts for goods up to US$100,000 equivalent, (ii) contracts for civil works up to
US$500,000 equivalent, (iii) ARF contracts up to US$50,000 equivalent, (iv) foreign
training up to US$30,000, (iv) local training, and (v) operating costs. For consultant
services the SOE procedure could be used for contracts of up to US$100,000 equivalent for
firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals. SOEs would be certified by the Director of
Finance of KARI and the Director, External Resources Department of the Ministry of
Finance.



- 30 -
4.39  Supporting documentation would be retained by KARI for at least one year after
receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made.
This documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting
IDA staff upon request. Disbursements would be made in accordance with the Guidelines
for Withdrawal of Proceeds of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. For ARF Grant Contracts
which do not fall under the SOE threshold, the initial advance would be used as
supporting documentation, with relevant documentation to be forwarded to the Bank by
KARI when available.
4.40  Special Account. To expedite the disbursement of funds, the GOK would
establish a Special Account for the Project to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures.
The authorized amount of the Special Account of the project would be US$2.0 million,
representing an average of three months expenditures. Withdrawals from the Special
Account would be replenished monthly in accordance with established IDA disbursement
procedures. The minimum withdrawal application size for replenishing the Special
Account would be US$200,000 equivalent, representing 10 percent of the initial deposit.
Documentation requirements for replenishment applications would be the same as
described in para. 4.38. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account
would accompany all replenishment requests. Recovery of the initial deposit would
commence within 6 months of the project's closing date or when the total unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit equals US$2.0 million or when the Credit remains inactive for more
than 6 months. Records of the Special Account proceeds and expenditures would be kept
by KARI. The Special Account would be audited in accordance with the project auditing
arrangements (paras. 5.11 and 7.2e). At negotiations, its was agreed that in the unlikely
event that the Special Account does not operate in a timely manner as envisaged and
implementation of on-going research programs is adversely affected, IDA and the
Government would immediately discuss the matter and take necessary remedial measures.



5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1   KARI would have primary responsibility for implementation of the project. Since
the project would support the entire second phase of KARI's corporate development
program, it would be implemented through KARI's regular institutional structure (without
a separate project unit). Coordination would be provided by the Director General,
through the Office of Donor Coordination. KARI's participation in the seeds program
would be guided by its Seeds Coordination Unit. Details on implementation arrangements
are provided in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 4). The implementation plan for
the first two years of the project was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
5.2   KARI operates under the general guidance of a Board of Management, which sets
policy and takes decisions on major operations on the basis of proposals submitted by
management. The Board is currently chaired by a representative of the seed industry and
is composed of 20 members: 12 ex-officio and 8 members appointed by MRTTT. Chief
executive responsibility resides with a Director General, who is assisted by a Director of
Research and a Director of Administration. Under the Director of Research is an
Assistant Director for Crops, an Assistant Director for Livestock and five other Assistant
Directors for disciplinary research areas who provide technical oversight. The Directors
of the NRCs report to the relevant Assistant Directors while Directors of RRCs report to
the Assistant Director for regional research (Charts I and 2). A Donor Coordination Unit
is being established in the Office of the Director General to serve as a focus for relations
with external financiers, integrated program planning and coordination. A Library
Documentation and Information Unit has been established to improve and oversee the
institute's information system. This organizational structure, as well as the functions,
procedures, duties and responsibilities of staff, and terms and conditions of service, are
specified in an Organization & Management Manual which is satisfactory to IDA. At
negotiations, assurance was given that KARI would operate in accordance with this
manual, which would be modified from time to time in agreement with IDA (para. 7. lj).
5.3   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of KARI's research activities is undertaken by
the M&E Team under the Director of Research. The broad objective is to have a system
which contributes to improving research management and accountability. Specific
objectives include: (i) identifying and prioritizing information needs of KARI management,
(ii) providing such information in a timely manner for decision making, (iii) addressing
social and gender issues, and (iv) documenting the relevant research results generated by
KARI and evaluating their effectiveness and impact on increasing the production and



- 32 -
incomes of smallholder farmiers. The socioeconomics unit will undertake the economic
and impact evaluation of research projects of the NRCs and RRCs.
B. RESEARCH PROGRAMS
5.4   Regional research to adapt technology for on-farm adoption in different agro-
ecological zones is carried out by the network of 10 RRCs. Each Research Center has a
Center Research Advisory Committee (CRAC) and a Center Technical Committee (CTC)
which ensure that research proposals are consistent with the national/regional priority
structure, respond to stakeholder needs, and are technically sound. The membership of
the regional CRAC comprise the RRC Director as chairman, and representatives of
farmers' organizations, NGOs, agro-industries and exporters, extension workers and staff
of the RRC. For NRCs, the CRACs are chaired by the relevant Assistant Director; they
have similar members as the RRC. Directors of relevant NRCs and RRCs are invited to
participate. Proposals approved by these committees are submitted to the Research
Coordinating Committee (RCC) at KARI headquarters for consideration. Applied
research on commodities, factors of production, and disciplines is undertaken by the
network of 15 NRCs (of which 5 are combined NRC/RRCs). KARI would prepare annual
work programs (AWPs), including procurement plans for funding by IDA. Assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the Annual Work Programs and related financing plans
would be submitted for review by IDA by March 15 of each year (para. 7. 1k).
5.5   Expanding on existing arrangements, and benefiting from experience with tea and
coffee, responsibility for research on other cash crops would be transferred to the private
sector over the course of the project. The private sector has now assumed responsibility
for sugar research, and that for pyrethrum, cotton, and oilseeds would be transferred in
accordance with agreed plans. In the case of staple crops, participation of farmers in on-
farm adaptive research would be expanded to include farmer groups and associations.
5.6   Various International Agricultural Research Centers (1ARCs) have operated
successful research networks across Africa which have facilitated researcher training, as
well as collaboration and information exchange with the national agricultural research
systems (NARSs). Collaborative arrangements with these IARCs and those activities
carried out under the auspices of the Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research
in Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA) are being incorporated into KARI's priority
research programs, according to the needs and to the contributions that these centers can
provide.
5.7   The Agricultural Research Fund is directed by the ARF Management Committee
(ARFMC), with members appointed by the KARI Board of Management. ARFMC is
chaired by the Director of KARI and is composed of two representatives from the private
sector, three from the research and university community, and two from the public sector.
The ARFMC sets guidelines for the operation of the ARF and approves grant awards
within the overall policy framework set by the KARI Board. A full-time Secretariat
located at KARI Headquarters will provide support to the ARFMC and manage day-to-
day operations.



- 33 -
C. SEEDS PROGRAM
5.8   The seeds program would be implemented within the framework of the National
Seeds Development Policy and under the guidance of the National Seeds Development
Committee (NSDC), chaired by MALDM and comprising representatives from the fornal
and informal seed sector, KARI and MALDM. The National Seed Quality Control
Service and the Kenya Plant Health Inspection System of MALDM would provide quality
assurance. KARI's participation in the program would be guided by its Seeds
Coordinating Unit and implemented by the Foundation Seed Units (FSUs) to be
established at selected RRCs. Commercial seed would be produced by firms and
individuals, using foundation seed procured from the FSUs or obtained from other
sources. Qualified farmers, farmer associations, and NGOs also would procure foundation
seeds from KARI and multiply these for sale as certified or non-certified seed.
D. KEY IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS INDICATORS
5.9   The overriding objectives of NARP II are to make agricultural research relevant
and to make scientists accountable for results. The elements to achieve this include the
expansion of the ARF, the reorganization of KARI, the introduction of operating manuals,
the evaluation of the performance of scientists, the nomination of key staff, the
implementation of a program-based accounting system, and the revision of research
programs to conform to priorities set. Project objectives would be translated into key
monitorable indicators for each year of project implementation (Annex 6). These would
include indicators for (i) development impact, e.g., adoption rate, yield increase, and client
participation; (ii) implementation progress, e.g., institution building, procurement, training;
and (iii) financial performance, e.g., Government funding, disbursement of IDA and other
donors, and KARI's financial management status. Progress would be tracked by KARI's
M&E Unit and reviewed through regular IDA supervision missions.
E. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND PROGRESS REPORTING
5.10 Accounting. KARI would maintain records and accounts in accordance with
Kenyan and international accounting standards. Separate accounts and records,
satisfactory to IDA, would be maintained for the ARF. Annual financial statements
(income statement, balance sheet, and cash flow) identifying project transactions would be
prepared for KARI and separately for ARF. The unaudited financial statements for both
KARI and ARF would be submitted to IDA within three months after the end of each
fiscal year.
5.11  Auditing. The accounts and financial statements (including the Special Account
and SOEs) for KARI and ARF would be audited in accordance with the Kenyan and
international standards on auditing, by independent auditors which in this case would be
the Auditor General (Corporations) or other private auditors, acceptable to IDA,
appointed by and operating under the supervision of the Auditor General (Corporations).
The audit reports, including specific references to the Special Accounts and separate



- 34 -
opinions on the SOEs and ARF, and incorporating management letters, would be
submitted to IDA within six months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 7. l).
5.12 Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review. Progress reports would be prepared
by KARI on a semi-annual basis, in accordance with the format contained in the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM), and submitted to IDA within 30 days of the end of each
semester. A mid-term review of project progress and impact would be undertaken by
KARI, IDA and other donors by December 1998. To facilitate this review, KARI would
prepare a status report of the project and submit it to IDA at least three months prior to
the date of the review. Three months before the closing date, the Government would
prepare and provide to IDA its own evaluation of the project, in accordance with agreed
guidelines.
F. SUPERVISION PLAN
5.13  A project launch workshop would be organized in March 1997, for which full
participation of all donors would be sought. This first workshop would include all
managers, including Program Heads and Center Directors. Immediately thereafter,
separate launch workshops would be organized at each research center, which would also
include key extension staff and members of the regional research advisory comnmittee. A
mid-term review would be carried out (para. 5.12). The focus of subsequent progress
reviews would be the research priority setting process, the implementation priority
research programs, the restructuring program (especially the reduction of non-essential
staff, redeployment of staff, and rationalization of the center network), the operations of
the Special Account arrangements, and functioning of the budget process, especially the
release of funds and provisions for recurrent operating costs. Expertise (local and foreign)
in agricultural research, institutional development, and financial management would be
incorporated into the joint progress review process, as appropriate. A detailed supervision
plan is given in Annex 11.



6. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. BENEFITS
Facilitating Overall Growth
6.1   The project supports the Government's development strategy and is well
embedded in IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Government has recently
completed a review of the Agricultural Sector which was done in conjunction with work
on an Agricultural Sector Memorandum by the Bank. The sector strategy that is evolving
clearly recognizes that rapid and sustained growth in agriculture is essential to ensure
continued overall economic growth, employment creation and poverty reduction. If these
objectives are to be achieved, Kenyan agriculture will have to undergo a structural
transformation of smallholder farms from a subsistence orientation to a farm enterprise
orientation; this would also require accelerating change in the mix of farming activities to
those which result in more value added per unit of land and labor. The role of research in
this process is crucial. The challenge is not just to maintain high growth rates in land
productivity, but rather to actually increase growth rates in yields without sacrificing the
long-term productive capacity of the natural resource base. There are already indications
that this capacity is being compromised in the highlands with nutrient losses significantly
exceeding nutrient inputs. Moreover, soil erosion has become a major problem in some
agricultural highland districts. The task is thus to intensify land use while enhancing the
long-term productive capacity of the soil and water resource base. This can only come
about through effective agricultural research that produces new technologies and practices
to meet the needs of Kenya's farmers; establishing a sustainable framework to allow this to
happen would be an important project benefit.
6.2   The macroeconomic and sectoral conditions are generally favorable to allow the
project to have a positive impact on agricultural growth. Kenya has maintained a
relatively stable macroeconomic environment over the past year and the benefits are
beginning to filter through to agriculture. In addition, domestic and international market
demand will remain buoyant for the main commodities produced domestically. From a
sectoral perspective the Government's agricultural strategy recognizes that an appropriate
policy environment which sends consistent and credible signals to the market has to be in
place and the Government has taken steps to complete the policy agenda (para. 2.10-
2.11). The Government's strategy also recognizes that the institutional framework has to
be readjusted and emphasizes that the reform of the operations of the public sector will
help to release resources that can be used for higher-priority tasks. Efforts to restructure
MALDM is already under way, being supported under ASMP II. A key element of the



- 36 -
Govenmment's strategy is the rationalization of the provision of support services in line
with the strategic directions for smallholder agriculture. Research is a key support activity
and this project is designed to assist in achieving the above aim.
Making Strategic Choices
6.3    A major achievement of NARP II would be to put in place a system in which
strategic choices on technology development can be made. The aim would be to focus
research undertaken by KARI using public funds to very specific areas largely limited to
basic food crops and livestock research. The rationale for establishing priorities would
clearly focus on supporting research largely of a public good nature for which private
sources of funds would generally not be available or are not available at the present time
as the industries have not yet developed. At the same time and over the life of the project,
the aim would be to transfer the burden for financing research on industrial/export crops
to the private sector, i.e., to industry associations and to the farmers themselves.
6.4   Following the above principle, KARI would continue to focus primarily on
commodities destined for domestic consumption, with responsibility for research on
export and other industrial crops, e.g. pyrethrum, sugar, cotton, being increasingly
assumed by the private sector. Even within food crops there is the recognition that while
agricultural growth will depend on increasing the commercialization of agriculture, there
are crops that can increase the stability of food supplies, such as sorghum and cassava
particularly for the poor. Research aimed at enhancing food security would continue to
remain a public function.
6.5   The project will also aim to improve post harvest handling and processing. The
basic rationale here is that just decreasing the costs of production may not lead to
improved market prospects for a commodity. Developing new products (e.g., for
cassava), new processing methods (e.g., for sorghum, groundnut, and sunflower seed) or
new handling methods (e.g., for bananas and fruits and vegetables) may be as important as
improved production technology. The food processing industry in Kenya is still at a very
nascent stage of development and, therefore, is still unable to finance significant research
into these aspects. The project would investigate these issues on a commodity-by-
conmmodity basis and any promising developments would be made available to the food
processing industry for further development.
6.6   The third research focus supported by the project would be to examine the
extemalities involved with the agricultural strategy and to come up with mitigating
actions. Agricultural growth in Kenya depends on substantial increases in land
productivity. However, agriculture is an extractive industry, especially in terms of soil
nutrients. Extraction rates increase in direct relation to enhanced production, and the rates
of nutrient raining in Kenya are already high and unsustainable. The increased and
effective utilization of chemnical and organic fertilizer will have to be a key component of
future agricultural growth. Formulation of strategies to promote this, based on solid
research would be a major benefit of the project.



- 37 -
Economic Analysis
6.7    Evidence from ex-post analysis shows that investment in agricultural research, in
both developed and developing countries, generates high returns, exceeding 40 percent in
most cases.4 A Bank-organized cross-country comparison of East and West African
countries suggests that similar returns have been obtained in many of these countries. The
study concludes that investments in research are justifiable, particularly when coupled with
an ongoing extension effort. This conclusion is underscored by a study on the impact of
maize research across five African countries5, as well as by a study on the Kenyan6
situation; where the returns were 40 to 60 percent on maize, and 33 percent on wheat
research. The development of the dual purpose (for milk and meat production) goat in
Kenya showed that incomes of farmers growing these type of goats increased by as much
as 60 percent.
6.8    The calculation of an economic rate of return (ERR) for the project as a whole is
constrained by data limitations. The technology improvements that will be developed, the
rate and extent of their adoption by farmers, and the productivity and output gains due to
their application cannot be accurately predicted and are likely to vary significantly among
agroecological zones. Benefits from improved technologies could also be influenced by
external factors like the availability of agricultural inputs and the efficiency of the
marketing and distribution system. A limited economic analysis focusing on determining
the benefits from research on food grains ( maize, wheat, sorghum and millet) was
attempted as described below. The analysis confirms that the economic benefits from
research is considerable.
6.9   Full details of the economic analysis is provided in Annex 14. Benefits from food
grains research was assumed to accrue for the first time in Year 6, the year immediately
following the closing date of the project. The benefits were derived by assuming that
maize yields would increase from an average of about 1.0 ton per hectare to about 1.8
tons per hectare, in a ten year span; yields of wheat would increase from 2.0 tons to 2.3
tons per hectare, and yields of sorghum and millet would increase from 0.4 to 0.6 tons per
hectare. The adoption rate of improved food grains technology developed under NARP II
would increase from 2.5 percent in Year 6 to 37 percent in Year 10, and remain constant
thereafter. The adoption rates used in the calculations are quite conservative considering
that where hybrids/improved varieties have been introduced in Kenya, and seeds are
available, adoption rates of up to 90 percent have been observed. The assumed yield
increases are also conservative, representing less than 50 percent of yields in developed
countries and in researcher managed trials in Kenya. The incremental production of food
grains would substitute for imports, and is valued economically at US$180 per ton. It is
4   World Bank. 1981. Agricultural Research Sector Policy Paper, Washington, D. C.
USAID Africa Bureau. 1993. Maize Research Impact in Africa: The Obscured Revolution.
Washington, D.C., July 1993.
6 USAID. 1993. The Impact of Agricultural T'echnology in Sub-Saharan Africa. A Synthesis of
Symposium Findings. USAID Technical Paper No. 3, Washingtoni, D. C., June 1993.



- 38 -
further assumed that the incremental costs of production of the food grains would be
equivalent to 40 percent of the incremental value of production (value:cost ratio of 2.5).
6.10  The analysis shows that research on food grains would yield an ERR of 24 percent,
while the net present value ( NPV) of food grains research based on a 15 year cash flow,
discounted at the opportunity cost of capital, or OCC (12 percent), would amount to
about US$70 million. The ERR is robust under various sensitivity scenarios. The
switching values show that benefits from food grains research could go down by 61
percent or costs to increase by 155 percent and the ERR would still be equal to the OCC
or 12 percent.
6.11  The economic analysis shows that the overall ERR of the project, calculated by
allowing for total project costs (including the costs of cotton, oil crops, horticultural
crops, livestock and natural resource management research) and using only the benefits
from food grains research, would at least equal 15 percent. In this case the switching
values indicate that the benefits from all NARP II research could decrease by 18 percent
(assuming the highly unlikely event that (gross) benefits from other research would be nil)
or alternatively overall costs could increase by 22 percent, and the ERR would still be
equal to the OCC or 12 percent. Based on the above analysis, the economic benefits from
the project could be expected to be similar to the usual benefits resulting from projects of
this nature.
6.12  Clearly, management of the research program would have an impact on the
benefits from the project. An effectively run KARI, along with efficient resource flows to
support research in the high priority areas, a favorable policy environment and market
developments would naturally lead to high rates of return. A major focus of the project is
to enhance KARI's management capacity and transform it into a more effective institution.
This emphasis will increase the likelihood of the project providing these benefits.
B. EMPLOYMENT AND POVERTY IMPACT
6.13  The project will have an indirect long-term impact on income generation in rural
Kenya by assisting in putting in place a coherent agricultural development strategy. The
crop and livestock commodities that will be addressed by the project are those that are
grown by resource-poor, smaliholder farmers who constitute about 80 percent of Kenya's
population. Through the eventual adoption of improved agricultural production and farm
management techniques, the project will lead to increases in smallholder productivity and
farm output, thus generating additional income for farmers and their household members.
The project's focus on generating new and improved technologies for the sustainable
production of food and export crops by resource-poor smallholder farmers would
ultimately secure the food supply and increase incomes, and will therefore be an important
component of Kenya's poverty alleviation strategy. Most of the poor are in the relatively
high-potential areas where intensification of agriculture through research based
productivity growth is likely to take place, and thus where most of the poverty alleviation
will occur.



- 39 -
C. ENVIRONMENTAL LIPACT
6.14  This project has been given an environment assessment category C since its main
objective is environmental conservation while increasing crop and animal production to
meet the food needs of a growing human population. Priority is being given to soil and
water conservation research to protect the basic resources of agriculture. By increasing
productivity on existing farms, the project will lessen the need for farmers to
unnecessarily expand agriculture into marginal lands, which is usually accompanied by
serious degradation; it will also lead to less destruction of forests and water catchments. A
sustainable strategy to achieve improved soil fertility management would be developed.
Research on fertilizer use will concentrate on finding the most appropriate fertilizers for
the different soils and the correct application rates which will enhance environmental
conservation. A low-input strategy for pesticides would be developed, given the large
environmental and health concerns with increased emphasis on development of Integrated
Pest Management (IPM). In some situations, the use of chemicals may be eliminated
through new technology (e.g., immunization against East Coast Fever). The possible
danger of contamination of natural genetic materials through the introduction of exotic
materials will be minimized through assurance of the use of up-to-date technologies and
testing in controlled conditions before extrapolation. Overall therefore, NARP II's
environmental impact would be positive.
D. SOCIAL AND GENDER ISSUES
6.15  The project would promote awareness of the social and cultural dimensions of
development, including gender-related issues, through the involvement of the full range of
beneficiaries in the planning and implementation of research, to ensure that social, cultural,
and gender focus and concerns are reflected. Monitoring and evaluation of social and
gender-related issues will be carried out to ensure that relevant issues are considered and
that women, children, and other disadvantaged groups will benefit from technological
innovations introduced under the project.
E. RISKS
6.16  The macroeconomic and sectoral performance risks facing the project hinge on the
Government staying the course on the reform program. Progress is relatively steady and
outstanding macroeconomic issues as well as sector specific structural issues are being
addressed (paras. 2.6, 2. 7 and 6. 2).
6.17  The other main risks facing the project could be: (i) inadequate or unreliable
Government funding of non-salary operating costs; (ii) an ineffective Government
disbursement system; (iii) inadequate progress on KARI's transformation program into a
more effective institution, (iv) slow progress in focusing on the highest national research
priorities; (v) inadequate effort to incorporate farmer clients as full participants in the
research process; and (vi) the slow transfer of industrial crop research to the private
sector.



- 40 -
6.18 The Government funding risk would be addressed through firm Government
commitments on the allocation and release of funds in accordance with annual work plans
and related financing plans (para. 4.28), which would be monitored closely during
implementation. KARI is also in the process of finalizing a strategy of establishing
sustainable funding mechanisms to supplement the Government's budget allocation for
agricultural research. The Government disbursement system (particularly Special Account
management) is being addressed at the country level, and the Government has agreed to a
plan to accelerate disbursements. Some of the donors, the EU in particular, have
committed to finance the retrenchment program. KARI's plan for the rationalization of its
research center network is expected to face strong resistance, particularly from the local
officials who would not want research centers in their provinces to be closed down. In
this regard, KARI will continue to explore the possibility of transferring some of its
research centers to private sector producer/industry associations, as in the case of sugar
and pyrethrum.
6.19 Implementation of KARI's transformation program is already underway. The
Government's and KARI's commitment are reflected in the Letter of Sectoral Policy for
Agricultural Research (Annex 1) and in the agreed action plans. IDA's commitment to
supporting Kenya's agricultural research capability is a long-term one. It has to be
recognized that the objective of establishing a sustainable and effective research capability
would not be fully achieved by the end of the proposed project. Continued IDA support
would be required. Concerted efforts to make farmer clients full partners in research
through representation on research committees at local, regional, and national levels, and
especially through the farming systems approach introduced under NARP I. FSA would
be greatly expanded under NARP II.
6.20  Transfer of responsibility for research on industrial crops would be implemented
through agreed action plans, undertaken in the context of subsector development
programs prepared under the Second Agricultural Sector Management Project. Progress
on implementing the plans also would be accorded close attention during supervision.
F. SUSTAINABILITY
6.21  Currently, the total annual expenditure on agricultural research is around 2 percent
of agricultural GDP. This amount of expenditures is on the high side for sub-Saharan
Africa and underscores the emphasis placed on research in Kenya. In comparison,
research expenditures in the United States and Western Europe is well over 2 percent of
agricultural GDP. During the project period, the Governments is expected to contribute
US$8.7 million (or about US$1.7 million annually) for incremental operating costs. This
is within current budgetary allocations.
6.22  GOK finance about a third of the total cost of agricultural research and the balance
is currently financed by donors. The donor share of research financing is expected to
gradually decline over the years. At the end of NARP IL, GOK share of financing is
expected to increase slightly to 42 percent. However, continued donor involvement in the
financing of research is envisaged after NARP II. Initiatives being taken under the project



- 41 -
will attempt to reduce the fiscal burden of research expenditures by transferring the
financing burden to industry organizations in the case of industrial crops, retrenchment of
non-essential support staff, rationalization of KARI's research center network, and
expanding KARI's revenue base through the sale of seeds and planting materials of
improved crop varieties, animal breeds, and vaccines.



7. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. ASSURANCES AND AGREEMENTS
7.1   Assurances on Project Implementation:
(a)   KARI shall prepare and adopt, not later than 12 months after the effective
date, an implementation plan for the private sector financing of agricultural
research and eventually, its taking over full responsibility to carry out and
finance these research activities as appropriate; and that a full report on the
progress of these arrangements will be prepared and assessed at the mid-
term of the project (paras. 4.5 and 4.16);
(b)   The annual work plan and financial plan of the project for the first year of
the project was agreed and finalized (para. 4.6);
(c)   KARI will submit to the Association, it's plan for the rationalization of its
network of research centers which is on-going, not later than July 1997.
Implementation progress will be assessed during the mid-term review of
the project (para. 4.8);
(d)   The Government has approved KARI's proposed staff retrenchment plan
and has authorized KARI to seek the required financing of such plan. The
Government also agreed to allow KARI reallocate savings arising from the
retrenchment to augment KARl's annual operations and maintenance
budgets (para. 4.8).
(e)   After the first year of the project and every year thereafter, a
comprehensive review would be held, in cooperation with other donors, to
consider the annual work plan and the new financial procedures and
arrangements for the forthcoming fiscal year, and modifications in project
design or procedures would be introduced as appropriate (para. 4.9);
(f)    The Staff Performance Appraisal System was discussed and finalized
during negotiations (para. 4.10);
(g)   Soil and tissue analysis services is being provided on a full cost-recovery
basis, in accordance with agreed arrangements (para. 4.19);



- 43 -
(h)   ARF policies, procedures and core membership of its management
committee would not be changed without the agreement of IDA (para.
4.23);
(i)    KEPHIS would be established, seed certification would be optional for the
informal seed sector, particularly for farmers who exchange seeds on non-
commercial basis (para. 4.26);
(j)    KARI would operate in accordance with the agreed organization and
management manual, as modified from time to time in consultation with
IDA (para. 5.2);
(k)   The Annual Work Programs and related financing plans will be submitted
for review by IDA by March 15 of each year (para 5.4); and
(1)    The accounts and financial statements (including the Special Account and
SOEs) for KARI and the ARF would be audited by independent auditors
which in this case would be the Auditor General (Corporations) or other
private auditors, acceptable to IDA, appointed by and operating under the
supervision of the Auditor General (Corporations) (para. 5.11).
7.2   The following would be required as conditions for Credit effectiveness:
(a)   Grant Agreement between the Government and KARI (para. 4.28),
(b)   KARI has adopted a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to the
Association (para. 3.3and 4.23),
(c)   KARI establishes arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for the
organizational structure of the Seeds Coordination Unit, including the
appointment of its Manager (para. 4.25); and
(d)   Adoption of the ARF Manual (para. 4.23).
B. RECOMMENDATION
7.3   Subject to the above assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR
27.4 million (US$39.7 million equivalent) to the Republic of Kenya.



KENYA
Second National Agricultural Research Project
Center Linkage Organization
A     Director
General
|          cDirector  Et                                                       l                                                          Director
of Finance and                                                                                                                   Drco
Administration                                                                                                                 of Research
Assistant        Director        Director            Director         Director        Di rector        Director         Di rector       Director        Assistant         Director
Finance       Management        Resource           Economics        Production        Health        Management    Management           Research       Food Crops       and Industral
DNC             DNC              DNC              DNC               RDNC                            DNC
Animal          Animal                           Semi-arid        Mtwapa         Wheat and
-Accounting       Transport       Training                and             AnmlNutrition                    Dryland          Range                                          Mwea Terere
and Budget                             ~~~~~~~Evaluation  Production       Livestock        FarmingOise                                                                         .
Naivasha         Disease         Katurent        Management |   DR
F 1                                                               <                          r  Kakamega | 't         S       s |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DNC 
DNC                    ~~~~~DNC          DNC              EmuDNC                        Horticultural
General  Assets                        ~~~~~Library        Beet                                                                                                 rp
and Center   -anagement LPersonnel                LDocumentation L Research                                NAC        LArid RangeMazanThk
Account      and         Management                and             Center                           Muguga        Management           DCPastures
Maintenance                           Information         LanetMasbtKalDN
DNC                                       DNC~Kkaeg  Qalt  DNCa
Management        Supplies                                                                                 NR                                                  ult
Note: Technical Links exist between Centers through ADs                                                                                                                   L
L|   |                  M  ~~~~~~~~Pyrethrum  :3,
DNC = Director, National Center                                                                                                                                                                 rt
DRC = Director, Regional Center



KENYA
Second National Agricultural Research Project
KARI Headquarters Organization Structure
Finance~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a                               Board of                                               Reerc   n
DirectorofFinance                                                    anagementr
Administration                                                                                                                  Technical
Committee                                                                                                                     Committee
Director _
General         ---------------------------------------------------........
Directrof Fiac                                                                                                                      Director     |
and AdministraAon                                                                                                                  of Research 
Assistant       Assistant           Assistant        Assistant       Assistant        Assistant        Assistant       Assistant                         Assistant
Cif   Assistant        Director         Director            Director        Director         Director         Director        Director         Director        Assistant        Directorr
( I nternal )|  Director       Estate          Human                Socio-          Animal           Animal        Soil & Water       Range           Regional         Director       Horticultural   Secretariat  Coordination   4-
Finance      Management         Resource           Economics        Production        Health        Management    Management           Research       Food         Crops and I
Cost                                               Monitoring      Codntr           Coordinator      Soil Fertility                                    Coordinator     Coordinator
Accounting      TransPOrt    -Training                   and           Codntr           Tick Borne   -and Plant          Coordinator      Coordinator   - Cereals          Horticulture
and Budget                                            Evaluation          Dairy          Disease          Nutrition
General         Assets                                                                                                                                                   Coordinator
and Center     Management       Personnel        LDocumentation    Coordinator         Coordinator      Coordinator                                       Coordinator      industrial
-  Account  | n       and         Management                and            Others           Others     L    Others                                       L    Others      L    Crops
Maintenance                           Information
Procurement
L    Cash       L     and
Management        Supplies
cri



- 46 -
Annex I
REPUBLIC OF KENYA                Page   of 9
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE
Telegraphic Address: 22921                      Office of the Minister
FINANCE - NAIROBI              27t9se9SNs+}P.O. Box 30007
FINANCE - NAIROBI                                        NAIROBI 2~1 Nll
Telephone: 338111                                                NAIROBI
When replying please quote     e                                   KENYA
Ref. No.. EA/FA 62/189/012/D(107)                   20th February, 1996
and date
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear f(i k
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY   NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH PROJECT PHASE II (NARP II)
The agricultural sector continues to be the backbone of
Kenya's  economy.   The Government  attaches  high priority to the
sector's role in promoting growth, reducing poverty and conserving
the  environment.    This  letter  highlights  the  sector's  main
constraints and the Government' s strategies to address them with
soecific attention to actions that will facilitate the development
oa,  new  technologies  for  agricultural   production  and  their
dissemination to farmers.   The strategies  outlined here will  be
used by the Government to underpin the design and implementation of
the proposed joint-donor assisted Second National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP II), and the Agricultural Sector Investment
Project (ASIP) as well as all other donor-supported projects.
Background
Kenyan Agricultuire's Recent Performance and Future ProsDects
In  recent  years  Kenyan  agriculture  has  not  achieved  its
optimum potential.  The growth rate averaged 4.7 percent per annum
between 1960 and 1970 but declined to 2.7 percent per annum between
1970 and 1982.  It picked up again to 3.8 per cent per annum in
1982 to 1988, but was barely positive in 1991 and turned negative
in 1992 and 19993.  In the last two years, however the growth rate
has increased  to over 3.5  per  cent  per annum.   Private gross
capital formation in agriculture fell by 0.4% in the 1980, and even



- 4,7-
- 47 -                     Annex 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP 1I         Page 2 of 9
furzher by 3. 1% o.a. in the early  1990 to 1993.  It  3, nGoweVer
eaxec7ed to ircrease as the economi_ growth did in 1934. arc 1395
Tnese fluctuations are explained by subcivision of cultivarec areas
a'c climatic var-ao!ilty, but  sustainea agricultural grzw:n was
suoseQuently  maintained  primarily  througn  the  introcuction  of
te-hnological  change  emoodied  in  release  and  adootion of  new
varieties, relazed technologically packaged and improved farming
oractices.   ine siow growth  in agr,cultural  GOP anc continuing
Casirvestment ,n the sector has hac signifi,cant repercussisns on
agriculture's  zontr,bution  to  overall   economic  gr.wth.    As
agr,culture's con:ribution to GOP growth declined, so aic overall
economic growt' wnich in tne 90's has been well below -ne rate of
poculation increase.  Consecuently, average incomes have fal len and
the incidence of ooverty has almost certainly increasea.  Without
greater investment in agriculture, it is unlikely that the economy
will grow as fast as desired in order to reduce poverty.
The Government expects the economy to grow at a rate of about
7 oercent annually between  1996 and 2000 to provide sufficient
emPloyment for tne growing labour force.  This rate of growth has
to be underpinned by at least a 4.4 percent per annum growth in
agricultural procuction and a 1.5 -percent annual growtn in labour
productivity.   Threse  targets  have  not  ceen  acnieved and  the
clallenge is even greater now. The choices are very clear.  Unless
agriculture gets rack on a sustainec growth path of between 4-5
p-rcent oer year, it will be very cifficult for Kenya to grow at a
rate f"ast enough to arrest tne decline in per capita income, create
suftic,ent   emplcyment  opportunities  ana  make  a  signirhcant
contribution towards oover:y reduction.  Furthermore, unless farm-
leval procuctivi-y and incomes are raisea, tnere wil1 corninue to
oc  out-rnigratiorn  to the frag-ile  aril  and  semi-arid areas thus
contributing to environmental degradation of these marg nal lands.
Another asoect is that relatively low farm incomes encourage rural
u-oan migration of people in search of employment, a trend which
may fuel social upneavals.
The  Government  is convinced  that  the  agricultural  growth
challenge can oe met as observec by the grcwth- of the sector in
1994 and 1995.  Althougn the sectcr has consicerable potential for
growth, wide tecnnolo9y gaps exist  and there  is scoce to raise
cuzout by increasing the use of imcroved inputs and there are,
also, ample opcoftunities for prcauctive investment.
Significant potential also remains for tne diversification of
the sector from  low to higher value commodities.   The future,
tnerefore,   1ies  in  transforming   smallholder  farms  from  a
suzsistence  orientation  to  a  farm  enterprise  orientation  by
accelera ing the change in the mix of farming activities to those
W-ich aad more value per unit of land and labour.
Trere  1s limited scope  for scatial  agricultural  expansion



- 48 -
Annex 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP II    Page 3 of 9
witlnou  causing severe environmenral damage.  The two main ooricns
ror  agr cuitu aI  growth   are  tnrougn    intensification    and
civersirica.ion   into hicher  value  commcd.ties.   Amongst  the
industrial/ex:orr crops,  tea. hort culture and coffee offer tne
greates7 wotential.  In the food crops sector, maize and potatoes
o-7er a similar ococrtunity while in the liivestocx sector cairying
couic easily be the front runner.   These are the main areas rhat
can zicome imoortan: sources of grcwth in the medium term.
Minor cereals, while being importan. crops from a food self-
su-f,ciency coint of view,  are unlikely  to make a significanz
conrributior to growth and the livestock sector, beef procuct.on
will  contirue to keep pace with population  increase and rising
incomes.  Poultry can also become arn.mportant supplementary source
of cash  income  for smailholder  farmers.    In all  these areas,
technology  generation  and  dissemination  to  ena users  is more
critical now than even before.
National Agricultural Research Proiect
The croCosed NARP  II is the seconc in supoort of Kenya's
National Agricul;ural Research Programme,  in follow-up to NARP I
(Credit  1 aL9-KE),  curing  wnich  the  Inrernational  Develooment
Association (IDA), The European Union (EU), the Government of t'Le
Netnerlancs  (GoN),  the  Unitea States  Agency  for  International
Develooment (USAID), the Overseas Development Administration (OOA)
of t.e United Kingdom, ano several orher donors provided assistance
to the Government for programme implementation.  NARP I's primary
objectives were to: (i) focus on prioriLy research programmes with
a slgrnifcant  ikelihood of high ana early returns to investments;
('i)   cevelop   technologies   that   contribute   to   increasad
productivity,  particularly  of  smallho'dings;   (iii)  intensify
orocucer  participation  in research  programme  formulation; (iv)
encourage cooperation between KARI and other institutions involved
in agricultural  research;  and  (v)  strengthen  linkages  between
research and extension.  The strategy to achieve these goals was to
reorganize agricultural research into a single Kenya Agricultural
Research  Institute (KARI)  and to  support  the Institute in the
implementation of the -fARP.
The first phase objectives have been largely achieved.  NARP
T laid the institutional foundation for agricultural research in
Kenya.  KARI has been established as a semi-autonomous institution
with  its own Board and nas  responsibility  for publicly-funded
agricultural research wnile coffee and tea research is organized
through foundations financed by growers.   Donor coordination has
been greatly improved.  KARI's accounting systems were reorganized
and  computeri_ed.    An  improved  Scheme  of  Service  has  been
ir:roducec ifor scientific staff ana staff training programme has
been very effective.



- 49 -                         Annex 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP II        Page 4 of 9
A  networx  o f  Research  Centres  has  been  set  uD  wi th
resoons1bility for both strategic anc acapt ve researcn; and for
research extension linkages.  An Agricultural Research Func (ARF),
,financec   througn   Government,  donor   and   private  incustry
contrioutions,  was  established  to  encourage   contract   and
colIaoorative research.  For imoortant crops such as maize, sorghum
and po,tao, KART now has considerable  on the shelf  technology in
terms or  imoroved  varieties  and  better  cultivation  prac ices;
imoortant achievements have also been mace in the areas of animal
procuc:ion and health and soil and water management.
Looking aneac, tnere is a continuec and urgent need to remove
policy barriers to the adoo.ion of new tecnnologies.  In aadition,
notwithstanding the areas of progress under NARP r, suoport to the
national agricultural research system requires to be continued and
increased  to  maintain  the  momentum,  address  newly  emerging
priorities,  and solidify agricultural  research funding including
financing by bringing in the private sector.
Several  on the shelf  technologies nave not been adequately
tested  and  evaluated  by  farmers  for  their  relevance  and
acooTabili:y.   In other cases the delivery system (e.g for seeds
and orner planting materials) are inadequate and require further
wo r k .
The  most  serious  challenge  under  NARP  I has  been  the
d,i-fficulty for tne Government to orovide funds to KARI in a timely
fashion and in the required amounts, according to the established
pr,orities anc work plans.  Problems were also encountered due to
.nsufficient  adootion  of  imoroved  technologies  developed  by
research.  All these will be addressed in NARP T I. In addition the
terms and conditions of service for research staff require further
imorovemnent with special recognition of research impact.
NARP II is therefore being designed to especially suoport an
intens7fied effort towards technology development and adaptation to
soecific  agro-ecological  and  socio-economic  environments  and
improvement of the technology delivery systems.  An important focus
of  NARP  II will  be on fostering  the timely  availability  and
efficient use of all av'ailable financial resources for agricultural
research.
Strategies and Plans
The Government of Kenya has been implementing an economic
reform programme whose main objective is to reduce poverty through
restoration  of  sustainable  growth.        As  in  the  past,  the
agricultural sector is expected to provide the main imPetus for
e-onomic  and  social  growth  and  develoPmen..    The key policy
soJeczives include the need to achieve and maintain internal food



- 50 -
Annex 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP II         Page 5 of 9
self-sufficiency  ir, basic  roocs.  emoloyment  creai,--,  income
genera ion and the earning of forei gn exc.narge.
W,LIn subsIantial deregulation of the domestic mra,'e: ,or all
aqriculturai commodities achieeved in the easz three years, these
cijec Ives will be oursued under a liberali:ed system ir Nnich the
2rivate secror will play a greater role in orocuction, marketing,
distrioution ana processing as wel, as in agricultura  research.
Government effor.s will concentrate on the crovision of a concucive
environment  witnin  which  the  pr,vate  sector  can cs-elcp  and
,4lourish and aiso on the celivery of goods and services to help
Oromote  and  fac itaae development  activi:ies.   The Government
will, therefore, con.inue to dives- itself of puolic enterprises
wnnich  hitherto  dealt  with  the  marketing  and  processing  of
agricultural commodities. The latter includes the priva.ization of
various agricultural-based parastatals.
Consistent with these changes, the institutional s-ructure of
the Ministry of Agricultural, Livestock Development an: Marketing
(,MALOM) is being reformulated; the role, function ano structure of
MALOM is in the orocess of being substantially re-designec; and the
role  of   cooperatives  in  the  production   and  mar<ezing  of
agricultural  commodities  is being  re-examsned.   The Government
* ntends that by end of 1997 MALOM's activ ties will fzcus on the
core agricultural  services of suu3ort to adaptive research,  the
orovision of effective extension, essential quality control and
otner  regulatory  resoonsibilities.    Over  the medium term,  the
Government intends to comolete the policy reform ano institutional
restructuring agenda with the view  to accelerating agricultural
growth and productivity, thereby increasing rural incomes and rural
off-f,arm employment.
The  Government  continues  to  place  great  emonasis  on  the
Imoortance of agricultural technclogy generation, ceve'ooment and
Gissemination.  The Government, therefore,  recognizes .ne role of
KARI as crucial to accelerated  cevelopment.   Consecuently,  the
Government is committed to ensuring that KARI will operate in an
environment  conducive to  effective  and  efficient execution  of
agricultural  research  programmes,  including  the  provision  of
adequate operation and-maintenance recurrent funds in a timely and
cepencable  manner.   The Government  is  also  committed  to  the
maintenance of attractive terms anc conditions of service for staff
through regular reviews in order to retain a highly qualified and
croductive human resource in the agricultural researc., service.
To  achieve  impact  of  research  on  imoroved germclasm,  the
Government considers it essential that an effective ano efficient
national system for the multiplication and distriburtin of seeds
and elan7ing materials is in place.  The Government also recognizes
-na- the seed ,ndustry in Kenya woulc benefit from increased but
carefullv rsqulatea comoetirion.   In order to have a competitive



- 51 -                         Annex I
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP II         Page 6 of 9
seed incustry in coeration in Kenya. the Government   n 1995, took
initial steps, rhrough cabinet decision tc:
i)   issue a :oIhcy statemer:  allcwing  fcr o c  - ion  and
trace of all seeds  (es?ecially  cereals)  ard  lanting
materials   by   a    plurality    of   MC,A,DM-aoproved
prooucers/zracers;
ii)  Iiberalize r.aie marketing of seeac/Ianting ma2. rals and
insti:ut-   careful   monitoring   mechanisms  .o  avoid
exploitazisn   of   farmers   either   tecnnicaMly   or
financially;
iii) establisn   financially   self-suooorting   breecer  and
foundation seed units in KARI centres, basec on the sale
of KARl's foundation and breeder seeds to Private sector
seed comoanies, farmer seec procucers besiCes the Kenya
Seed Comoany;
iv)  improve public plant cuaranzine facilities ;o facilitate
tne imocr. and export of seeds.  The resocnsibility for
seed insoection and certification will be assumec by the
proocsec Kenya Plant Health InsPecr-orare Service (KEPHIS)
as soon as the Service is establ shed;
v)   strengthan the researcn-sxtens.on-farmer cOllaborative
linkages, particularly the information feecoack mechanism
,rom far.mers to the research cent res and final research
programming, and
vi)  institute cost-sharing and recovery mecnanisms whereby
-he consumer of research  oroducts contri:uze funds to
meet KARr's requirements for ooerating and maintenance
expenses, for example, through collection of royalties,
levies/cess etc., basea on sale of commercial seed and
other planting materials.
With the current resource constraints,  the Government will
contin~ue to encourage KARI to give emphasis to the execution of
livestock,  crop and  factor  research  projects  that  are of  the-
highest national or,ority.  In the context of the procosed NARP II,
the Government has initiated a review of KARI and has caveloped an
action plan to streamline the Institute to allow it to implement
its mandate more effectively and efficiently.   Implementation of
this plan is scheduled to occur over the 1995-97 period.  This will
include a rationalization of the Research Centre NetworK, reduction
in  non-essential  staff,  re-deployment  of  staff,  and  greatly
imoroved funding of, non-salary research ocerating costs.  Before
July  5996, the Government will  strengthen and expand .he role of
KARI's  Agricultural  Research  Fund  (ARF)  in  the  financing  of
research  contracts". including ccllaborative researon with other



- 52 -                         Annex 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP II    Page 7 of 9
National and Inzer-ational Agricultural Research Centres f iARCs).
Tris is witn a view to enhancing team worK aimong s ake-nolcers and
iinkages with uni,ersities and IARCs amon- cthers.
ModalIties for ensuring the long term sust anab i -y of the
A RF wi 1  be exolo-ed.   The ARF Management  Committee will,  in
aid!tion  to KARP  management,  include  rec-esentation of  client
M,nistries,  the agricultural  faculties in local universi-,es ana
tne priva-e sector.   The ultimate purpose of t-is e'`or: is to
u ilize rne ava la le infrastructure ana human resource ca.acity
developed during NARP I more efficientlv.
KARI receives f-inancial resources for implementatior of its
programmes from Government, external donors (including grants-in-
aid from USAID, ODA, the Netherlands, UNOP,  JICA, SIDA, EU), and
the private  sector.   As a consequence  of  declining  budgetary
resources, the Institute needs to identify sources of funds and
mecnanisms from outside the Government and its present donors to
comolement  resources from *hese two sources ana, eventually,  to
srovice a more sustainable source of resar-ch funding.  KARI is
therefore  in the orocess  of shifting  resoonsibility  for  some
research work to the private sector througn a variety of mechanisms
sucn as cost-snaring,  contracting  and comocete transfer of the
resconsibility for research to approoriate commodity agencies.  The
Goverrment  strongly  supports  tris  search  for  new sources  or
agricultural research financing.  Similarly, the
Government is examining the status of various commodities with a
v,ew of instituting cost-sharing mechanisms to finance agricultural
researc.
The Action Programme
While much has been achieved througn Government and donor
assistance  to  Phase  I of  the  National  Agricultural  Research
Programme, the Government recognizes the need to provide further
support to KARI during Phase II of NARP.   This is necessary in
order to build on the achievements of NARP I and to effectively
respond to the continuing and emerging technology needs of an
increasingly  more complex  national  agricultural  sector.    The
Government wants to see the establishment of a strong and efficient
KARI poised to melt the production and develooment challenges of an
ecologically sustainable, stable gender-sensitive and profitable
agriculture in Kenya.
To bring this about, the Government will take the following
soeclfic actions:
i)   streamline the flow of resources so that adequate funds
reach KARI in a timely  manner.   In this regard the
Government will continue to monitor the flow of both GoK



-                           . Annex I
Letter of Sectoral Pol icy: NARP II    Page 8 of 9
ana conor funds to ensure smooth  (mplementa-ion of, the
project;
ii)  in each year, beginning  FY 1996/97,  recues- --3 WNorla
Bank to deccsiz within two weeks of the beg rein, of- eacn
quarter tre  quarterly  advances  o,f IDA  f ncs  in-o  a
project account w7 th Pay M1aster General;
iii) increase buogetary orovisions for recurrent agr-oult ural
research ocerating costs by at l east 1 0% p4  ^ ye ar  rom
the FY 1995/96 Printea Estimatas level over rne curation
of the project;
iv)  indicate to KARI by January 31 of each year the NARP r;
3-year forward budgetary commitments, beginr,nG 1996;
v)   allow KARI to reallocate salary savings aris ng from the
proposed retrenchment  and  attrition  of non-essential
staff to the oPerating budgets;
vi)  assis. KARI during NARP II to trans'fer rescors4b- Ity for
r,nancing of research concerning sugar, py-eznrum and
norticu zure to a significant extent (excee:ing 50%) to
.he concerned  private  sector  producer  anc crocessor
organizations   through   the   Kenya  Sugar  Autnority,
Pyrethrum Board of Kenya and Horticultural ,evelopment
Authority;
vii) institutionalize Plant Breeders  Rights privileges and
also establish instruments for collecticn c- levy from
seecs/planting materials that are aevelocec art tested
entirely by or in conjunction witn KARI and sc'c locally;
viii) transfer the KARI seed certification and plan: p_arantine
resocnsibiIities to KEPHIS (MALOM) as soon as the Service
is established.
Conclusion
In  recent years,  the Government  has  undertaken important
policy reforms which should promote growth and reduce cover.y.  It
is however, recognizea that substantial further progress is neeced
to meet the challenges of the 1990's.   This will reauire greatly
strengthened caoacity of the national agricultural research system.
The Government  believes  that  the  implementation  of the above
measures,  concurrent  with  ongoing  improvements  in the  policy
environment will bring about accelerated agricultural technology
development  and acoption  and hence  promote widespread  growth,
poverty reduction and the conservation of natural resources and
bic-diversity. The Government also believes tnat imolemnenza:ion of



- 54 -                         Annex 1
Letter of Sectoral Policy: NARP II        Page 9 of 9
the procosed second National  Agricultural  Research PrZJect  and
'urther strengmhening of the Kenya A4r,cultural Researcn Institute
will clay an imoortant role in realizing the intencec overall
aevelooment oojec.ives of the Kenya Government.
Yours   O 4.     ,
W. MUS                            P.
UtNrS          INANCE



Kenya National Agricultural Research Project Phase II (NARP II)
Components by Financiers (US$ '000)
IDA         Other Donors   Private Sector   Government          Total          For.    Local
Exch.   (Excl.
Amount  %       Amount  %       Amount  %      Amount  %        Amount   %                 Taxes)
A. histitution Building
Research Management                10,665.2  13.8   2,169.1   2.8    -     -      64,319.7  83.4    77,154.0  42.9   7,070.4 70,083.6
Financial Management                 536.3  50.0    536.3  50.0      -     -          0.0   -        1,072.6   0.6     441.6   631.0
Human Resource Development         2,638.8  78.9    705.9  21.1      -     -          0.0   1.7      3,344.7    1.9   2,592.0   752.8
Information Systems                 1,088.9  42.0   1,156.7  44.6    -     -         346.1  13.4     2,591.7    1.4   1,438.8  1,152.9
Sub-total Institution Building     14,929.1  17.7   4,568.0  5.4     -     -      64,665.8  76.8    84,163.0  46.8  11,542.7 72,620.2
B. Research Programs
1. Regional Research               7,045.6  49.3   4,995.6  35.0     -     -       2,238.5  15.7    14,279.7   7.9   7,219.7  7,060.0
2. Commodity/Factor Research
Crops                            5,462.5  22.3  10,645.6  43.5  6,957.2  28.6    1,436.1   5.9    24,466.1   13.6  12,524.8  11,941.3
Livestock and Animal Health      2,452.8  10.1  21,379.7  88.0     -     -        467.4  1.9    24,299.8   13.5  14,213.4  10,086.4
Natural Resources Management     1,152.7  8.0  12,932.7  90.1      -     -        271.9   1.9    14,357.3   8.0   8,708.4  5,648.9
Socioeconomics                     550.8  9.9   5,286.8  86.8     -      -        254.0  4.2      6,091.6    3.4   4,674.1  1,417.5
Sub-total Commodity/Factor Research   9,618.7  13.9  50,244.8  72.6  6,957.2  9.6    2,429.5  3.5    69,214.9  38.5  40,120.7 29,094.2
3. Agncultural Research Fund       3,970.3  88.4    222.9   5.0      -     -        298.6  6.6      4,491.8   2.5      257.0  4,234.7      , 
Sub-total Research Program        20,634.7  23.5  55,463.2  63.0  6,957.2  7.8    4,966.5   5.6    87,986.4  48.9  47,597.5 40,388.9          x
C. Seeds Program                      4,142.9  53.2   2,915.7  37.4    -      -        729.2   9.4     7,787.9   4.3   5,029.0  2,758.8       o
TOTALDISBURSEMENT                    39,706.7  22.1  62,947.0  35.0  6,957.2   3.6   70,361.6  39.1   179,937.2  100.0  64,169.2 115,767.9    W



Kenya National Agricultural Research Project Phase II (NARP II)
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers (US$ '000)
IDA                    Other Donors                    Private Sector               Government                   Total              For. Exch    Local
_________  _______  __________                                        _____                       ~~~~ ~~~~~(Excl.
Amount   %    Amount    %                                    Amount             %    Amount  %   Amount  %                                                   Taxes)
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                              7,201.2         51.6         2,773.0            19.9           1,156.6            8.3     2,824.7    20.2   13,955.6               7.8       4,187.8         9,767.8
B. Vehicles                                                 2,059.0         27.9         4,368.7            59.2             948.3           12.9        -           -        7,375.9          4.1       7,375.9           -
C. Plant and Equipment                                      4,701.1         44.5         4,226.9            40.0             625.4            5.9      1,012.7        9.6   10,566.1           5.9      10,566.1           -
D. Training                                                 5,972.6         29.0        13,913.1            67.5             721.6            3.5           0.0      -       20,607.3         11.5      16,486.3         4,121.0
E. Technical Assistance                                     2,231.6         11.7        16,591.2            87.2             199.5            1.0           0.0      -       19,022.3         10.6    17,120.3           1,902.0
F. Agricultural Research Fund Grants.                       3,505.5         95.2            176.9            4.8                   -                     -           -         3,682.3         2.0         -             3,682.3
...................................................................................   ...................... ................   ..... .... ..............    .. ..................   ....... .... ...............   ...... .... .........   ...................     ..... ........   ...............   .... .....   ...........  ..........
Total Investment Costs                                    25,671.0          34.1       42,049.8             55.9           3,651.4            4.9     3,837.5         5.1   75,209.6          41.8    55,736.5         19,473.2 l
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
A. Salaries and Emoluments                                    -             -            1,441.3              2.4              34.3           0.1   57,788.7    97.5   59,264.3               32.9          -           59,264.3
B. Vehicle Operations and Maintenance                       3,009.8         35.7         3,891.8            46.1             515.8            6.1      1,020.1       12.1      8,437.4         4.7       5,062.5         3,374.9
C. Building Maintenance                                        163.6         4.2            723.6           18.4             430.8           10.9      2,622.9    66.6   3,940.90              2.2         -             3,940.9
D. Other Operations and Maintenance
Travel and Per Diem                                     2,170.3         30.4         3,807.0            52.3              341.7           4.8         831.6      11.6      7,150.6          4.0         -            7,150.6
Equipment Operation and Maint.                           1,390.1        30.1         2,159.7            46.8              363.6           7.9        702.3       15.2    4,615.6            2.6         -            4,615.6
Utilities, Post and Telecom.                            1,628.3         51.7            529.5           16.8              158.0           5.0        834.1    26.5         3,149.9          1.8         -            3,149.9
Offices and Lab Supplies                                2,184.2         32.4         3,306.1            49.1              169.1           2.5      1,080.8       16.0    6,740.2            3.7       3,370.2        3,370.0
Casual Labor                                            1,380.0         36.1          1,392.6           36.4              394.5          10.3        658.5       17.2      3,825.6          2.1         -            4,825.6
Misc. Inputs                                            2,109.5         27.7         3,645.6            47.9              862.7          11.3        985.2       13.0      7,603.0          4.2         -            7,603.0
.................................................................................................. ................................................................................................................
Sub-Total other Operations &  Maint.                   10,862.4         32.8        14,840.5            44.9           2,289.6            6.9      5,092.4       15.4   33,084.9          18.4        3,370.2    29,714.7
Total Recurrent Costs                                     14,035.7          13.4       20,897.2             20.0           3,270.5            3.1   66,524.1    63.5  104,727.5               58.2       8,432.8    96,294.8                      M
.....................................  .............................................   ...........  ................  ..................... ...   ...................  .........................     ...........    ..................... ........     ...........     ........I'.......... ...........
rT7
0
TOTAL DISBURSEMEENT                                            39,706.71    22.1 1          62,947.0            35.0           6,921.9i           3.81 70,361.6i  39.1,179,937.2i  100.01  64,169.2  1115,767.91



Kenya National Agricultural Research Project Phase I (NARP II)
Project Components by Years -Totals Including Contingecies
Base Cost (K. Shs. 'millions)                                   Base Cost US$ '000)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total            1997       1998       1999      2000      2001      Total
A. Institution Building
Research Management                 763.5    816.9    728.4   753.1    804.5  3,866.4       16,706.0    18,284.4  14,885.6  14,424.1  15,093.0  77,154.0
Financial Management                 14.9     10.4      9.8     10.3      7.9     53.2        320.5       211.6     194.2     198.5     147.7   1,072.6
Human Resource Developnment          31.9     42.7    37.4    38.0       16.6    166.6        687.1       874.0     741.0     732.0     310.7   3,344.7
Information Systems                  37.5     29.2     25.2     21.8     14.3    128.0        805.6       597.6     499.3     421.0     268.2   2,591.7
Sub-total Institution Building      847.9    899.2    800.9    823.2    843.2  4,214.4      16,233.6    18,389.2  15,858.6  15,862.0  15,819.5  84,163.0
B. Research Programs
1. Regional Research                178.8    147.4   167.10    130.5    85.1    708.9        3,844.2    3,015.5   3,309.3   2,513.9   1,596.8  14,279.7
2. Commodity/Factor Research
Crops                             314.4    236.7   247.0   206.1    213.4  1,217.5         6,761.2    4,839.9   4,890.3   3,971.0   4,003.7  24,466.1            1
Livestock and Animal Health       392.0    256.4   209.8    195.2    144.5  1,197.8        8,430.0    5,244.0   4,145.4   3,760.4   2,711.1  24,299.8           _n
Natural Resources Manag.          175.6    119.0    149.8    140.9    131.6    716.8       3,775.8    2,432.6   2,965.8   2,714.6   2,468.6  14,357.3
Socioeconomics                     91.1     83.9    55.1      47.3     22.0    299.5       1,959.7    1,716.3   1,091.5     912.2     411.9   6,091.6
Sub-total C/F Research            973.1    696.0    661.6    589.5    511.4  3,431.6      20,926.7   14,232.8  13,102.0  11,358.2   9,595.2  69,214.9
3. Agriculturld Research Fund       22.3     39.6    73.5      56.3     35.3    227.0         479.2      810.2   1455.01    1,085.0    662.4   4,491.8
Sub-total Research Program        1,174.1    883.1    902.2   776.3    631.8  4,367.6       25,250.1    18,058.5  17,866.3  14,975.1  11,854.4  87,986.4
C. Seeds Program                      71.5     62.0    129.2    74.6      52.5    389.9        1,537.0    1,267.7   2,558.7   1,473.7    986.8   7,787.9
Total PROJECT Costs                 2,093.5  1,844.3  1,832.3  1,674.1  1,527.6  8,971.8     45,020.7   37,715.5  36,283.6  32,256.7  28,660.7  179,937.2
x
o
Fh



- 58 -
Annex 3
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP II)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA FY     Semester      Disbursement       Cumulative         % Total
Disbursement
1996        2               0.5              0.5                1
1997        1               1.2               1.7               4
2               1.2              2.9                7
1998        1               1.6              4.5               11
2               2.9              7.4               19
1999        1               3.1             10.5               26
2               1.6             12.1               30
2000        1               3.1              15.2              38
2               3.2             18.4               46
2001        1               4.7              23.1              58
2               3.2             26.3               66
2002        1               3.2              29.5              74
2               3.2             32.7               82
2003        1               4.7              37.4              94
2               1.6             39.0               98
2004        1               0.7              39.7             100



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP II)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
Guidelines for Format and Content
This document presents an outline for the preparation of the PIP. It is understood that the PIP
is organized on the project components and that the respective component-level implementation plans
are derived from the NARP 1I Project Implementation Manual (PIMj). Copies of both the PIM and PIP
are in the project file. Organizationally, each Component is the assigned responsibility of the Director
or Assistant Director overseeing the relevant Division or Unit of KARI. They have responsibility for
the more detailed implementation required within their respective areas.
1.    Purpose, Premises and Users
The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) for NARP II is first and foremost a management
tool to for senior-level institutional managers of KARI and the World Bank who are responsible, at their
institutional levels, for the overall management and monitoring of this project. The PIP for the initial
two years of the project was discussed and agreed during negotiations.
As an executive-level management instrument, the purpose of the PIM is to focus the attention
of senior managers on project and program performance and on strategic issues and concerns affecting
the intended aims, outcomes and impacts of the project. It is meant to assist the senior-level managers
to assess and give guidance to those who are responsible for planning, implementing, monitoring,
managing project-related activities throughout KARI.
T;he design of the PIM is based on the following premises.
*     The PIM sets goals and guides implementation planning and decision-making, but does
not specify or impose specific activities or operational decisions.
*     The PIM promotes performance; it does not prescribe operational plan details.
*     The PIM sets the framework for measuring and evaluating progress toward
programmatic and project goals and targets.
*     The PIM is adaptable in format and structure so that implementation infonnation can
be updated on semi-annual and annual basis as required by KARI and the World Bank.
The most important uses of the PIM will be for KARI's continuous, internal quarterly and semi-
annual reviews and for the World Bank's annual and mid-term joint GOK-Donor review meetings.
2.    Management Requirements of Users
The key users of the PIM are institutional-level decision-makers. In KARI, these are (i) The
KARI Board, (ii) The KARI Management, (iii) KARI Directors and Assistant Directors and (iv)



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
Research Center Directors. In the World Bank, these are (i) Task Manager, (ii) Technical Support
Officers, and (iii) Supervision Mission members. In the Ministry of Research, Technology and
Technical Training, these are (i) Senior Management Team of the Ministry, (ii) Budgeting and
Accounting Officers, and (iii) Technical Liaison Officers.
The GOK and KARI institutional-level project implementation management requirements focus
on planning, managing, coordinating, guiding and controlling organizational and project resources for
achieving the project purposes and expected outcomes. The World Bank executive-level project
implementation management requirements focus largely on monitoring and evaluation project progress:
Factor       KARI Management Requirements      World Bank Management
Requirements
Inputs       Planning, allocation and management of   Financial flows and compliance with
resources dedicated to the project and  project plans and conditions for project
related activities                  resources
Outputs      Guidance and control of resources for  Accomplishments and products
achieving results planned for NARP II    achieved against those planned for
NARP II
Milestones    Critical moments and/or measures of  Critical moments and/or measures of
achievement at planned points in time  achievement at planned points in time
Impacts      Guidance and coordination purposes and   Leverage effects and sustainable results
for analysis of effects and results for  prompted through the project and
decision-making and policy-making   related policy effects and impacts
purposes.
Assumptions  Important, critical changes in the   Important, critical changes in the
contextual setting or assumptions that    contextual setting or assumptions that
are likely to affect the project in any  are likely to affect the project in any
significant way                     significant way
Issues       Identification of critical operational,  Identification of critical issues which
implementation, technological,      are likely to affect the achievement of
methodological, organizational, policy  project aims and need to be addressed
issues which need management guidance   within the context of the project
and direction
3. PIM Structure
The PIM is structured in line with the following key terms. "Project" refers to NARP II in its
totality. "Dimension" refers to one of the three aspects of the project -- (1) Institutional Development,



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
(2) Research Program Implementation, and (3) Special Programs. (Note that these were called
"components" in the World Bank documentation. "Component" is used to refer to the primary project
implementation areas which comprise the elements or sub-components of the project dimensions.
The PIM will be organized into the following sections.
Section 1: Summary of NARP II
The PIM comprises an introductory chapter with a summary of the project scope and objectives
and other project information deemed relevant for executive-level implementation management
and monitoring. Critical information contained in other project documents such as the Staff
Appraisal Report, Aide Memoires and Working Papers are included.
Section 2: Organizational Arrangements for Implementation
This section of the PIM presents the organizational structure for project implementation,
including organizational responsibilities for implementation, relationships with other relevant
organizations and parties, and administrative arrangements for project implementation.
Section 3: Project Monitoring and Evaluation
This section of the PIM presents a summary of the monitoring and evaluation arrangements for
the project, in particular the World Bank supervision and evaluation plan, and identifies critical
project conditions, covenants and key impact indicators which require monitoring and/or special
attention.
Section 4: Financial Management Arrangements
This section of the PIM presents the project accounting and financial management system,
agreement on auditing procedures and schedules, and arrangements for project accounts,
statements of expenditure and financial reporting. It 1 includes the overall financial plan and
schedule for the project.
Section 5: Project Component Implementation Plans
This comprises the largest section of the PIM. The structure and content of the PIM is based
on the Project Components as defined in Section 4 which are consistent with the project
documents and are in line with the organizational structures and responsibilities of KARI, as
portrayed on KARI's organizational structure.
4.    Organization of PIM by Project Components
The preparation of the PIM and implementation plans for NARP II is organized around the
project components within each dimension.



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
5.    PIM Implementation Information Requirements for Components
The implementation plans for each of the project's Components consist of the information
indicated on the following list and worksheets.
1.    Brief Introductory Narrative for the Component
(one-two paragraphs -- summarized from Project and Appraisal Reports)
2.    Statement of Objective(s) for the Component
(one-two paragraphs -- summarized from Project and Appraisal Reports)
3.    Key Roles, Responsibilities related to Project Implementation and Organizational
Structures and Components
4.    List of Key Milestones and Benchmarks by year for life of project.
5.    Component Summary Implementation Framework: A summary chart to be used for
monitoring the key elements of each Component. (See Figure 1)
6.    The Component Summary Implementation Plan: A chart summarizing the planned
year-by-year achievements and most important implementation factors to be monitored
at the executive level by KARI and the World Bank. (See Figure 2)
7.    A Component Summary Annual Implementation Monitoring Plan: A planning chart
which summarizes the annual achievements and factors to be monitored at the executive
level by KARI and the World Bank. (See Figure 3)
8.    Component Summary Implementation Schedule: A bar chart summarizing the
implementation schedule by key activities and by quarter-years for life of the project.
(See Figure 4)
The format allows the plans in the PIM to be updated for use in semi-annual, annual and
special review and evaluation meetings and exercises agreed upon and coordinated by KARI and the
World Bank.
At such meetings, the managers can also be requested to prepare a Management Submission
consisting of a narrative of additional management and implementation information which may be
useful for executive management project reviews. These can be updated for reviews and can cover, for
example, the status or any related issues such as: critical project inputs, project outputs and outcomes,
complementary projects, key assumptions, implementation issues, sustainability issues, etc.



63 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTIVITY                             YEAR 1               YEAR 2
Start      End       Start     End
1.1. Organizational Development
* Decentralize financial management procedures  Month 1                      Month 12
accountability in four centers
* Strengthening research program coordinators    Month I                     Month 12
& coordination offices
* Strengthen performance of research         Month I   Month 6
committees
* Decentralize personnel management and      Month 3                        Month 12
training procedures
* Establish monitoring & evaluation processed    Month 3   Month 6
and procedures
. Staff rationalization                      Month 7                         Month 12
1.2 Research Management & Management
Information Systems
* Training workshops for research management   Month 3                      Month 12
procedures and information systems
* Consolidate/enhance INFORM to contain up-   Month 3                        Month 12
to-date information on research systems
* Establish & Operate a Management
Information System, with focus on PM&E    Month 3                         Month 12
* Development & Operate a research
management information systems (RMIS)     Month 3                         Month 12
* Link RMIS with other management
information systems                       Month 3                         Month I
1.3 Documentation and Information Services
* Creation of a computerized union catalogue im   Month 1   Month 8
KARI
* Provision of selective dissemination of    Month 3   Month 12
information (SDI) and current awareness
services (CAS)
* Revitalize NARC Muguga library as KARl's   Month 3   Month 12
central library
* Establish plans for decentralization of library    Month I   Month 3
services
* Establish links with external databases    Month 7                         Month 1
* Training in information technology         Month 5   Month 12
* Establish hardware repair and maintenance  Month 3   Month 6
capacity
* Establish computer training facility       Month 6   Month 12
* Set up electronic mail                     Month 7   Month 12



- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
ACTIVITY                                          YEAR 1                      YEAR 2
........... .......................... ............................ .............................
Start          End           Start         End
*  Training in computer communications and                    Month 3    Month 12
documentation
*  Publicity activities                                      Month 1
1.4  Financial Management Systems
*  Definition of requirement                                  Month 1    Month 2
*  Establishment of procedures, and policies                  Month 1    Month 2
*  Training                                                                 Month 2
*  Computerization                                                          Month 6
*  Financial evaluation                                       Month 7    Month 8
.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1.5 Human Resource Management & Development
*  Training needs assessment                                  Month 4    Month 6
-  Receiving of application                                   Month 1    Month 2           Month 1   Month 2
*   Selection of scientists                                   Month 2    Month 3           Month 2   Month 3
-  Selection of technical support staff                       Month 2    Month 3           Month 2   Month 3
*  Selection of management support staff                      Month 2    Month 3           Month 2   Month 3
* Administer admissions                                       Month 3   Month 4   Month 3  Month 4
Improve terms and conditions of service                     Month 7
*  Implement new staff promotion system                       Month 7
.improve staff welfare conditions                             Month 7
...............  ..... . ........ ...................................................................................................................................................................................
1.6 Civil Works and Procurement
*  Establish estate management division                       Month 6
* Draw master plans                                          Month 3   Month 5
*Start civil works at Thika                                   Month 6                                   Month 4
- Completion of Embu and Mtwapa                              Month 7                                    Month 5
* Muguga roads                                                Month 11                                  Month 9
* Njoro water                                                 Month 12                                  Month 5
* Access roads at RRCs and NRCs                               Month 12                                  Month 5
* KARI-HQ junior houses                                       Month 10                                  Month 8
*  Purchase of lab and field equipment                        Month 8                                   Month 3
*  Purchase of vehicles                                       Month 7                                   Month 6
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2.0  Research Programs
*  Project compilation                                        Month 1
*  Presentation of projects of CRACs                          Month 2
*  Presentation of projects to CTRC                           Month 2
*  Presentation of projects and work plans to SPC    Month 3
*  Approval of Projects                                       Month 4
*  Approval of funds                                          Month 4
*  Release of funds                                           Month 4
..Research project implementation                             Month 4



- 65 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
ACTIVITY                             YEAR I                YEAR 2
Start     End       Start      End
3.0 Seeds Sector Development
* Start seed system coordination unit         Month 6
* Establishand Operate SIDUs                  Month 9
* Establish & Operate FSUs at Katunami and
Thika                                      Month 9                         Month 12
* Establish & Operate FSUs at Marinda and
Kitale                                                           Month 7
* Establish & Operate FSUs at Njoro and Embu                       Month 7



KENYA NARP It. Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITIES                                        P. M.       1996             1997            1998             1999            2000             2001
' 1 2   3  1 4 1    2   3   4   1  2   3   4   1  2 3 4   <23    4                   12   3-4
1. Works
I I Embu RR  Rehllab                           ICB                     .1. 2     i  .4         . ..
1 23  4 56 78j             j9
1 2 MtAwapa RRC Rehab                          ICER 
I  D   I        ,:  1    ^         "I           :~~~I 
13I Njoroi NRC' Water Suppi\ & Rehab          NCB
1 23   4 56   7   8              9
1 4 Seed Unit Facilities                      NCB
1 23   4 56 6   7   . 
1.6 Thilka NRC Laboratories                   NCB
1 23   4 156 178            9
1.7 Access Road - Muguga NRC                  NCB                                        < X                 1 :
1.8 Internal Road - Kitale. Kisii             NCB                                              A  isg
1.9 Intemal Road - Naivasha, Njoro            NCB                                                        I
1.10 Intemal Roa.d - Lmbu                     NCB                                              4 56             9
1.11 KARI-IIQ StailHlouses                    NCB                                              4     ,78
___  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____    ____~   ~~~ ~~ ~~~ J23  4 56
PROCUREMEN 1 ACTIONS                                                                    PROCUREMENT METHOD (PM)
I Prepare bidding documents                   6 IDA no objection for award            ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding
2 Submission of drafl BID to IDA              7 Contract award                         NCB-Local Competitive Bidding
3 Clearance by IDA                            8 Construction                           FA-Force Account                                                       oD D
4 Bidding period                              9 Construction completed                                                                                            x
5 Bid evaluation                                                                                                                                               o
0



KENYA  NARP 11. Procurement Packages and Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITIES                                         PM         1995            1996             1997            1998             1999            2000
1  2 1 3 1 4   1  2 ' 3 1 4  _ 1  2   3  4    2                        4 12: 3   4
1   2   ___ __  ____ ___ 2 _3                    2   3    4   1   2   3   4 
2 Vehicles
2   1 Carsand  Pick-upis                       I B11:x.....                                                                 s        . .....
I 2 3   4 5 6   7   8              1  23 4   56  7    8
2 2 Trucks and Buses                          I[CBR              ,                             4       7L
l                   i~~~~~~~~~ 2 3   4 156   7 | 8
3 (ioods
. I I.ahoiton Iquipnment         1      (      13      . +                                                      I R R : B
I  1 23 4 56 7 8 9    1 23 4  56 7  8 9
32 Audio Visual lE quipment                    ICB
1 23   456   7   8
3 3Uflce Equipment & Compuitel-s             ICB                       i
1   23 4   56  7    X                                     1  23 4   567    8
Ail~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
NCB
1 23 4156 17    8                                        1  23  -   567
3 4 Field Equipment                            ICB                                           | B. s
1 23   456  7 8                1   23 4  !56  7    8
3 5 Work;shop Equipment                        ICB                                                                                              . ...... . . [  |
:l  *,:~::i~: !           1 23   456   718                1  23 4   56  7    8
36 Fumiture                                   NCB    I                *.L1
PROCUREMENT ACTIONS                                                                        PROCUREMENT METHOD (PM)
1 Prepare bidding documents                   6 IDA no objection for award              ICB-International Competitive Bidding                                P
2 Submission of draft BID to IDA              7 Contract award                          NCB-Local Competitive Bidding                                        o
3 Clearance by IDA                            8 Delivery                                FA-Force Account                                                        x
4 Bidding period                              9 Installation
5 Bid evaluation                                                                                                                                             o



- 68 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP II)
Summary Of Objectives And Key Performance Indicators
OBJECTIVES        INPUTS                    OUTPUTS               RISKS AND
(Resources provided   (Goods and services       CRMCAL             OUTCOMES AND
for project        produced by the project)  ASSUMPTIONS               IIPACTS
activities)                                   (The outcome is      (of project activities)
dependent on ... )
Transfonnation of     * IDA Credit       * improved financial and   * Sustainability and  * Financial and account-
KARI into a leaner    ($14.9 million).    accounting system which   timeliness of local  ing system decentralized
and more efficient    * Grants from     is decentralized to the   counterpart funding.    and operational in all
organization.         other donors (S4.6  research centers.       * Strengthening of    research centers.
million).         * Rationalized network of  extension and        * Reduction in number o
* GOK counter-    research centers.        support services.     research centers.
part (S64.7       * Streamlined KARI        * Reassignment and    * 1400 staff retrenched.
million).         headquarters organization   rationalization of  * Two pilot soil
and management.         functions of research    analysis laboratories for
Funds will        * Library upgraded at     centers.             improved fertilizer
finance civil     KARI headquarters and     * Staff retrenchment   recommendations
works, equip-     research center.          program is on         established.
ment, books,       * Agricultural Research    schedule.           * More effective
training, research,   Fund in place.        * Functions/man-      research planning and
technical          * Scientists trained in  dates and numbers of   management system.
assistance and the   advanced research      research centers are  * 10% increase in
retrenchment      techniques.              rationalized,          number of scientist with
program.           * Fanming systems        * Modalities for      postgraduate degrees.
research approach (FSA)   management and use    * Greater participation
introduced.              of funds generated    of farners in planning
* Establish sustainable  are transparent and   and implementation of
source of research       sound.                relevant research
funding                                        programs.
* Continuity of research
programs is assured.
Implementation of     * IDA Credit       * 25% increase in re-     * Availability and   * Research focused on
priority research     ($20.6 million).    search output on crops,  timeliness of        priority areas.
programs and effective   * Other donors    livestock, biotechnology,    counterpart funding.   * 25% increase in
dissemination of      ($55.5 million).    natural resource manage-    * Increased farmer    improved technologies
inproved technologies   , Private sector    ment and socioeconomics.   involvement in iden-  for dissemination.
(S7.0 million).   * Specialized laboratories   tifying production  * Specialized research
* GOK ($5.0       rehabilitated and         constraints and in   laboratories are in
million).         equipped.                  implementation of    operation.
* Improved quality and    on-farm adaptive     * Increase technology
Funds will        implementation of          research.           transfer support at 10
finance operating   adaptive research at     * More effective     RRCs.
costs, civil works,  Regional Research       collaboration with   * Increase collaboration
field equipment,    Centers (RRCs).          the extension        with extension.
in-service train-                            service.
ing and technical
assistance.



- 69 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Summary Of Objectives And Key Performance Indicators
OBJECTIVES        INPUTS                    OUTPUTS               RISKS AND
(Resources provided   (Goods and services       CRMCAL              OUTCOMES AND
for project        produced by the project)  ASSUMPTIONS               IMPACTS
activities)                                   (The outcome is      (of project activities)
dependent on...)
Implementation of                        * Standard research and                        * Increase in
priority research                        development procedures                          productivity of major
programs and effective                   using the FSA introduced.                       crop/livestock/agro-
dissemination of im-                     * Two pilot soil analysis                       forestry production
proved technologies.                    laboratories for improved                        systems.
(con't)                                 fertilizer recommenda-
tions established.
Provide good quality    * IDA Credit     * Liberalized seed       * Implementation of    * Availability of high
seeds or planting     ($4.1 million)     industry.                policies to liberalize    quality seeds and
materials of          * USAID (S3.0      * Improved seed          the seed industry.    planting materials of
recommended           million).          processing and                                 recommended varieties.
varieties.            * GOK (S0.7        distribution system.                           * Import and export of
million).         * Seeds of recommended                          seeds is facilitated.
varieties available to                         * Production of seeds
Funds will        farmers.                                        by the informal seed
finance training,    * 5 Foundation Seed                          sector, e.g. individual
seed processing   Units in operation.                             farmers, is facilitated.
facilities and    * 5 commercial seed
technical         industry development
assistance.       units established.



- 70 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP II)
The National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan
1.    Kenya continues to require significant and sustained increases in agricultural production to keep
pace with population growth, provide additional employment, generate better standards of living and
increase exports. There is extreme pressure on the resource base of land and water. Greatly increased
productivity must therefore be achieved while maintaining or if possible, improving the productive
capacity of natural resources.
2     In addition to the inadequacies in the policy environment, the physical challenges to increasing
sustained agricultural growth are formidable. There is very little high potential agricultural land left for
expansion of cultivated agriculture or grazing, leaving intensification of land use as the only viable
option for increased production. Plots of land continue to be subdivided to a size that is increasingly
unable to sustain the families which farm them, leading to migration to semi-arid areas, encroachment
of farming into forests and game parks and widespread off-farm employment in search for additional
sources of income. The fragile drier areas are experiencing adverse environmental impacts of rapid
population increases and use of inappropriate technologies. The spread of settled agriculture in these
areas denying pastoralists access to dry season grazing areas, have also caused deepening poverty
among the mainly nomadic people.
3.    Transformation of agriculture and moving the sector to a higher growth path, encouraging
private enterprise and refocusing the role of Government, will require new yield and productivity
enhancing technology. In order for the research system to operate efficiently and have impact, it is
essential to have a clear vision of the national agricultural development strategy and the research
priorities. The framework which guides KARI in the identification of the Institute's research priorities
is laid down in major policy documents endorsed by GOK which outline the role and obligations of the
1                 2
National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and its main thrusts.
4.     Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 focuses on the adoption of more productive practices in
agriculture using improved varieties and fertilizers, and control of diseases and pests. It emphasizes
The NARS includes all institutions and organizations involved in agricultural research in Kenya, not just
KARI.
2
Important among these are: Sessional Papers No. 1 of 1986 on Economic Management for Renewed
Growth and No. 1 of 1994, on Recovery and Sustainable Development to the year 2000; the National
Development Plans of 1989-1993, and of 1994-1996; the National Council for Science and Technology
Report on National Priority Areas (No. 30 of October, 1989);and the National Agricultural Research
Strategy and Plan (1986), and several PFPs, especially the latest (1995-1997).



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
research on new varieties especially in maize and other food grains, production of tea, coffee and
vegetables in order to generate higher incomes and employment. The paper lists the following crops in
order of priority: coffee, tea, maize, wheat, milk, meat and horticultural crops. Those listed as
secondary are: sorghum, millet, rice, root crops, sugar and oil crops. Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1994
stresses the importance of the development and diffusion of technical innovations to enhance yields and
the availability and efficient use of labor, fertilizers and other inputs; the promotion of high value
agricultural activities to generate increased employment, incomes and foreign exchange is advocated.
The paper advocates strengthening agricultural research and extension services and ensuring improved
effectiveness through increased financing for non-salary operating and maintenance costs, among others
as a result of Civil Service Reform. Strengthening of linkages between research (KARI) and extension
(MALDM) is emphasized. Research on horticulture and oil crops is assigned high priority. The
importance of protecting and ensuring the sustainable use of genetic resources is stressed.. It is stated
that agricultural marketing institutions and other organizations will be encouraged to collect commodity-
specific research levees such as already exist for coffee, tea and sugar. The Government's policy to
ensure an adequate supply of good quality seeds for a wide range of crops is high-lighted, urging the
private sector to invest in seed production and distribution. The importance of small-scale irrigation
development through private farmers initiative is emphasized.
5.     The National Development Plan (1989-1993), outlines an overall thrust for agricultural policy
in Kenya. According to the plan, the three principal development policy objectives for Kenya are:
(i)    to achieve internal self-sufficiency in agricultural production;
(ii)   to maintain adequate levels of strategic reserves; and
(iii)  to generate additional supplies for export.
6.     This policy thrust is expected to contribute towards the attainment of Kenya's objectives of
increased employment, income generation, foreign exchange earnings, rural and urban balance, food
security and overall economic growth. The document for 1994-1996 reiterates these broad policy
objectives. In addition, it stresses the importance of agricultural research, of age and gender as factors
in agricultural production, of safeguarding the country's genetic resources and of recognizing Plant
Breeders' Rights. A commitment is made to maintaining an up-to-date assessment of national
agricultural research capacity and to the optimum utilization of human resources and infrastructure;
closer collaboration between KARI, Universities and LARCs is advocated, confirming that KARI will
maintain its role as the umbrella organization for agricultural research in Kenya. The Plan also
recommends that the application of biotechnology in agriculture and livestock production be encouraged
and developed. It advocates competition in seed production and marketing, and the need for
Government to continue to ensure seed quality.
7.     The National Council for Science and Technology Report identifies as research priorities: post
harvest processing and storage, watershed management and hydrological studies (especially in relation
to the conservation and management of soil resources), plant and animal genetic resources, crop
production, agro-forestry systems, plant and animal health and diseases, animal production management
and ecology, agricultural policy research, the economics of farming, education and extension and,
energy for production in agriculture.



- 72 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
8.     In the current draft PFP, the Government recognizes that the seed industry in Kenya would
benefit from increased competition. In order to have a competitive seed industry in operation, the
Government would take additional steps to:
(i)    issue a policy statement allowing for production and trade of all seeds especially
cereals) and planting materials by a plurality of MALDM-approved producers/traders;
(ii)   liberalize marketing of seed;
(iii)   establish financially self-sustaining breeder and foundation Seed Units at the Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute's (KARI) research centers based on the sale of KARI's
foundation and breeder seed to private sector seed companies and farmer seed
producers; and
(iv)   improve public plant quarantine facilities to facilitate the import and export of seed.
9.     The Government acknowledges the importance of technology generation and dissemination in
its strategy to accelerate agricultural growth; in that respect, the role of KARI is crucial. In the context
of NARP II, the Government has initiated a review of KARl and has developed an action plan to
streamline the Institute to allow it to implement its mandate more effectively and efficiently.
Implementation of this plan is scheduled to occur over 1995-97. This will include a rationalization of
the Research Center Network, reduction in number of non-essential support staff, redeployment of
scientists, and greatly improved funding of non-salary research operating costs. The Government will
examine the potential for financing agricultural research from levies based on agricultural seed sales.
'he Government will also strengthen KARI's performance and facilitate agricultural research being
focused on the key priorities by expanding the role of KARl's Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) in the
financing of research "contracts", including collaborative research with other National or International
Agricultural Research Institutions.
10.    The research priorities generated and accepted by KARI such as laid out in the "Agricultural
Research Priorities to the Year 2000" and the NARP Phase II PPD, are based on the above national
development goals and objectives. The national research thrusts identified and detailed in the research
priority statement based on the key national priority areas, including: proper management and
conservation of the natural resource base as an insurance for sustained agricultural productivity;
promotion of national food security; sustained use of under-exploited natural resources; generation of
employment opportunities in order to alleviate poverty and thus facilitate overall economic growth; and
generation of foreign exchange earnings through export of surplus agricultural products.



- 73 -
Annex 8
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP 11)
The Regional Agricultural Research Strategy of Countries in the ASARECA
1.    KARI is a member of the Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in
Eastern and Central Africa (ASARECA), established at Addis Ababa in September 1994 and
comprising the National Agricultural Research Institutes of 9 countries in the region (Burundi,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zaire). ASARECA is
the region's response to the critical need for efficiency and effectiveness in agricultural
research, and based on the realization that the NARSs of the Eastern and Central Africa (ECA)
region together can be more than the sum of its parts. The members of ASARECA have
endorsed a "Framework for Action", which seeks to better equip national agricultural research
to make its essential contribution to equitable development, food security and environmental
sustainability, both regionally and nationally.
2.     This will involve:
(i)    Institutional reforms of NARSs, building capacity to evolve an enabling environment
for creativity, innovation and improved performance. This includes the generation of a
National Research Master Plan and Strategy. Agricultural research should feature
prominently on the agenda of policy-makers to ensure adequate, stable and timely
funding especially of recurrent research operating expenditures;
(ii)    New modes of regional collaboration among NARSs, based on the principles of
comparative advantage and relative strengths to achieve economies of scale and critical
mass to address common priority constraints; and,
(iii)   Farmers' participation in setting the research agenda, and research and extension
delivering technology to them in easily understandable terms. The active involvement
of scientists, farmers and extensionists in the implementation of research will be
encouraged and supported.
3.     Strengthening of the NARSs implies up-to-date national strategic plans for agricultural research
that include stakeholders in the setting of the research agenda, are gender-responsive and concemed with
environmental sustainability, and ensure that the research agenda reflects key development
opportunities, applies a production to consumption approach, and promotes institutional pluralism. The
FFA subscribes to the development of regional collaboration by rationalizing current collaborative
networks and by setting priorities for regional collaboration in agricultural and natural resources
management research, including involvement of the IARCs.
1
Two additional countries, Rwanda and Somalia are expected to join ASARECA later.
2
For a more detailed description of the FFA, see "Strengthening National Agricultural Research Systems in
Eastern and Central Africa, World Bank, 1995".



- 74 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP II)
CONSULTANT SERVICES REQUIREMENTS
Person Months       Procurement
Procedure '
A. CAPACITY BUILDING SUPPORT
Short-term Consultants
1. Training Specialist                               8          International
2. Integrated Pest Management                         9         International
3. Research Management                        LumpSum           Intemnational
4. Socio-economist                            Lump Sum          LocaUInternational
5. Various disciplines - Supervision/Studies  Lump Sum          Local
6. Desk-top Publishing Consultant             Lump Sum          International/Local
7. Biotechnology                                                International
8. Natural Resource Management                Lump Sum          International/Local
9. Pasture Agronomist                                           International/Local
10. Post-harvest Specialist (Durables and Perishable)   Lump Sum  International
11. Livestock Specialist                              9          Local
12. Crop Protection Specialist (Weed Control)         9          International
13. Various disciplines                        Lump Sum          Local/International
B. PROJECT PREPARATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
1. Farming Systems Research Specialist               24         International
2. Seed Production Specialist                        36         International
(Short - Term Consultants)                      Lump Sum      International/Local
1. Procurement Specialist
2. Information Specialist
3. Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist
4. Mid-term Review
5. Various studies
6. Engineer/Architect - Design and Supervision
of Civil Works program
7. Agricultural Research Fund
8. Personnel Management Specialist
9. Organization and Management Specialist
10. Financial Management Specialist
Notes: Additional details on the consultancy requirements are provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
a/ "International" means internationally recruited; "local" means locally recruited.



- 75 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Farming Systems Research Specialist
INTRODUCTION
1 .    KARI has identified a need in the Office of the Assistant Director for Regional Research
Centers (RRCs) for a farming systems research specialist to assist in the development of research
management systems, research protocols, including diagnostic analyses of production constraints,
design of the appropriate research, analysis of data and interpretation of results; and formulation of
effective programs for the transfer of technologies to beneficiaries. The consultant would continue the
institutionalization of the farming systems approach for developing and adaptation of improved
technologies which was initiated under NARP I.
SCOPE OF WORK
2.    The farming systems research specialist would assist KARI:
(a)    Identify and generate technologies appropriate to farmers in the dominant
crop/livestock production systems of the various agro-ecological zones of the regions;
(b)    Formulate strategies and implement actions to disseminate such technologies through
improving quality and relevance of adaptive research,
(c)   Identify priority areas requiring improvements/strengthening to improve the
implementation of the Farming Systems Approach (FSA) to agricultural research and
development in KARL;
(d)    Strengthen mechanisms to effectively coordinate interdisciplinary regional research
programs at KARI HQ and RRCs and improve the procedures to provide necessary
technical guidance and on-the-job training to RRC scientists; and suggest actions to be
taken to implement such actions;
(e)    Develop standard FSA methodologies suitable for Kenyan circumstances which would
be applied to all projects following the FSA, irrespective of sources of funding/donors;
(f)    Coordinate technical assistance inputs in research programs following the FSA;
(g)    Strengthen working linkages between the AD for RRC and other KARI directorates,
NRCs, Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (MALDM),
Universities, farmers, and NGOs and lARCs;
(h)    Improve institutional mechanisms for systematic and timely planning, implementation,
evaluation and reporting of regional adaptive research activities; and
(i)    Publish a Newsletter on the FSA and other RRC activities.
3.    The consultant would participate in the delivery of training courses, various meetings, seminars
and symposia; and specific activities related to facilitating operationalization of FSA in KARI and
improving the effectiveness of the RRCs.



- 76 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
Duration:
Two years.
Duty Station.
KARI Headquarters, Nairobi, Kenya. The farming systems specialist will report to the
Director for Research through the Assistant Director for RRCs.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Seed Systems Specialist
INTRODUCTION
To implement the seed component of NARP II, KARI has identified the need for a seed systems
specialist (hereinafter referred to as "specialist") in the Seed Coordination Unit.  The main
responsibilities of the specialist would include assisting KARI and MALDM in the development of a
seed system initially in the pilot area.
SCOPE OF WORK
More specifically the specialist will:
(a)    Assist KARI in the implementation of seed production programs in the informal and
formal sectors in the pilot area, and in improving the effectiveness of the breeder and
foundation seed production activities of the Foundation Seed Units (FSUs) to be set up
under the project.
(b)   Identify the existing barriers to the entry of good quality seed and germ plasm into
Kenya and assist KARI and MALDM to take appropriate policy and procedural
measures to overcome them.
(c)    Provide on-the-job training to the FSU and Seed Industry Development Unit (SIDU)
staff.
(d)    Assist the KARI research staff of the centers concerned, in training the Subject Matter
Specialists of the extension system in the various aspects of seed production, including
dissemination of information relating to seed production technologies and marketing.
(e)   Identify and generate a management system appropriate to the Seed Coordination Unit,
FSUs and SIDU.
(f)    Propose measures to strengthen mechanisms in KARI to effectively provide the
necessary technical and business assistance to seed growers and marketeers.



- 77 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
(g)    Assist KARI in drawing up the annual work program and budget to implement the seed
component of NARP II.
(h)    Propose improvements to the institutional mechanisms for systematic and timely
planning, funding, implementation, evaluation and reporting of seed production and
management, information dissemination, training and consulting activities.
(i)    Assist KARI publish a bi-annual Newsletter on seed industry in general and on the
activities under the seed component of NARP II in particular, and to draw the attention
of private and public seed sector seed industry to the current trends and practices in the
industry relevant to Kenya.
(j)    Assist KARI strengthen the working linkages between the Seed Coordination Unit and
other departments/divisions of KARI, NRCs, RRCs, MALDM, Universities, formal
and informal seed producers, and NGOs.
4.    The specialist will participate in the design and delivery of training courses, various meetings,
seminars and symposia, and specific activities related to the development of seed system in Kenya; and
will assist the MALDM in formualting a legal framework for seed system development which would
facilitate its all-round development.
5.     The specialist will report to the Director for Research through the Manager of the Seed
Coordination Unit.
Duration
Three years.
Duty Station
KARI Headquarters, Nairobi, Kenya.
ANX09CONFNL
June 14, 1996 11:54AM



- 78 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP II)
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FUND
INTRODUCTION
1.    The need for local universities, private sector and individual scientists to complement and
supplement KARI efforts in agricultural research and development was identified during reorganization
and rationalization of the national agricultural research system (1985-86). The reorganization and
rationalization process resulted in a plan called the National Agricultural Research Program of
September, 1986. One of the Program's recommendations was the creation of an Agricultural Research
Fund (ARF). The ARF was established in February 1990, and officially launched by the Minister for
Research, Science and Technology on July 19, 1991. The ARF is now fully operational with a
Secretariat based at the KARI Headquarters.
RATIONALE
2.    The creation of the Agricultural Research Fund and its establishment within KARI is justified
as follows:
i)    Under the reorganized and rationalized National Agricultural Research System,
KARI is the major research organization responsible for research work on crops
and livestock, except research on some industrial crops, primarily coffee and tea.
It is charged with developing national agricultural research plans and priorities in
accordance with the national development goals and objectives.
ii)    KARI is a parastatal research organization established under the Science and
Technology (Amendment) Act of 1979. It is a body corporate with perpetual
succession and a common seal. It has power to acquire, hold and dispose of
movable and immovable property for its own purposes. Under this provision
KARI can receive grants, gifts and loans for the purposes of agricultural research.
Therefore, the creation of the ARF did not require the establishment of a separate
corporation.
iii)    As a statutory requirement under the Act, KARM is expected to establish and
strengthen linkages with other public and private organizations involved (directly or
indirectly) in agricultural research and production. Through appropriate forums
and linkage mechanisms, these organizations can contribute to the setting of
national research priorities, implementation of research programs and
dissemination and use of research results. The ARF constitutes a major linkage
mechanism.



- 79 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 5
iv)    KARI's financial and procurement regulations and procedures are acceptable to
both the Kenya Government and to the broad donor community, thus facilitating
disbursement of funds and accountability.
OBJECTIVES
3.    The Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) was established to provide a mechanism for funding
agricultural research that is complementary to the research funding through KARI, universities and
other agencies from public, private bilateral and multilateral sources. Such complementarity is achieved
by focusing the ARF funds on selected, high priority topics within the framework of KARl's priorities
for supporting agricultural development, and by competitively allocating funds in a manner designed to
achieve synergy and cost-effective research.
4.    The specific objectives of the Agricultural Research Fund are:
i)    To more effectively access the country's scientific community and draw upon the
comparative advantage of various institutions to contribute to the priority research
of KARI.
ii)    To contribute to developing an environment that promotes and expands
opportunities for innovative research by scientists in both the public and private
sectors.
iii)   To achieve synergy and more cost-effective research through mechanisms that
enhance teamwork, collaboration between KARI scientists and those in public and
private institutions, and greater participation of stakeholders in the formulation and
funding of agricultural research proposals.
iv)    To broaden the participation of the private sector in supporting research,
particularly of major commodities, and
v)    To promote stronger linkages between agricultural research and tertiary level
training in agriculture to enhance the quality of training, particularly at post-
graduate levels.
ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE
5.    The Agricultural Research Fund is a discrete entity within KARI. It is managed, on behalf of
the KARI Board of Management, by the Research Fund Management Committee (RFMC). The
members of the RFMC comprise representatives drawn from public and private institutions, each
member having been chosen for his/her distinguished career in agricultural development, particularly
agricultural education, research or research management. Members serve for three years, extendible for
another three year term. The RFMC has the following broad representation and minimum of seven
appointed members:
*     Universities and Scientific community (three members)



- 80 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
*     Government institutions (two members)
*      Private sector (two members)
6.    The Director and Deputy Directors of KARI, Head of the ARF Secretariat and donor
representatives are ex-officio members of the RFMC are:
GENERAL AREAS OF RESEARCH
7.    The following broad descriptions give a general idea of research topics supported by the ARF.
Specific areas of investigation will be defined each year by the RFMC, and announced publicly.
a)     Crop Science: Research on production of agricultural and horticultural crops;
crop management including soil, water, fertilizer studies; plant-microorganism
relationships; disease, pest and weed control; plant breeding; plant biotechnology;
and farming systems
b)    Animal Production: Animal breeding, reproduction and nutrition; health and
diseases; development, production, conservation and utilization of feed; animal
traction; animal biotechnology; and animal production systems.
c)     Food Science: Post-harvest systems and technology; storage; food processing and
technology; food safety and quality; and food composition and nutritional value.
d)     Agroforestry: Agroforestry for control of soil erosion, improvement and
maintenance of soil fertility; multipurpose trees/shrubs for fodder, fruits, fuelwood,
timber, etc.; and farming systems.
e)     Natural products: Identification, isolation, characterization and preparation of
organic compounds to produce medicinal, insecticidal, biological and industrial
products.
f)     Aquaculture: Selection of sites; selecting, breeding, rearing and nutrition of
cultivable organisms; and disease control.
g)    Agricultural Policy and Economics: Research on policies affecting agricultural
research and development; pricing and marketing of commodities; and technology
adoption studies.
8.    It is anticipated that research proposals will be for highly applied research and contribute
directly to technology formulation and uptake by farmers, or lead to commercial applications.



-81 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 5
ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
Invitation for Research Proposals
9.    The ARF Secretariat will publish the Invitation for Research Proposals in daily newspapers
(with copies sent to relevant institutions) in June each year. Application submissions are due by
September 15, and the applicants will be informed of the decisions by December 31 of the same year.
Grant funds will be available from January 1, of the following year.
10.   Applications must be made on Annex 1, the ARF Application Form, and be in accordance
with the guidelines provided in Annex 2 of the form. Copies, including telefaxed copies will not be
accepted. A copy of the application form may be used. The applicant must submit to the ARF
Secretariat the original signed document. The quality of the document must be good enough to
enable the Secretariat to make copies. Applications shall be prepared in English and typed.
Registration of Applications
11.   Each application received by the Secretariat will be given a number and entered in a register.
All research proposals will be filed and treated as confidential documents by the ARF Secretariat.
FUNDING SOURCES AND POLICIES
12.   Funding of the ARF comes from public and private institutions, donors and individuals. Initial
funding has come from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for US$0.521
million; KShs.20,000 from the Agricultural Research Foundation (AGREF) to support Small Ruminant
Research, and KShs. 1 million from the Kenya Seed company for crop varietal development and seed
technology; 50,000 pound sterling from the ODA; and US$49,000 from the World Bank. Government
contribution to the ARF would be provided through an IDA credit in the amount of about US$4 million.
Additional funding is to be sought from donors and Kenyan agro-industries, particularly those involved
with major commodities. Funds are maintained in a multi-donor account with a Commercial Bank.
Earmarking of funds for specific purposes by the donors is permitted, as are special conditions relating
to proprietary rights and royalties. In cases of such special conditions, these are reflected as an
addendum to the contract agreement between the ARF, the principal Investigator receiving the award
and the participating (host) institution.
13.   To attract industry funding of the ARF, the RFMC is prepared to consider allocating
matching funds in support of research grants supported through industry funding. Matching funds
may come either from untied ARF funds or from KARI where the proposed research is seen by
KARI management to be highly complementary to KARI work. The revised ARF provides an
attractive means by which the private sector/industry can contract research, by offering a
transparent and competitive system of research grant award, accounting, monitoring and
evaluation. The incentives for such are i) the provision for the ARF to give matching grants for
funds provided by the private sector, and ii) the absence of any proprietary rights over the
technologies/varieties developed using funds from the ARF. ( The arrangements for collaborative
and contract research through the competitive mechanism of the ARF should be viewed as
complementary to those arrangements which KARI may wish to contract directly, in order to



- 82 -
Annex 10
Page 5 of 5
supplement its own research). It is the long-term objective of the RFMC to establish an Endowment
Fund for the ARF to sustain its operations. Accordingly the RFMC maintains a separate interest
bearing account with a Commercial Bank to receive grants and donations towards the establishment
of an Endowment Fund.



- 83 -
Annex 11
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT PHASE II (NARP II)
Supervision Plan
Timing         Staff Weeks            Stafring                              Duration
FY1997           12            Bank resources of which:
- Task Manager                                6 weeks
- Financial Management Specialist            2 weeks
- Agricultural Economist                     2 weeks
- Seeds Specialist                            2 weeks
FY1998           22           Bank resources (including the Mid term Review) of which:
- Task Manager                                6 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist             2 weeks
- Civil Works/Procurement Specialist          2 weeks
- Information/MIS Specialist                  2 weeks
- Seeds & Crops Research Specialist           2 weeks
- Socio-economist                             2 weeks
- Livestock Specialist                        2 weeks
- Technology Transfer/Extension Specialist    2 weeks
- Research O&M  and M&E Specialist            2 weeks
FY1999           20           Bank resources of which:
- Task Manager                                6 weeks
- Financial/Management Specialist             2 weeks
- Farming Systems Specialist                  2 weeks
- InformationtTechnology Transfer Specialist  2 weeks
- Socio-economist                             4 weeks
- NRM/Soils Research Specialist               4 weeks
FY2000           12           Bank resources of which:
- Task Manager                                6 weeks
- Research O&M and M&E Specialist             2 weeks
- InformationwTechnology Transfer Specialist  2 weeks
- Civil Engineer/Procurement Specialist       2 weeks
FY2001            8           Bank resources of which:
- Task Manager                                6 weeks
- Research O&M and M&E                        2 weeks
FY2002            18          Bank resources (including the ICR) of which:
- Task Manager                                6 weeks
- Research Management Specialist              4 weeks
- Financial Analyst                           4 weeks
- Socio Economist                             4 weeks
Some of the required experts would be provided by the other donors.



-84 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP Il)
KENYA AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
INTRODUCTION
Mandate and Mission
1.    The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI) was established as a parastatal
organization by the 1979 Science and Technology (Amendment Act) to establish: a firm base for
developing a national agricultural research program responsive to the national development
objectives to develop well focused, relevant short and medium term research projects. This would
be accomplished through the establishment of a dynamic organizational structure and research
management systems, human resource development to produce highly skilled staff, and adoption of
a terms and conditions of service and performance incentive schemes to retain these staff and
provide them an environment conducive to high quality research and generation of relevant and
cost effective technologies, particularly for smallholder agriculture in Kenya. KARI is the main
institution comprising the Kenya National Agricultural Research System (NARS).
2.    KARl's programs focus on poverty alleviation and sustainability of agricultural
production while protecting the environment and conserving Kenya's natural resource base.
KARI's mission is to protect, conserve and improve the basic resources upon which Kenya
depends for agricultural development; increase and improve the quantity and quality of food and
other farm products, and thereby, increase the demand for those products in the local and export
markets. KARI will give emphasis to developing improved farming technologies which will
increase farmers' production and incomes and improve their quality of life. It is KARl's
responsibility to participate in the development of Kenya's Science and Technology policy
specially as it pertains to agricultural research policy, deternine agricultural research priorities,
formulate research plans to support national development objectives, and ensure that effective
mechanisms for integrating and linking technology generation and dissemination are in place.
Organization and Management
3.    KARI started as a research institute located at Muguga under the East African Agriculture
and Forestry Organization (EAAFRO) and the East African Veterinary Research Organization
(EAVRO). Both organizations were attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development and Marketing (MALDM). In 1986, KARI was established as a national
agricultural research organization by consolidating the former EAAFRO, EAVRO and the
scientific research division of the MALDM into the present KARI. When MALDM was split into
two ministries, KARI remained with the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1991, KARI was eventually
transferred to the Ministry of Research, Technical Training and Technology (MRTTT) where it
currently belongs.



Annex 12                                -8  -
Page 2 of 5
4.     The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute is managed by a Board of Management
comprising eleven ex-officio members representing relevant Government offices, and seven
appointed members representing researchers, members of the academe, agri-business
organizations/parastatals and farmers. KARI comprises a Headquarters Secretariat providing the
overall implementation coordination oversight for technical and administrative operations. The day
to day management of the Institute is the responsibility of the Director of KARI. He is assisted
two deputy directors, and 11 assistant directors who are experienced scientists in various areas of
agricultural research, personnel administration and financial management and accounting. KARI's
network of research centers and organizational chart are given in Attachment 1 and, Charts 1 and 2
respectively. KARI is comprised of National Research Centers (NRCs) and Regional Research
Centers (RRCs). The management of the research centers rests with Center Directors. Currently,
KARI has 11 centers with national mandates, 4 centers with both national and regional mandates
and 6 centers with regional mandates, spread throughout the country. In addition KARI has 12
subcenters which serve as experimental sites. National research programs are coordinated and
managed at NRCs by program leaders or program coordinators based at the NRCs. The RRC
directors, assisted by adaptive research coordinators, are responsible for the adaptive research
programs of the regions which are predominantly conducted in farmers' fields.
Research Programs
5.    The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute has put in place a process for research program
planning and priority setting which involves the active participation of the extension service, farmers
and other intended beneficiaries. Since 1991, KARI has established the research priorities for various
commodities, technical disciplines and factors of production. These priorities were reviewed in 1995
and further prioritization within the research programs has been initiated. KARI is currently
implementing strategic and problem-oriented, applied research programs, in various commodities
(cereals, fruits and vegetables, industrial crops, roots and tubers, floriculture, grain legumes, beef and
dairy cattle, small ruminants, poultry, etc.), factors of production (animal diseases, soil and water
management and conservation, range management, fertilizer use), and disciplines (integrated pest
management, postharvest physiology, socioeconomics, etc.). KARI has made significant achievements
in the development and release of improved, high yielding, disease resistant varieties of most of
strategic food and pasture crops, animal vaccines, animal disease diagnostic kits, fertilizer
recommendations packages, soil conservation and water harvesting technologies, integrated pest
management practices, dairy and beef production packages, and in the selection and development of
improved breeds of large and small ruminants.
Physical Infrastructure and Human Resource
6.     KARI's physical infrastructure has been rehabilitated and expanded in past years
(including under NARP I) and is now reasonably adequate though a small part of the
construction/rehabilitation program remains to be completed. The remainder of the program would
be implemented under NARP II.
7.    KARI's most important asset is its highly trained human resources. At reorganization,
KARI had a staff compliment of approximately 6,200, comprising 576 scientist, most of them with
bachelors and masters degrees At present, the number of staff has decreased to 5307. The number
of scientists also decreased to 537 scientists but the number with PhD degrees has increased by 30
percent, with MSc degrees by 50 percent and those with B.Sc. degrees down to 20 percent.



- 86 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 5
KARI's training program has, therefore, been successful in upgrading the qualifications and skill
of the scientist. Under NARP II, a special focus will be given to upgrading the skills of technical
and administrative staff.
Financial Resources
8.    KARI is supported by the Government of Kenya (GOK) and a number of multi-lateral and
bilateral donors. The total GOK support to KARI for personnel emoluments, recurrent operating
and development cash book expenditure has increased from KSh 275.7 million to KSh 677.5
million form 1990 to 1994. The Donors that have supported KARI over the last 10 years include
the World Bank, the European Union (EU), the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA),
Overseas Development Agency (ODA), Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA),
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Government of the Netherlands
(GON), Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) and the Australian Center for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR).
Total donor contribution to KARI amounted to KSh 178.7 million in 1993/94 financial year. The
total support from the GOK and donors amounted to KSh 856.3 million. KARI is allowed to use
income generated from its operations to augment its budget for non-salary recurrent cost. KARI
earned KSh 12 million in 1990 which rose to KSh 24 million in 1993/94.



Annex 12                                  - 87 -
Page 4 of 5
KENYA NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FACILITIES
A. MAIN RESEARCH STATIONS
Centers                        Main Program
1.     National Agricultural
Research Center, Kitale
2.     National Sugar Research        Negotiations for transfer to KSA
Center, Kibos                  on-going.
3.     National Plant Breeding        Water supply will be improved
Research Center, Njoro         under NARP II.
4.     National Agricultural          No additional work requested
Research Laboratories,
Kabete
5.     National Horticulture          Admin. block and res. laboratory
Research Center, Thika         needed. No donor identified.
6.     National Dryland Fanming       No additional work needed.
Research Center, Katumani
7.     National Potato Research       No donor identified.
Center, Tigoni
8.     National Animal Husbandry      Requires all weather road. Also
Research Center, Naivasha      supported by GON
9.     National Range Research        No additional work needed.
Center, Kiboko
10.    National Agricultural          Soil & water, dairy, plant
Research Center, Muguga        virology, gene bank, CBC, has
regional mandate
I.    National Veterinary            Production, virology proto-
Research Center, Muguga        zoology, helminthology
12.    Regional Agricultural          RRC
Research Center, Kakamega
13.    Regional Agricultural          RRC
Research Center, Kisii
14.    National Pyrethrum &           Pyrethrun and Horticulture
Horticulture Research
Center, Molo
15.    Regional Research Center,      RRC
Embu
16.    National Fiber Research        Cotton, kenaf and sunflower
Center, Mwea Tebere
17.    Regional Research Center,      RRC
Mtwapa
18.    National Cotton Research       Cotton
Center, Kibos
19.    Beef Research Center, Lanet    Beef Production
20.    National Seed Quality          Seed Technology
Control and Certification
Center, Lanet



- 88 -
Annex 12
Page 5 of 5
A. MAIN RESEARCH STATIONS (Con't.)
Centers                         Main Program
21.  Regional Research Center, Perkerra   RRC
22.  National Arid Lands Research      Arid-Semi Arid Lands.
Center, Marsabit
23.  Veterinary Research Center, Kabete  Vaccines
24.  Regional Research Center, Garissa   RRC
B. SUB-STATIONS
Sub-Centers                     Parent Center
1.    Olhnagongo,         Research Site, NRC, Naivasha
2.    Transmara            Field laboratory, VRC
3.    Alupe                Research Site, RRC, Kakamnega
4.    Homa Bay,            Research Sites, RRC, Kisii
Oyuni, Kilgoris
5.    Gituamba             Research Site, NRC, Thika
6.    Kampiya Mawe,        Research Sites, NRC, Katumani
Voi
7.    Marindas,            Research Sites, NRC, Molo
Limuru
8.    Murinduko            Research Site, RRC, Embu
9.    Giaki                Research Site, NRC, Mwea
10   Matuga,               Research sub-stations, Mtwapa
Msabaha
I1    Mpeketoni            Research Site, Mtwapa
12    Buchuma              Research Sub-Center, Kakamega
13.   Nyandarua,           Sub-center, Muguga
14.   Mariakani            Sub-center, Mtwapa



- 89 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP II)
Private Sector Role
As part of the Government's broad strategy for transition to a market-oriented economy, and in
the context of severe public sector resource constraints, the private sector is being encouraged to assume
responsibility for the types of agricultural research for which it is suited (e.g. research on cash crops),
while the public sector is focusing its efforts on the highest priorities in those areas where the private
sector is unlikely to contribute (particularly food crops).
Several mechanisms are being developed to increase private sector involvement in agricultural
research. Some of these (especially for industrial crops) have been tested and serve as models for future
efforts, while others (cost-sharing arrangements) are still in the early stages of testing. Tea and coffee
research is already fully funded by the private sector, through a cess on exports. This model, with
appropriate modifications, has been applied to sugar research, which will shortly be supported
completely by the private sector. The model is also being adapted to research on pyrethrum, cotton,
oilseeds, and horticultural crops. Barley is an important dual-purpose crop, for beer production and as
a food staple, and research can be supported by the private sector along the industrial crop model and
also on cost-sharing arrangements. Building on the barley experience, efforts will be expanded to
introduce cost-sharing arrangements with local farmers' unions and informal groups for staple crops
such as maize, sorghum, and millet.
TIhe Agricultural Research Fund (ARF), which is to be restructured and expanded under the
proposed project, is an important mechanism for fostering partnerships among stakeholders in the public
sector, the academic community, the processing industries, and producers. Under new operating
guidelines, research proposals would be funded on a competitive basis, with weight given to proposals
based on such partnerships.
The ultimate objective is to establish an integrated agricultural research system consisting of
mutually-supporting entities in the public and private sectors. The private-sector stakeholders will
assume increasing responsibility for research in their own interest, while the public sector will remain
closely involved through a network of relationships, and will continue to carry primary responsibility in
specific areas.
Sugar
Private sector responsibility for sugarcane research is already well-advanced. The Sugar
Industry Group (SIG) presently funds about 60 percent of the recurrent costs of sugarcane research
undertaken by KARI and also supports some private sector research. The proposed agreement between
SIG and KARI provides for assumption of full responsibility for research by SIG within 3 years. Under
the terms of this agreement, KARI would continue to undertake the bulk of the research, but on a
contract basis. Over time, SIG expects to expand the use of the contract mechanism to support research
on problems of particular concern to the industry by a range of researchers in the public and private
sectors. Together with the tea and coffee models, sugarcane research provides an example of
arrangements to be introduced for other industrial crops. Because SIG has the capacity to assume full



- 90 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
responsibility for relevant research, no incremental support would be provided under the proposed
project.
Pyrethrum
At present, the Pyrethrum Board of Kenya (PBK) finances about 40% of the recurrent costs of
pyrethrum research undertaken by KARI. During the transitional phase to be supported under the
proposed project, research would be rationalized and focused on the highest priorities, and,
simultaneously, PBK and the industry would assume an increasing responsibility for the research. By
the end of the project period, the would have full responsibility for research, and no further direct public
sector support would be provided.
Cotton
Government is considering a proposal to establish a Cotton Development Council representing
the primary stakeholders in the cotton and textile industries, which would have funds at its disposal to
support cotton research. In order to provide a transition between the low level of cotton research at
present and the expanded system of research to be supported by the CDC (and also directly by the
cotton and textile industries), the proposed project would support cotton research on a declining basis.
It is expected that CDC and the industries would assume full responsibility for cotton research by the
end of the project period.
Oilseeds
Governnent is considering a proposal to establish an Oilseed Development Council
representing the various groups of stakeholders and to allocate revenue from import duties on oilseeds
and oilseed products to an Oilseeds Development Fund (ODF). Among other things, the ODF would be
used to finance research on oilseed production which, initially, is likely to be carried out by KARI under
contract. As oilseed production develops from its minimal level at present, and as the ODF comes into
operation, direct public sector funding of oilseed research would be phased out. The proposed project
would support oilseed research by KARI during this transition phase and establish the foundation on
which ODF-funded research would build. It is expected that all oilseed research would be funded by
ODF (and, in part, directly by the industry) by the end of the project period.
Horticulture
Horticulture is a thriving industry which provides substantial amounts of exports (fruit, Asian
vegetables, and flowers), but it is also a widely diverse industry in which the export segments are much
better able to support related research than those producing for the domestic market. Therefore the
strategy for private sector support of research is also diverse. In the case of export crops, the
Horticultural Crops Development Authority (HCDA) comprising producers and processors, has been
providing assistance in the promotion and development of export markets and limited amounts of
funding for research undertaken by KARI. It would assume full responsibility for research over the
course of the project period.
Producers aiming primarily at the domestic market are not nearly as well organized, although
local associations exist which are expected to gather strength over time. In this case, most of the



- 91 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
research has been undertaken by KARI with public sector funding. Nevertheless, the rudimentary local
associations provide a mechanism for cost-sharing of research, which KARI has begun to explore and
which seems to hold considerable promise for the future. KARI, therefore, intends to expand this
arrangement during the project period, in terms of both the number of crops, the geographical area, and
the proportion of cost borne by the associations. This arrangement for horticulture crops represents a
model for cost sharing that KARI intends to utilize for staple crops, as well. By the end of the project
period, it is expected that private producers and processors will be funding a significant proportion of
research for a number of horticulture crops, although some public sector support is likely to be needed
over the longer term.
Staple Crops
Barley. This crop represents a special case, since it is used by Kenya Breweries and it is also a
staple food crop. Kenya Breweries has long supported research (undertaken mostly by KARI) on
varieties of barley utilized for beer production. This arrangement will be continued on a contract basis,
and the contract mechanism is expected to be expanded over time to cover research undertaken by a
range of public and private sector researchers. Research on barley used for food will require public
sector support on an extended basis. However, since many farmers produce barley for both beer and
food consumption, there is an opportunity to "piggy-back" cost sharing arrangements for food barley
research on existing arrangements for beer barley research. With the dual-purpose farmers as a
nucleus, associations of barley producers are being forned which have the potential to fund part of the
cost of food barley research. Research on problems of particular concern to producers will be
undertaken by KARI under agreements with associations, which will specify the cost-sharing
arrangements for each case. KARI intends to expand the use of such agreements over the course of the
project period, and to fund a significant portion of food barley research in this manner by the end of the
project period. It also intends to build on this experience in introducing similar arrangements for other
staple crops.
Cost Sharing Mechanism. Producers of maize, sorghum, millet, and other staple crops
generally are not organized into producers' associations, and the farmer unions (with local, district, and
national chapters) have been engaged primarily in lobbying activities. Nevertheless, KARI has had
discussions with the unions about problems of particular concern to producers and possible cost-sharing
arrangements, and feels that there is some potential for agreements with local unions. It will pursue
these discussions further during the project, with a view to introducing agreements for on-station and
on-farm research on a cost-sharing basis. In addition, there are various infornal farmer groups (e.g.
women's groups) that may have potential as counter-parties for research on problems of local concern,
in terms of designing and implementing research (primarily on-farm) and contributing to the cost of
such research. These arrangements will build on existing arrangements with individual farmers for on-
farm research, under which the farmer typically contributes his/her labor, while KARI covers the
remaining costs. KARI is attempting to extend such arrangements to farmer groups. Over the longer
term, it is envisaged that farmer unions and groups also will begin to contract with private researchers
to address particular problems.



- 92 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 5
Kenya
National Agricultural Research Project Phase II
Economic Analysis
General
1.    The economic analysis of the NARP II is performed along the lines of a conventional
cost/benefit analysis. The contribution by the project to the Kenyan economy is expressed in terms of
the economic rate of return (ERR), by allowing for a cash flow which includes only project specific
costs (investment, recurrent and replacement) and benefits (from incremental production). The
economic analysis is carried out in constant 1995 prices expressed in US dollars. The sensitivity
analyses of costs and benefits, are summarized in the form of the switching values.
2.     The economic value of the investment and the recurrent costs are derived from the financial
project cost estimates by excluding all taxes, duties, subsidies and other forms of transfer payments, as
well as price contingencies. All recurrent costs which are not incremental are excluded from the
economic costs; costs of relevant replacements, as well as the residual value of the investment, have
been accounted for in the cash flow.
3.    The benefits of the project are expressed in terms of the net value added by the incremental
production resulting from the investment. The benefits are obtained by allowing for analysis of
development in relevant agriculture production, in both the with project and the without project
scenarios. The project provides support for institution building, research on crop, livestock and
enviromnental management, and a pilot seed program. In the absence of sufficient data relating to crops
other than food grains, livestock, and environmental management programs, only benefits resulting from
food grains research are used in the economic analysis. It is assumed that incremental food grains
production would substitute for food grains imports. The incremental production has been priced using
the Bank's commodity price forecasts, the costs of shipping and insurance charges, as well as the
handling and transport costs between port of import and the farm.
Costs
4.     The economic costs of the project are estimated at US$96.4 million. They exclude salaries and
emoluments of research staff who would be in place in the without project and the with project situation
alike. The consolidated (net) investment and operation and maintenance costs are shown in Table 1,
column 1 (entire NARP II) and column 2 (food grains research under NARP II).
BenefitA
5.    General. The benefits of the project are anticipated to come in the form of incremental
production of food grains (maize, wheat, sorghum and millet) and other crops (cotton, oil crops, root
crops, horticultural crops), livestock products (meat and milk), improved animal health, and improved
natural resource management. Other than food grains, information on the quantifiable indicators of the
various research programs on other crops, livestock research, and natural resource



- 93 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 5
management research are limited or unavailable to carry out reliable economic analyses. Therefore, the
focus of the economic analysis has been confined to food grains research. The analysis is expc,ted to
provide some indication of the benefits that would be derived from all research activities supported by
the project, by using the information available for the food grains research program.
Table 1.   Net benefits Flow and Economic Indicators
(value in constant 1995 US$ million)
Incremental    Incremental    Incremental    Net Benefits    Net Benefits
Costs of Entire    Costs of        Benefits       Foodgrains        Entire
NARP II        Foodgrains      Foodgrains       Research        NARP II
Year                        Research        Research         NARP H
NARP II         NARP I
(1)             (2)             (3)          (4) = (3-2)     (5) =(3-1)
1           28.7            13.0              0.0           -13.0           -28.7
2           20.8            11.0              0.0           -11.0           -20.8
3           19.3            10.1              0.0           -10.1           -19.3
4           15.5             7.7              0.0            -7.7           -15.5
5           12.1             5.8              0.0            -5.8           -12.1
6            9.7             3.8              0.6            -3.2            -9.1
7           5.8              2.7              2.6            -0.1            -3.2
8           6.5              3.0              7.1             4.1            0.6
9            5.7             2.7             15.4             12.7           9.7
10           5.5             2.7             29.7             27.0           24.2
' 1          14.6            5.8             49.8             44.0           35.2
12           7.0             3.3             69.0             65.7           62.0
13           7.7              3.7            87.1             83.4           79.4
14           6.5              3.2            103.9           100.7           97.4
15          -3.1             -2.8            126.3           129.1           129.4
ERR            -               -               -           24 percent      15 percent
PV           95.2            45.5            115.8
NPV            -               -                              70.3            20.6
Switching Values
Costs                                                       155 percent     22 percent
Benefits                                                     -61 percent     -18 percent
6.     Area under food grains. Several statistical sources' point to difference in the areas under major
food grains in Kenya. Variations in cultivated areas are considerable according to these sources.
However, it appears reasonable to set the yearly cultivated area under food grains at about 2.1 million
Kenya Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development (MOALD), Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), Ministry of Planning and
National Development (MOND), Departmerit of Resources Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS) of MPND



- 94 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 5
hectares, which is close to the figures given by the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS). The major food
grains are distributed as follows: maize, with 1.8 million hectares is the major crop, followed by wheat,
sorghum, and millet, each of which is cultivated on 0.1 million hectares. The total cultivated area of
food grains is maintained constant in the without project as well as the with project scenario, in the
partial economic analysis involving only food grain research,.
7.     Yields of major food grains. Average yields for the major food grains vary by statistical
source. CBS data indicate that the yield for maize averages nation wide at about 1.0 ton per ha, while
the same source states about 0.4 ton per ha for millet, 0.4 ton per ha for sorghum, and 2.0 ton per ha.
for wheat. A recently published report by the Kenya Agriculture Research Institute (KARl)2 confirms
that the trend in average annual yield increases (aggregated on a country-wide basis) for major food
crops such as maize, wheat, sorghum and millet have been decreasing. This negative trends are due
mainly to expansion into less productive areas with marginal environments for crop cultivation, rather
than by detriorating yields in medium and high potential areas. The adverse effect on national yields
resulting from an expansion of cropping activities into marginal lands is, however, irrelevant to the
analysis as cultivated area and cropping pattern are maintained constant to the base year (Year 0), in
the with and without project scenarios.
8.     Relevant crop yields are summarized in Table 2, below, for the target years of the without
prject and the with project situation. It can be seen from this table that the average yields would
increase at the same pace, both in the without project and in the with project situation, during the initial
five project years. It is assumed that such increase would be due exclusively to an expanding adoption
rate by farmers of recommendations based on the results of research which was done outside the scope
of the proposed NARP II research program. The adoption rate increase from 2.5 percent in Year 6 to
37 percent in Year 10 for improved food grains technology developed under NARP II, used in the
calculations are quite conservative considering that where hybrids/improved varieties have been
introduced in Kenya, adoption rates of up to 90 percent have been observed.
9.    It is further assumed that from Year 6 onwards yields would continue to increase, both in the
with project and without project scenario. In the without project scenario, the increase in yield would
result mainly from enhanced utilization of technology packages which were recommended prior to Year
6. Yields would further increase during Years 6 to 10 of the project, due to the introduction of
improved technologies which would be generated by NARP II research. The improved technologies
would be disseminated by the existing extension staff as part of the on-going extension program.
10.    Details on the development of the benefit stream are shown in Table 3. The benefits, expressed
in terms of incremental net value added from food crop production, are calculated by assuming that
farmers will progressively adopt technology developed during the 5 years of NARP II.
Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, National Agricultural Research Laboratory, Socioecononiics Unit Working Paper No.4, April 1995.



- 95 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 5
Table 2. Yield Development of Major Food Grains With and Without the Project
(tons/ha)
Yield                   Yield
Crop and Year                 Without Project           With Project
maize
year 0                      1.00                     1.00
year 5)                     1.10                    1.10
year l0 +                   1.20                    3.00
wheat
year 0                      2.00                    2.00
year 5                      2.10                    2.10
year 10 +                    2.20                    2.40
sorghum
year 0                      0.40                    0.40
year 5                      0.45                    0.45
year 10 +                   0.50                    0.80
millet
year 0                      0.40                    0.40
year 5                      0.45                    0.45
year 10 +                   0.50                    0.80
11.   As shown in Table 3, the NARP II technology would for the first time be adopted in Year 6 on
an area equivalent to 2.5 percent of the total cultivated area (52,500 out of 2,100,000 hectares planted
to food grains); it is assumed that the area to benefit from the NARP II technology would expand
gradually by an additional 2.5 percent (i.e., by 5 percent in Year 2, by 7.5 percent in Year 3, etc.) of
total cultivated area, in each of the following 4 years up to Year 10. The total area to benefit from
NARP II technology would be equivalent to 37.5 percent in Year 10 (or 787,500 out of 2,100,000
hectares), and remain constant at this level in the years thereafter. Application of the NARP II
technology at the farm level would require additional inputs, the nature and cost of which are presently
unknown. In the absence of detailed crop budgets, it is assumed that the incremental costs of production
would be equivalent to 40 percent of the value of incremental production (value: cost ratio of 2.5).
Incremental production is valued at an import parity price of US$ 180 per ton of food grains (farngate
level).
Net Benefit Flow, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
12.   The total flow of incremental costs and benefits, as well as the resulting stream of net benefits is
shown in Table 1. The limited economic analysis, which focuses solely on the costs and benefits
associated with food grains research, reveals an ERR of 24 percent, and a net present value (NPV) of
US$ 70.3 million (discounted at 12 percent). As evidenced by the switching values, the economic return
of food grains research is robust. The switching values indicate that



- 96 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 5
the cost of research on food grains could increase by 155 percent, or alternatively, that the food grains
research benefits could drop by 61 percent, and the ERR would still be equal to the OCC or 12 percent.
Table 3. Major Food Grains Area Affected by NARP II Research
Value of Production, and Net Value Added
(area in ha, value in constant 1995 US$ million)
Year   Area Affected       Value of        Selected Food    Incremental Costs   Value Added
by        Production of Food    Grains Value of    of Production of  from Food
NARP II           Grains          Production      Food Grains With   Grains Due to
Technology    Without NARP II     With NARP II        NARP n1          NARP II
Technology        Technology        Technology       Technology
I          0              403.2              403.2               0.0              0.0
2           0              413.7             413.7               0.0              0.0
3           0              422.1             422.1               0.0              0.0
4           0              432.6             432.6               0.0              0.0
5           0              441.0             441.0               0.0              0.0
6         52,500           449.4             450.2               0.2              0.6
7        157,500           455.7             459.5               1.2              2.6
8        315,000           464.1             474.8               3.6              7.1
9        525,000           470.4             493.4               7.6             15.4
10       787,500           478.8              523.3             14.8             29.7
11       787,500           478.8              541.1             24.8             49.8
12       787,500           478.8              553.4             34.5             69.0
13       787,500           478.8              609.5             43.6             87.1
14       787,500           478.8              634.6             51.9            103.9
15       787,500           478.8              667.2             63.1            126.3
13.    The economic analysis shows that the overall economic rate of return of the project, calculated
by allowing for total project costs (including the costs of cotton, oil crops, horticultural crops, livestock
and natural resource management research) and using only the benefits from food grains research,
would at least equal 15 percent. In this case the switching values indicate that the benefits from food
grains research could decrease by 18 percent (assuming the highly unlikely event that (gross) benefits
from other research would be nil) or altematively overall costs could increase by 22 percent, and the
ERR would still be equal to the OCC. It is concluded that NARP II is very likely to attain an ERR in
excess of the OCC, and is, therefore, an economically viable project.



- 97 -
Annex 15
KENYA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE II (NARP II)
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Working Group Reports
1.01 Working Paper 1. Institutional Development and Research Management
1.02 Working Paper 2. Restructuring KARl's Financial Management System
1.03 Working Paper 3. Human Resources Development and Training
1.04 Working Paper 4. Food Crops Research and Related Areas
1.05 Working Paper 5a. Animal Production, Pastures and Fodder
1.06 Working Paper 5b. Animal Health Research
1.07 Working Paper 6. Natural Resource management Research
1.08 Working Paper 7.  Support to Socioeconomic Research in KARI
1.09 Working Paper 8. Farming Systems Approach: Support for Regional Research Centers
1.10 Working Paper 9.  Collaboration in Agricultural Research
1.11 Working Paper 10. Biotechnology
2.     Manuals
2.01 KARI Organization and Management Structures
2.02 Project Implementation Manual
2.03 Agricultural Research Fund
3.     KARI Strategic (Corporate) Plan
4.     Staff Rationalization Study
5.     Training Plan
6.    Improvement of Advisory Analytical Services
7.     Kenya Seed Sub-sector Implementation Program
8.     Detailed Project Cost Tables






SUDAN                                                                                                               KENYA
T. K.pXio-'                           \   '\  5'''i.                                  SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP 11)
Agricultural Research Stations
0 to~ ~ ~~~--
NA(1S \.                To Add., Abob 
t\      RJFTz   t                                                                                                                                       /
*    k VAL;YW,ou   XEASTERN                                                            \
<               VALE
LO    V                                           J                                          NORTH                        i
l *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AARSNARIT.  |\ 
0                                                                                                                                        NORNTHEERC ETES\t  tt
V-T RGOALRSARHMNDT ,                                       ,-                                                                                              I^\t1LM 
3  REGIONAL RESEARCH  CEN ER  G&1.;A
/<Loe    \\    NE   \                                               /    '-i                                    (
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O NATIONAL RESEARCHACENTERS                                                                                                                                             T. GC;i
ETJ RGIONL RESARCHCENT RS   HQNYR
0 NATIONAL RESEARCH CETRS          nEINL EEiCoETESnob~I
O   Agoi uoloI Rebo,sch loho,olo6f,,,KA8ETE   0  EMBU        T. A-h.
Aq,,coIIo,o Resoorh. KITALE      (D GARISSA
0   Ag-.c1Io1- R--orch MUGUGA         0  KAKAMEGA                                 /\
0   T,-,ro, E-,,orh, MUGUGA           0  KISII                                                  WUNDAyI                                        NDI jORTOWNS
0   A-lo1 H-oI-i,y R--ooih NAIVASHiA    S  MTWAPA                                                                                                                     DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
O   Aod Lo-,ds R-,00h, MARSABIT        S  PERKERRA                        T.A-                                                          Kltlff
0   Col- R-,ooh Fo-do-, RUIRU                                                                                             /NAtONALCAPTAL
O   Coion R,h, KIBOS                                                                                                                                                  MAIN ROADS
0   Fbo, R-,o,, KIBOS                                                                                               _A-IONAi-IRPORT
O   DyI-d R......h. KATUMANI                                                                                                               RASA
H. HU-- R0oo,-h, THIKA                        0          5        00        150       200 Kd-1-              \                                             of        INTERNATIONALAIRPORTS
0   brogrol,   0,0000- h, AHERO                __ I_I_I_I_____/_KWALE____
P            - D Pot  Rrr  DOOM                                I                                                                                                      DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
4D  To-ol B-do,og, TNGORI                                                       100 Mh,
ID  Pcoo B'oooIos, NIORO                                                                                                   7                                          SUB DISTRICT BOUNDAPiES    _
2     '0 p 1rehr, HO0zufr rorc,M                                                                                      To                                                                        w
-     0!  BoogooR-g roTRh, KlOKO                   The bo,-,doo, -oo,- de-ornoo,o ond oov  o W-1-dor o,,o,            D. , ESo.oo                                 -        PROVNCE BOUNDARIES
_h-                                   M, ho n  o, do no-,mlv on Ihe pod ol TI,e Wrld onE/
_    W  Ten 0,0001,1 IoAFol,o,. RERICH-lO  Groop, Ooy ~odgo,mo on *I,o lvogo 010100 ol 00y lr00rv,10   "K a[INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES o0
00I                                                 e,rdo,,ro'rl 0 o OoplOonc ol *uc Eoordo,'0.\ 












