Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2935 KE
                             Project Agreement
              (National Agricultural Research Project--Phase II)
                                 between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                  and
                    KENYA AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
                        Dated February 25, 1997
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2935 KE
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and KENYA AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE (KARI).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,400,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that KARI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agree-
ment;
     WHEREAS (B) by a Grant Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and KARI, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to KARI on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Grant Agreement; and
     WHEREAS KARI, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
Page  2
                               Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) KARI declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering, environmental and agricultural
research practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Association and KARI shall otherwise
agree, KARI shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) KARI shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions,
and without limitation thereto, KARI shall:
          (i)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
               Association, and furnish to the Association not later
               than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
               later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
               the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
               future operation of the Project; and
         (ii)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
               exchange views with KARI on said plan.
     Section 2.04. KARI shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Grant Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
KARI shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Grant Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) KARI shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of
the Project and the Program, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Grant Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  KARI shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the
performance by KARI of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Grant Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of KARI
     Section 3.01. KARI shall carry on its operations and conduct its
Page  3
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. KARI shall endeavor at all times to operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural research practices.
     Section 3.03. KARI shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. KARI shall participate fully in the Midterm Review
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement and,
to this end, shall: (a) prepare and submit such reports as the
Borrower and the Association may require for purposes of Section
3.06 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, and (b) thereafter
assist the Borrower in the preparation of the action plan referred
to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement and in
the implementation of such action plan.
     Section 3.05. KARI shall: (a) continue to maintain and operate
the ARF under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
and (b) administer the ARF in accordance with the relevant provisions
relating thereto as specified in the ARF Manual.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) KARI shall:
          (i)  maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
               accordance with sound accounting practices, its
               operations and financial condition and the resources
               and expenditures in respect of the Project; and
         (ii)  maintain separate records and accounts adequate to
               reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices,
               the operations and financial condition of ARF and the
               resources and expenditures of ARF under the Project.
     (b)  KARI shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses,
               statements of expenditure and related statements),
               as well as those for ARF, for each fiscal year
               audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any event not later than three months after the
               end of each such year, unaudited financial statements
               for both KARI and ARF;
        (iii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
               financial statements for such year as so audited, and
               (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
               such scope and in such detail as the Association
               shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iv)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and financial
               statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the
Page  4
               Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of KARI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date fifteen years after the date of this
               Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify KARI of this event.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspen-
sion under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS             248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.     82987 (FTCC)
                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                   197688 (TRT)
     For KARI:
          Director
          Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
          P.O. Box 57811
          Nairobi, Kenya
                                   Telex:
                                   22766
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KARI may be taken or executed by the Director
Page  5
or such other person or persons as the Director shall designate in
writing, and KARI shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                               Regional Vice President
                                                                Africa
               KENYA AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
               By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
                                             Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5
of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
     (a)  Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
more each.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic
          Contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  6
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (a)  Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,200,000 equi-
valent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equiva-
lent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more for goods and $500,000 or more for works, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consul-
tant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto
as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Association,
other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, shortlists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports
and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
each, or (b) contracts for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection
of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                         Implementation Program
1.   KARI shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures
Page  7
set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, KARI shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive such Manual or any provision thereof in a manner
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely
affect the implementation of the Project.
2.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, KARI shall:
     (a)  not later than December 1 in each year, submit to the
Association for its review and comments, draft annual work programs
for NRCs and RRCs (including a training program) and supporting
financing plans for the Project for the succeeding calendar year;
and
     (b)  not later than March 1 in each year, furnish to the
Association the work programs and financing plans referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof, as such programs and financing plans shall
have been revised to the satisfaction of the Association in the
course of the review referred to in paragraph (a) hereof and,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the
Project in the year in question on the basis of the said work
programs and financing plans, as so revised.
Agricultural Research
3.   In carrying out Part B of the Project, KARI shall:
     (a)  not later than 12 months after the Effective Date, prepare
and adopt an implementation plan for transferring responsibility for
financing research activities to the private sector;
     (b)  not later than the Midterm Review, submit to the Association
a progress report, satisfactory to the Association, on measures to
transfer financing responsibilities for research on industrial/cash
crops to the private sector, with particular emphasis on sugar and
pyrethrum; and
     (c)  not later than July 1, 1998, submit to the Association a
plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the rationalization of
its network of research centers and begin implementing such plan
not later than August 1, 1998.
4.   In carrying out Part B.5 of the Project, KARI shall implement
measures necessary to ensure that soil and tissue analysis services
for farmers are provided on a full cost-recovery basis, in accor-
dance with criteria acceptable to the Association.
Seeds Program
5.   In carrying out Part C of the Project, KARI shall develop a plan
for implementing a pilot seed program involving the formal and
informal seed production and distribution sectors.
Procurement
6.   KARI shall, not later than January 30 and July 30 of every year,
submit to the Association for review a semiannual procurement progress
report, in form and substance acceptable to the Association, which
will show, amongst other things: (a) type and number of awarded
contracts, (b) procurement in process, and (c) procurement processing
time.
Agricultural Research Fund (ARF)
7.   KARI shall be responsible for the overall management of ARF. ARF
shall be managed by a management committee assisted by a panel of
technical reviewers. KARI shall not change policies, procedures or
membership of the management committee without prior consultation
with the Borrower and the Association.
8.   In carrying out Part B.6 of the Project, KARI shall follow the
Page  8
procedures set out in the ARF Manual, and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, KARI shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive such Manual or any provision thereof so as to materially or
adversely affect the implementation of Part B.6 of the Project.
9.   KARI shall use the proceeds of the Credit allocated under
Category 5 of the table in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement for making research grants to KARI scientists, univer-
sities, private sector agencies, international institutions and
individuals who meet the criteria established in the ARF Manual,
provided, however, that:
     (a)  Research Grants shall not exceed $40,000 equivalent for
individual scientists and $100,000 equivalent for research
institutions or universities; and
     (b)  proposals for Research Grants shall be evaluated on a
competitive basis and according to a ranking system which favors
proposals that foster team effort, collaboration among institutions
and links with universities.
10.  KARI shall enter into a Research Grant Agreement with each
recipient of a research grant, under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association and in accordance with the ARF Manual,
which shall include the obligations of the recipients to:
     (a)  carry out the research approved by KARI,
     (b)  report periodically to KARI on the progress made in
carrying out the research, and
     (c)  use the research grant to finance research-related
operating costs on vehicles, including fuel, acquisition of office
supplies, utilities, research consumables, salaries for short-term
research assistants, travel, accommodation and printing costs.
