                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 29359

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (PPFI-P9150 PPFI-P9151 IDA-29350)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 39.7 MILLION

                              TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                     KENYA

                                    FOR THE

           SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP II)




                                  June 29, 2004




AFTS2
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 1004)

                                   Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings
                                         KShs. 78 = US$ 1
                                        US$ .013 = KShs. 1

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 - June 30

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AD       Assistant Director                        M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
ASAL     Arid and Semi-Arid Lands                  MIS        Management Information System
ATIRI    Agricultural Technology and Information   MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
         Response Initiative                       MTP        Medium Term Plan
CBO      Community-Based Organization              MTR        Mid Term Review
CD       Center Director                           NALEP      National Agricultural and Livestock Extension
CRAC     Center Research Advisory Committee                   Project
CTC      Center Technical Committees               NPT        National Performance Trials
FM       Financial Management                      NRC        National Research Committee
FFS      Farmer Field Schools                      NSDC       National Seeds Development Committee
FSU      Foundation Seed Unit                      OPV        Open Pollinated Varieties
HRD      Human Resources Development               QAG        Quality Assurance Group
IDA      International Development Agency          PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
KARI     Kenya Agricultural Research Institute     PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
KAPP     Kenya Agricultural Productivity Project   PSR        Project Status Report
KEPHIS   Kenya Plant Health Inspection Service     RCC        Research Co-ordination Committee
KETRI    Kenya Trypanosomiasis Research Institute  RRC        Regional Research Center
KEVAVAPI Kenya Veterinary Vaccines Production      RREAC      Regional Research/Extension Advisory Committee
         Institute                                 SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
KPI      Key Performance Indicators                SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
KRDS     Kenya Rural Development Strategy          USAID      United States Agency of International
KSU      KARI Seed Unit                                       Development




                                 Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                               Country Director    Makhtar Diop
                                Sector Manager     Karen Brooks
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Moctar Touré

                                            KENYA
           NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP II)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P001354                                                  Project Name: NARP II
Team Leader: Moctar Toure                                            TL Unit: GEF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: NARP II                                                  L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9150; PPFI-P9151;
                                                                                                     IDA-29350
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (62%); Central government
                            administration (38%)
                  Theme: Nutrition and food security (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Technology diffusion (P); Participation and civic engagement (P);
                            Other rural development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/01/1993                                     Effective: 05/26/1997                06/06/1997
     Appraisal: 02/03/1995                                         MTR: 03/01/1998                  05/01/2000
      Approval: 01/28/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Kenya/Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
                      Other Partners:      European Union (EU)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Makhtar Diop                                   Harold Wackman
Sector Manager:                 Karen McConnell Brooks                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Moctar Toure                                   Edgardo Quisumbing
ICR Primary Author:             Astrid Agostini; FAO


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project's original objective was to "contribute to food security, poverty alleviation and environmental
protection by raising agricultural productivity and incomes on a sustained basis through technology
generation and dissemination in close cooperation with farmers and extensionists, with particular emphasis
on technologies which take into account indigenous knowledge and are appropriate for small holders and
women" (Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)). The wording of this objective, like that of many projects of
comparable vintage, is overly broad, dependent on factors outside the control of the project, and difficult to
measure. The wording is, however, consistent with guidance provided to task teams at the time,
encouraging them to focus on the long term outcomes rather than shorter term visible outputs of the project.
The core element of the objective actionable through the project and during the duration of its
implementation is the improvement in generation and dissemination of agricultural technology.

NARP II built on NARP I, which had supported essential infrastructure for agricultural research, training
and upgrading of human resources in KARI (The Kenya Agricultural Research Institute), the establishment
of the Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) to finance collaborative research, and the development of
improved technologies for crops, livestock production and natural resource management. NARP II was
intended to complement the ongoing Second National Extension Project (NEP II) also financed by IDA.

3.2 Revised Objective:

In the course of supervision of the project, the original objective was interpreted to include institutional
changes needed to accomplish it, and the wording of the objective in project status reports includes explicit
mention of changes within KARI. The Project Status Reports (PSR) state the objective as "contribute to
food security, poverty alleviation and environmental protection by raising agricultural production and
incomes of smallholders through the transformation of KARI into a leaner and more efficient organization,
implementation of priority research programs and effective dissemination of improved technologies, and
provision of good quality seeds or planting materials of recommended varieties."

The Mid Term Review (MTR) referred to the "need to revisit the development objective to take account of
macro-economic and institutional changes which have taken place since project effectiveness and, on this
basis, redefine monitorable indicators and goals to be achieved by the end of the project." The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was not amended because the changes were considered by the task
team to be within the scope of the very broad original wording. The MTR transmittal letter stated that
"given the longer timeframe required for improved technologies to show demonstrable impact, the success
of NARP II would be gauged primarily on the extent to which its institutional development objective will
have been attained by project closure." The MTR also specified that during the remaining implementation
period, NARP II should put greater emphasis on technology transfer and dissemination activities in view of
the severe capacity constraints of the extension service.

In light of the very broad wording of the objectives, the authors of this ICR will rate the project according
to whether: i) the institutional framework for generation and dissemination of agricultural technology in
Kenya was strengthened through the activities of the project; and ii) whether the technologies generated
and adopted contributed to increments in agricultural productivity and incomes relative to the base period.

Among the lessons noted later in the ICR will be reflections on the wording of project objectives and on
transparency in stating why and how project activities have been revised. In the present case the changes at



                                                      - 2 -

the mid-term review de facto recognized that the deterioration in the incentive environment in agriculture
and in the performance of the extension system militated a shift in the research system. The shift
increased focus on preserving capacity to undertake research in the long run, enhancing outreach to enrich
research in the absence of a viable extension service, and effecting important institutional changes to
position the system for improved longer term performance. This is obliquely stated in the report of the
mid-term review, but it could have been stated openly.

3.3 Original Components:

The original NARP II had the following three components: 1) Institution Building; 2) Research Program
Implementation; and 3) Seeds Program.

1. Institution Building: To assist KARI in becoming more efficient in carrying out problem-oriented and
    adaptive research in accordance with the highest national priorities and in promoting dissemination of
    proven technology to farmers. The focus was on research management and programming, including
    monitoring and evaluation (M&E), financial management (FM), human resources development (HRD)
    and information management through an integrated system

2. Research Program Implementation. To support technology development, technology adaptation to
    specific agro-ecological and socioeconomic environments and the improvement of technology delivery
    systems. In particular, the project was to support i) Adaptive research programs implemented through
    the Regional Research Centers (RRCs), ii) Crop research, iii) Livestock research, iv) Natural resource
    management research, v) Socioeconomics research, vi) Biotechnology, and vii) the operations of the
    Agricultural Research Fund.

3. Seeds Program. To finance a pilot scheme to develop a sustainable national seed system. Maintaining
    varieties needed for multiplication, and multiplying breeder, pre-basic and basic seeds. Basic seed was
    to be produced by financially autonomous Foundation Seed Units (FSUs), at selected KARI Research
    Centers. Commercial seed would be produced by the formal and informal private sectors. Two pilot
    FSUs (later renamed KARI seeds units (KSUs) would be initiated at center level and additional units
    would be established during the course of the project. It was assumed that the project would build upon
    the full liberalization of the seed sub-sector, which was only partially achieved during the project
    period. The requirement of certification was to be dropped for the informal seed sector. Plant
    quarantine services were to be transferred from KARI to an inspection authority- the Kenya Plant
    Health Inspectorate Service (KEPHIS).

3.4 Revised Components:

Following the MTR and in view of the termination of IDA support to the extension program in Kenya,
NARP II gave greater emphasis to activities of technology transfer and dissemination, through the
introduction of the Agricultural Technology Information and Response Initiative (ATIRI). The project
description and the disbursement categories in the DCA were amended accordingly to create the ATIRI
component. ATIRI sought to improve farmers' ability to make demands on agricultural service providers,
to make research responsive to farmers' needs, and to enhance the effectiveness of intermediary
organizations and farmers' groups in meeting the knowledge needs of their clients and members. The
creation of the ATIRI program was intended to demonstrate the newer approaches to provision of
agricultural advisory services, and particularly the emphasis on demands of users of technology, at a time
and in a context when a larger scale reform of the extension service in Kenya was not feasible. ATIRI
accepted proposals from existing community-based organizations willing to acquire and apply agricultural
technologies to improve their livelihoods. ATIRI was to primarily finance training, exchange visits and



                                                      - 3 -

selected inputs, as well as backstopping from KARI scientists and intermediaries.

Under Institutional Development particular areas were emphasized for immediate attention during the
MTR: i) Implementation of the staff rationalization program, including the streamlining of the
organizational and management structure of KARI HQ and Centers; ii) Rationalization of the research
center network, to include realignment of functions and mandates of research centers and relinquishing
control or closure of marginal centers or stations with limited capacity for implementing effective research
programs; iii) Titling of KARI lands; iv) Resolution of KARI's accumulated debt; v) Timely flow of
adequate funds from IDA and GoK to KARI; and vi) Delegation of financial control systems and
responsibility to the research centers.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry was rated satisfactory by QAG, but Bank inputs and processes were rated marginal.
The ICR concurs with this assessment (see discussion under 7.1 and 7.4.).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

NARP II was implemented during a period of deterioration in global commodity prices, decline in Kenya's
terms of trade, poor economic management and declining governance within the country, and the partial
withdrawal of the domestic and foreign private sector and many donor partners. Many projects in the
World Bank's portfolio performed poorly and/or were closed. Over the period of project implementation
(1997 through 2003) crop production in aggregate grew at a modest pace of about 2% annually. Cereal
yields on average remained roughly flat, and maize yields declined. Although the project clearly did not
succeed in reversing the overall economic deterioration, it did perform creditably on a reasonably defined
narrow mandate of agricultural research consistent with its objectives, and disseminated research results to
farmers in sufficient numbers to demonstrate impact. NARP II resulted in a fundamental change in
KARI's institutional culture reflected in an increase in on-farm adaptive research and greater contact
between farmers and scientists. While undertaking these internal changes, KARI maintained its strong
reputation as a research institute in the region. As a consequence of the generally good performance of the
implementing agency (KARI), implementation of another important but troubled project was shifted to
KARI's responsibility in lieu of closing down the project in its entirety.

The project did not put in place a systematic effort to monitor indicators of the broad objectives related to
agricultural productivity, food security, and environmental stewardship. (see borrower comments) Lack of
a rigorous monitoring framework can be attributed in part to poor statement of the objectives and in part to
laxity with regard to monitoring by both the Bank and the Government, and the monitoring and evaluation
must be recognized as the chief weakness in implementation of the project. Instead more piecemeal
measures of impacts directly related to project activities were assessed to provide a limited and modestly
defined quantitative measure of accomplishments of the project. The draft Beneficiary Assessment (BA)
carried out in 2003 shows positive economic benefits (relative to the base year) from hybrid maize and
other improved crop varieties, including sorghum, Irish Potato and wheat. The BA also highlights low to
moderate awareness of some technologies and partial adoption of others. The results on awareness have
been questioned on methodological grounds by KARI, and the study has not yet been finalized. The poor
performance and collapse in funding of extension services severely constrained awareness of new
technologies, and the ATIRI program was not intended fully to compensate for the collapse of extension.



                                                      - 4 -

The finding of the beneficiary assessment that producers are only partially aware of the technologies
generated by KARI is fully consistent with the logic of constraints during the implementation period, and
with the natural time lag between dissemination and adoption. The BA results on partial adoption
additionally suggest that research does not sufficiently address agronomic management practices, and that
recommendations may not be suited to the low-cost/low-input and mixed inter-cropping/livestock systems
in which the majority of poor farmers operate. Despite progress in adaptive research and field contact, on
balance, a bias towards commodity research, especially crop research still exists.

With respect to achieving the institutional development objective, the recent External Program Review
(EPR) commended KARI for developing into a strong and competent research institution over the last ten
years. The reduction in staff and improvement of the scientists to support staff ratio increases efficiency
and reduces the financing requirement. Progress on financial management, land titling and debt reduction
has further strengthened KARI's institutional position. The seeds program established a stronger system for
maintenance, multiplication and distribution of high quality seed, including open-pollinated varieties not
usually available through commercial channels, and increased availability of seeds to around 360,000
farmers in the semi-arid lands who before did not have access to improved seed of these variety. The timely
availability of high quality seeds at affordable prices continues to be a constraint to adoption, confirming
the importance of the KSU activities. For reasons given below, during the implementation period of NARP
II the KSUs did not achieve financial autonomy sufficient to operate on a commercial basis. (see borrower
comments)

ATIRI was launched after the MTR to respond to the increased emphasis on outreach and dissemination,
and to reduced extension delivery. In its three years of operation, ATIRI has further strengthened
researcher-farmer and, in many cases, research-extension linkages, and has opened up new opportunities
for feedback from farmers' adoption practices into the research agenda. The rapid implementation progress
of ATIRI is commendable. On its own ATIRI could not make a significant impact on outreach and
dissemination, and it was not intended to do so. Rather, it can be considered a pilot undertaken during a
period when larger scale institutional reform in extension would not have been feasible, but was clearly on
the horizon for the future. ATIRI has directly benefited around 15,000 farmers, and even assuming that a
multiple of these will derive indirect benefits through technology transfer, the numbers remain small.

KARI has shown institutional maturity by subjecting its activities and procedures to rigorous external
review, in the EPR and the BA. The EPR found that the quality and efficiency of research carried out by
KARI remains mixed. Further, some of the key areas for improvement in research focus and
implementation highlighted by these and other reviews carried out towards the end of NARP II were
supposed to have been addressed by NARP II. They include: i) Institutionalization of an integrated
agro-ecological and socioeconomic approach to research rather than a factor or commodity based approach
(see borrower comments); ii) Prioritization and focus of research activities on priority programs to
increase impact; iii) Rationalization of the research center network and laboratories; iv) Establishment of
an integrated Management Information System (MIS); and v) Commercialization of seed production and
laboratory services. NARP II only made partial progress in these areas, and KARI recognizes the need for
further improvement in these fields as highlighted in its Medium Term Plan (MTP). However, while
recognition and analysis of areas for improvement is commendable, it is the implementation of significant
changes that must constitute the outcome of a substantial investment project.

Overall, during NARP II and with the support of IDA funding, KARI undertook institutional reforms that
strengthened the capacity for agricultural research in Kenya, managed research programs of generally high
quality, and developed technologies that, when applied on a pilot basis, proved successful in raising
productivity and incomes. On this basis the overall project performance is rated satisfactory. The


                                                      - 5 -

rating is qualified as marginally satisfactory because weakness in extension and in the overall incentive
environment for farmers vitiated the short term impact of the research program, for reasons elaborated
below.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Institution Building.

NARP II improved KARI's physical and financial position. Major civil works were carried out successfully
at Headquarters (HQ) and at Mtwapa, Embu, Muguga, Njoro and Katumani. The titling of KARI lands
has made significant progress since the MTR. KARI now holds 19 titles equivalent to about 40% of its
land. Faster progress is hindered by the slow speed of the administrative processes and by the high cost of
surveying. KARI has also taken decisive action to address its debt to the GOK by working with the
Treasury and MOA and initiating regular payments to relinquish the outstanding balance. The staff
rationalization process, supported by EU funding, has led to the retrenchment of 624 non-scientist staff.
The reduction of staff was not only due to retrenchment and natural attrition but also due to transfer of
some of KARI centres together with staff to new institutions such as the Kenya plant health and
inspectorate services (240 staff), and Kenya Sugar research foundation (80 staff).Overall, KARI staffing
figures dropped from 5,307 in 1997 to 3,321 in 2003 and the scientist/support staff ratio increased from
1:10 to 1:6.5 over the same period (international norm 1:5). The retrenchment process was done in a
manner satisfactory to IDA, but was funded with parallel financing from the EU. A second phase of
retrenchment targeted at improving the skill mix, and involving an additional 300 staff, is expected once the
human resource strategy is finalized.

Research Management and Programming. NARP II emphasized the importance of improving relevance,
quality and impact, of research activities. KARI has moved towards attaining these goals, but a number of
challenges remain:

    l Priority setting and planning: The EPR found that by and large KARI's research program
         adequately addresses national goals and priorities. However, priority setting is still not focused
         sufficiently on the farming reality of poor farmers, and a system for regularly updating priorities is
         not yet in place. In 1991 a comprehensive priority setting exercise was carried out using the
         economic surplus approach, and the identified priorities (commodities and factors) were broadly
         reconfirmed in 1996. Priorities were then established for many commodity and factor programs.
         Relying on the economic surplus approach alone may not be appropriate for a project targeting
         poverty alleviation. At Regional Research Centers (RRCs) many diagnostic surveys and PRAs
         have been conducted, but they vary widely in quality and effectiveness with respect to influencing
         the regional research agenda. In addition, Center Research Advisory Committees (CRACs) are
         being used to assess proposal relevance on an annual basis. Priority setting has not yet resulted in a
         well focused research agenda, and funds are still spread thinly. The eco-regional study undertaken
         in 2001 uses key-enterprise system (KES) profiles and identifies three priority KES per district.
         This has been used to allocate priority KES for each adaptive research center but does not seem to
         have been fed into the commodity and factor programs.(see borrower comments) Neither the 1991,
         1996 nor 2001 priority setting exercise used a production systems approach even though this stated
         as a guiding principle for NARP II. A continuous process of updating priorities was not
         established. KARI prepared a strategic plan for 2000-2010 which highlights its vision and major
         tasks in technology development, adaptation, dissemination and adoption, as well as in influencing
         agricultural policies and managing KARI efficiently and raising funds. The strategic objectives do
         not have an explicit poverty focus. The Medium Term Plan (MTP) 2003-2008 represents the



                                                      - 6 -

  implementation framework for the Strategic Plan. It outlines planned research programs and
  budgets for crops, livestock and range, land and water, biotechnology and Socioeconomics, but not
  for adaptive research.

l Project approval process: The establishment of CRACs in all centers has enhanced screening for
  project approval in line with relevance criteria, particularly for adaptive research. However,
  funding allocation between centers and projects is made at HQ, and the allocation process is
  currently not well linked with the screening process. CRACs exist in all centers but are more
  established in the RRCs than most national research centers (NRCs), and are composed of
  stakeholders from the mandate area as well as scientific peers. The regularity of CRAC meetings
  varies. Participation of the concerned ADs and scientists from other centers to increase quality
  control and foster center-to-center exchanges is not always ensured. At the meetings research
  proposals are screened for relevance and merit, and accepted projects are forwarded for funding to
  HQ, often in prioritized order. CRAC does not have means or authority to allocate funding or to
  monitor performance, although some centers also report on progress of approved activities. Prior to
  the CRAC, proposals are subjected to a technical review by the center-internal Pre-CRAC. The
  quality of the technical review varies with its membership especially when external reviewers are
  invited. The CRAC process is well suited for the screening of adaptive research activities, which
  are intended to cater for the needs of a certain catchment area characterized by specific production
  systems, but the review of national or strategic research programs may require a different forum.
  While the CRAC process is transparent, there are no clear guidelines for the allocation of funding
  to specific programs at national level. At HQ, the envisaged Research Co-ordination Committee
  (RCC) has never become operational. Until around the year 2000, the Donor Co-ordination Unit
  took up this function. Currently, no transparent process exists that allocates funds between and
  within programs in line with national and regional priorities, including re-alignments between
  funding for strategic and adaptive research. (see borrower comments)

l M&E and quality control: No comprehensive M&E framework was put in place during NARP II
  to track performance and impact, despite a number of consultancies and internal working groups
  on M&E and MIS. Mechanisms for quality control have been established at center and HQ levels,
  but their impact on screening and evaluating project performance is not sufficient, as demonstrated
  by the EPR's finding that the quality and efficiency of research at KARI remains mixed. At the
  institute level, M&E is particularly weak. The Program M&E Unit, which in line with the Strategic
  Plan was to report to the Deputy Director Research and Technology (DDRT) was never
  established. M&E responsibilities currently rest with the overloaded Assistant Director (AD) for
  Socioeconomics. For NARP II a logframe was never put together and key performance indicators
  were not monitored during implementation. At the project level, monitoring of project progress is
  based primarily on quarterly and annual reports with respect to the indicators outlined in individual
  project logframes. These reports are submitted to the respective AD. Reporting is not always
  timely, and only recently has a standard format been adopted, which includes both technical and
  financial progress. Evaluation of impact and adoption are carried out selectively and only the
  one-off EPR provided an in-depth analysis of the quality of research. Several electronic modules
  were introduced during NARP II to improve information flow to managers, but as pointed out in
  the recent draft strategy on information management, some important M&E data are still only
  available on paper, and the various packages are not linked in an integrated MIS. On quality
  control, the pre-CRAC screens the quality of proposals, but does not review ongoing research in
  detail. The EPR also pointed out that many project proposals are passed in spite of weak or
  non-existing literature review of previous work done in the field. Centers have established different
  mechanisms and committees for quality control. In view of their overwhelming workload, the ADs


                                               - 7 -

        do not currently fulfill their quality control responsibilities. Review of quarterly reports, many of
        which are poorly prepared, does not result in sufficient feedback to the PIs. Failure to perform
        rarely leads to termination of the activity. The role of program coordinators (PC) in quality control
        is not well defined, and those PCs who are not supported by a particular donor budget do not have
        the means to take responsibility for regular reviews of research quality. The respective authority of
        program coordinators, ADs and Center Directors (CDs) to conduct evaluations is not always clear.
        At the institutional level, important fora for quality review are the biannual KARI conferences, but
        not all scientists participate.

   l Center rationalization. During NARP II KARI refined its focus on core research functions by
        transferring a number of specialized activities identified in the SAR to other bodies, but the
        intended rationalization of the core research stations has not yet been undertaken. Plant inspection
        activities and sugar research were transferred to the Kenya Plant Health Inspection Services and
        the Kenya Sugar Research Foundation respectively. The spinning off of research on other
        commercial crops to the private sector was hindered by the bad performance of cotton and
        pyrethrum. The Veterinary Research Labs were closed, and most veterinary scientists from
        Muguga were transferred to various centers. As a result, KARI now has a network of 21 national
        and regional research centers, compared to 24 at appraisal, plus sub-stations and testing sites. The
        SAR envisaged a center rationalization study to start in 1997. The MTR reiterated the urgency of
        this matter and requested a time-bound implementation plan by the end of 2000, as well as
        immediate action to close marginal centers and stations. In 2001 KARI commissioned an
        eco-regional study to support center rationalization. The study collected many data and used
        criteria such as agro-climatic zones, proximity to centers, population density, and key enterprises
        but failed to adequately take into account dominant integrated production systems, or
        socioeconomic variables. In the MTP, centers are renamed, mandates adjusted, and sub-stations
        and centers regrouped, but all 21 centers are maintained (5 as sub-centers) which suggests that
        operating and maintenance costs will not be reduced significantly. The study noted a concentration
        of centers in high rainfall areas, which has not been addressed in the MTP. The study also noted
        mismatches between center mandate and its staffing. This could not be addressed in the MTP, as
        the human resources strategy, which should have complemented the center rationalization plan, is
        not complete.

Financial management. During NARP II KARI successfully upgraded the financial management system
and decentralized financial operations to the centers. KARI has established a well structured Accounting
Department composed of qualified staff at HQ and the centers. An independent "Internal Audit Unit"
reports directly to the Director. Following the installation in 1995 of the first computerized financial record
system in KARI, under NARP II the system was upgraded to a more advanced and dynamic software
(FINPRO) in May 1999, after difficulties and delays in implementation nearly led to a suspension of IDA
funding support. Staff were trained in the new system and despite staff attrition the system remains fully
operational and generates key financial reports, which meet the need of managers and budget holders. Since
July 2000 reports are also generated at the center level. Financial management was further decentralized by
the issuance of an authorization to CDs to operate separate bank accounts to manage individual sources of
funding at the center level. Further upgrading of the financial management system is required to fit into an
MIS. Delays in the flow of funds to PIs over the first few years occured, when advances were based on a
fixed two months average requirement regardless of work plan requirements. Receipts and replenishment
requests could only be submitted once the full advance was spent. These rules were adjusted and PIs may
now seek additional funds to meet seasonal demand over and above the average allocation and are
encouraged to account on at least a monthly basis to ensure continuous liquidity.




                                                       - 8 -

Human Resources Development and Management: NARP II sponsored training of scientists and support
staff, introduced a performance based appraisal system and improved staff remuneration. In 1997 KARI
developed a comprehensive training plan until 2002, to be funded by several donors. IDA provided support
for long-term academic training for 39 scientists and 6 support staff (41 MScs and 4 PhDs), and short-term
training for 60 support staff. Much of the planned support staff training especially for accounts, IT
supplies and maintenance was not carried out because of the 6 month training restriction for non-scientists
imposed by IDA. 70 management staff and scientists were trained on research approaches and methods,
and 200 KARI staff were sponsored to participate in the biannual conferences. Training in socioeconomic
methods (mainly funded by other donors) has resulted in some change of attitudes with respect to adaptive
research, but was not systematically followed up. KARI started a human resource study in 2003, which
should lead to a human resource strategy (HRS). The strategy should, however, have been an integral part
of the development of the MTP finalized earlier, to determine discrepancies in staffing over centers and
programs. A new performance based staff appraisal system was introduced in 2000/2001 and scientists
have been assessed twice. Results have been compiled and the first round resulted in promotions or
demotions, while the second round is still awaiting follow-up. The assessment criteria primarily focus on
scientific results and outputs and the current scoring system implicitly places lower value on adaptive
research, ATIRI, seeds activities and other likely avenues for technology up-scaling. A staff appraisal
system for support and management staff is under development. During NARP II staff remuneration has
increased significantly, and the retirement age has recently been raised from 55 to 65.

Information Management: Internal information management and access to external information remain a
challenge at the end of NARP II. KARI introduced a number of modules that were expected to improve the
information flow to managers within the organization, i.e., FINPRO, INFORM and PERPAY. Even though
many resources have been allocated the various packages are still not linked and fail to provide a fully
integrated information system. Technical reporting is not fully linked to financial management. In
September 2003 KARI discussed this and related issues in an ICT workshop which should contribute to
KARI's planned ICT strategy. In KARI, the Division for Information and Documentation Services (IDS)
has the mandate to support research efforts and scientists, and provide results to clients of research. The
unit was only set up in the late 1990s and, although still underfunded and understaffed to service the full
information needs of KARI, is providing some essential services, such as access to databases and searches,
at HQ. Timely service provision to centers is problematic. The centers also have insufficient access to
information and documentation to prepare and support their research activities. Many centers do not have
internet and e-mail services, or limited access courtesy of a particular project. KARI commissioned a
connectivity study in 1998, but follow-up has been limited to a local area at HQ and wide area networks in
3 centers. So far IDS has not been able to archive internal publications or publish an annual list of
publications. This reduces the accessibility of KARI information to outsiders. The unit also edits and
produces all KARI publications, including high quality reports and leaflets. During NARP II, 42 English
language leaflets were produced, mostly before 2000, and funded by other donors. KARI has also
collaborated with Factual Films and KBC to disseminate information.

Overall, the ICR rates the achievements of the institution building component as satisfactory, as sufficient
progress in the transformation of KARI to to a leaner, more efficient organization capable of carrying out
priority agricultural research was achieved.

Research Programs.

KARI implements 38 research programs which are coordinated by NRCs, and an adaptive research
program that is largely based in RRCs and is implemented on-farm. Programs have recently been
consolidated to form 7 programs with a total of 36 sub-programs. Willingness to improve the content and


                                                     - 9 -

strategies in research programs is clearly demonstrated in the commissioning of the EPR and BA.

Over 136 technologies have been released by KARI between 1996-2003, including high yielding sorghum,
climbing bean, disease free tissue culture banana, potatoes, sugar cane planting material, Dual Purpose
Goats (DPG), small-scale drip irrigation, options for soil fertility replenishment and recapitalization, CCP
vaccine, ECF vaccine, CMD resistant cassava, MSV resistant maize, flower varieties, high quality
mangoes, and macadamia varieties. These considerable achievements are qualified by a number of
considerations:

   l Focus of KARI research. Overall presentations of the KARI research program under NARP II
        with lists of a large number of individual research projects, indicate a commodity or factor focus
        rather than an integrated, holistic approach to production or farming systems that was envisaged in
        the SAR. An integrated agro-ecological and socioeconomic approach rather than a factor or
        commodity approach is required to address priority problems, yet co-ordination and collaboration
        between research programs appears weak. (see borrower comments)

   l Integrating socioeconomic factors into the research agenda. The SAR urged an increased focus
        on the economics of agricultural production and CRACs often raise issues of marketability and
        profitability. However, annual KARI and center reports show that profitability and risk analysis in
        commodity or factor programs is still weak and that the focus on the whole continuum from
        production at the farm level all the way to marketing and utilization is still underdeveloped. This
        may in part be explained by the capacity constraints in the Socioeconomics unit. The SAR
        anticipated increased availability of data and information on project progress (see also M&E),
        adoption rates and impact of KARI technologies, but during NARP II these were not collected on a
        systematic basis. KARI commissioned two impact assessment studies. The results of the 2000
        impact assessment, which pointed to widespread adoption of a number of key technologies, is
        hampered by insufficient field data and methodological constraints. The draft Beneficiary
        Assessment found that several of the technologies have not yet made large-scale impacts in the
        mandated center areas and that adoption is often partial. Technology adoption is partly influenced
        by the agro-ecological appropriateness of the technology, and KARI has been able to address this,
        but less attention has been paid to the adaptability of recommended practices to socioeconomic
        conditions and farming systems, and their accessibility. Current recommended practices may not be
        suited to an economic situation of low-cost, low-input, mixed intercropping-livestock systems,
        which is common to most small scale farming systems in Kenya. However, technology adoption
        and feedback into the research agenda is also related to the quality of the research-extension-farmer
        linkages, and has been negatively affected by the poor performance and low funding levels of the
        public extension services.

   l Strategic versus adaptive research. The EPR suggests that the shift to applied and adaptive
        research under NARP II has been too extreme, endangering the capacity of KARI to address
        pertinent strategic research issues. However, regional and global agricultural research institutes
        and networks continuously develop technologies and new approaches. These could be adapted for
        local needs. This requires access to this large knowledge and information base through increased
        collaborative efforts, IT technologies, and scientists' ability to acquire and evaluate knowledge
        from elsewhere. KARI could be more pro-active in identifying these technologies and innovative
        approaches. The project database shows a large number of collaborators, but KARI does not
        utilize this asset fully in terms of adapting international research outputs and in learning through
        collaboration.




                                                      - 10 -

To comment on selected individual research programs:

  l The EPR results. The EPR which reviewed a selection of research projects across programs (not
      all IDA funded) found that the quality and efficiency of research carried out by KARI remains
      mixed. Biotechnology was singled out for good performance, and the soil and water management
      programs were commended for relevance and high international standards, building on strong
      collaboration and networks, and participatory approaches on the ground. Identified areas of
      weakness were animal production research, and within the crop research program, the capacity for
      IPM, as well as the insufficient focus on testing in real farm conditions across agro-ecological
      zones.

  l Adaptive research (or regional research in NARP II terminology). The EPR found a rather
      arbitrary division for adaptive/applied research between the disciplinary programs on the one hand
      and the regional research program on the other. This suggests that the budgetary figure which
      indicates that only 30% of originally allocated IDA funds have been spent on adaptive research
      may be misleading, but it also questions the utility of maintaining a separate regional research
      program rather than mainstreaming adaptive/applied research into all research programs. The
      MTP does not include a projected adaptive research program. Under NARP II, ten centers were
      given the mandate to institutionalize the farming systems approach (FSA), and the adaptive
      research program was strengthened. Many diagnostic studies were carried out and on farm
      experiments were implemented. FSA was applied at the diagnostic stage and successfully identified
      constraints, but it was rarely applied to the formulation of the research agenda, project design,
      implementation and M&E, which would be required to mainstream the FSA approach and ensure
      that the systems focus shapes the research agenda and programs.

  l Socioeconomics: The unit is stretched beyond capacity to perform its functions in impact
      assessment, biometrics, policy analysis and marketing. Frequency of turnover and conflicting
      demands between stand-alone research and contribution to biological research programs jeopardize
      the quality of research outputs. The contribution of biometricians is valued by other scientists, but
      staff constraints reduce the capacity to deliver. The quality of impact assessments is compromised
      by inadequacy of data, in particular on baselines, but also by less than rigorous analysis. Impact
      assessments carried out in collaboration with other institutions are of better quality, suggesting that
      further collaboration should be sought. Greater emphasis should have been placed on training
      biological scientists in basic impact assessment techniques, and providing backstopping in order to
      increase the "mainstreaming" of basic economic analysis in the research programs and reduce
      dependence upon this small unit. Policy and market analysis assignments could be contracted out to
      organizations with greater capacity in the respective fields. Failing this, stronger collaboration with
      other researchers would be beneficial.

  l Agricultural Research Fund: The ARF has played a positive role in enhancing research
      collaboration, but sustained funding is not ensured. The ARF was established as a sinking fund in
      1990 under the NARP I to fund non-KARI scientists in both the public and private sector. IDA
      support to the ARF became fully operational in 1998. Since 1997 the ARF received 623 proposals
      of which 95 were approved. An ARF impact study and the EPR differ in their assessment as to
      whether this reflects a particularly rigorous screening process or simply the low quality of many
      proposals submitted. In either case, there are significant transaction costs to process any one
      project that eventually is funded. Under NARP II KARI scientists were eligible to submit
      proposals to the ARF. This enhanced collaboration between KARI staff and other scientists in 90%
      of the projects and improved team effort, collaboration among institutions, and linkages with


                                                   - 11 -

        universities. ARF is the only competitive research funding mechanism that can sponsor relevant
        agricultural research that reflects the country's priority needs, but the selected projects were not
        always in line with identified national priorities. Although the attraction of a diversified funding
        base was an explicit goal for the ARF in NARP II, since USAID and DFID pulled out, the ARF is
        left entirely dependent on IDA, save for GOK contributions for staff salaries and some operating
        expenses. So far neither private nor multi-donor funds have been mobilized as the SAR had
        envisaged. The option to create an endowment fund, discussed during the MTR, was only recently
        followed up with concrete action, including a study tour and the creation of a task force. Other
        future options suggested by the MTR were food aid monetization, debt conversion, royalties,
        private sector sponsorship and increased GOK contributions.

   l ATIRI. ATIRI made quick progress in establishing itself as KARI's main outreach initiative, and
        the results are commendable. KARI must be commended for the swift action in setting up the new
        and innovative Initiative following the MTR, and responding to the particular challenge raised by
        the collapse of the extension system. By the end of 2000, nine pilot centers had started ATIRI
        projects. Currently, 16 centers participate in ATIRI with a total of 225 projects covering a wide
        variety of technologies. Farmers collaborating in these projects with KARI number around 15,000
        and indirect beneficiaries of the improved technologies are estimated to be at least ten times
        greater. Total spending on ATIRI after 3 years of operation was only a fraction of what was set
        aside following the MTR reallocation. Slower than expected progress in rolling out activities can
        be attributed to the demanding administrative procedures and to the high demands on time of
        scientists and administrative staff in implementing ATIRI projects. The requirement to finalize
        projects before project closure has limited the effective time to start and implement ATIRI projects
        to approximately 2 years. Greater progress in implementing ATIRI could have benefited from a
        swift move to a decentralized implementation and administrative structure, giving centers greater
        authority to select, fund, monitor and evaluate ATIRI projects in their mandate areas. Although
        swift decentralization was envisaged in the original ATIRI proposal prepared during the MTR and
        subsequently highlighted by supervision mission agreements, the ATIRI process remains heavily
        dependent on HQ. Further capacity building of centers for ATIRI implementation is a priority to
        facilitate this decentralization. The BA highlighted that perceived benefits of individual ATIRI
        projects include improved food security, reduced poverty and drudgery, better living standards,
        improved nutrition and health, higher standards of education, acquisition of knowledge and skills
        and self-reliance (of women). The most significant issue raised by ATIRI so far, is the danger of
        being seen as an "input supply" rather than a technology transfer initiative, which must be
        confronted by a rigorous screening of projects and applicants.

Overall, the ICR rates the research program component as satisfactory, having generated a substantial
body of technology, and attempted to disseminate the same to Kenyan farmers.

Seeds Program.

A manager was appointed for the seeds program and the FSU was established in May 1997. It was
renamed KARI Seed Unit (KSU) to conform with the existing terms used in the Seeds and Plant Varieties
Act. The expected outputs of the seed component were: i) seeds of recommended varieties available to
farmers, ii) improved seed processing and distribution system, iii) five commercial seed industry
development units (SIDU) established, iv) five KSUs in operation, and v) liberalized seed market
(discussed in Section 5 below).

Availability of recommended seeds. The key activities in ensuring availability of seeds are to maintain


                                                     - 12 -

varieties needed for multiplication, and to multiply breeder, pre-basic and basic seeds. Despite serious
delays in the procurement of equipment and construction in the first years, which are the main explanatory
factors for the shortfall in utilization of IDA funds allocated at appraisal (60%), the MTR found that
reasonable progress was achieved. This was in part due to other donors (USAID) who supported
operational expenses. From 1997 to 2003, KSU purified and maintained 157 out of 173 recorded KARI
varieties populations and inbred lines, produced 501 tons of breeder, pre-basic and basic seeds of maize,
sorghum, millet, beans, cowpea, pigeon-pea, green gram, dolichos, wheat, cassava, potatoes and oil crop
varieties, and significant quantities of seedlings, cuttings, corms and cormels. The multiplication work is
based on production planning for the classes of seeds, but not on market and demand surveys. It is
therefore difficult to assess the extent to which KSU meets the demand for seeds and whether the high
levels of stock in some KSUs are justified. An important achievement is the maintenance and multiplication
of open pollinated varieties (OPVs) adapted to arid and semi-arid lands (ASALs), which mainstream
commercial seed companies, generally do not supply. KSU estimates that over 360,000 small-scale farmers
in the ASAL have benefited from KSU seeds. KARI has signed license agreements with six seed companies
that produce and market KARI varieties.

Improved seed processing and distribution, establishment of SIDUs. The KSU has adopted an effective
strategy for the production of OPV basic seed through a consortium of NGOs, CBOs and local stockists.
Three mobile seed cleaners were recently purchased which these groups can hire to process their seed. The
KSU license has been used to assist twelve SIDUs in producing, cleaning and packaging seeds for
certification by KEPHIS. The SIDUs are constituted by 250 farmers and have been supported by USAID
through Winrock International. The External Programme Review (EPR) of KARI found that the impact of
the quality seeds was positive in terms of improved yields and better resistance. One member of a SIDU
and two SIDUs have applied to be registered as seed merchants, and with their own license they can buy,
process and market seed from the group members. However, further support may be required to ensure
sustainability of the system.

Operational KSUs. Twelve breeding centers (KSUs) have maintenance and breeder seed production in
system. A detailed study of the operations at KSU Katumani, Tigoni and Thika show that the estimated
seed production costs do not include staff salaries or all indirect costs like overheads, depreciation of
equipment, and costs of working capital. Despite the explicit requirement stated in the SAR and reiterated
by supervision missions that KSUs be based on a commercial footing, it seems that the commercial aspects
have not been prioritized during project implementation. With the exception of developing a business plan,
recommended technical assistance in seed marketing, promotion and market development and a feasibility
study were not taken up. KSU has relied on the Socioeconomics Unit of KARI for a draft market
assessment, but this unit does not currently have the capacity to undertake market studies. Most of the
KSU seeds have had constant prices since 1999. It is commendable that KARI has considered separating
the public and commercial roles of KSU are still intertwined.

Overall, the ICR rates the performance of the seeds program as satisfactory, having substantially met its
objective of piloting a sustainable national seed system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Despite acknowledging the difficulty in calculating an economic rate of return (ERR) for the project due to
the lack of adequate data, an economic analysis was nevertheless carried out at appraisal. The ERR
calculations were made for the food grains research component only (14% of total project costs at
appraisal), and the benefits assessed were attributed to increased production of maize, wheat, sorghum and
millet as a result of adoption of new technologies. The analysis resulted in an ERR of 24 percent. An



                                                      - 13 -

internal World Bank review questioned the assumptions made for adoption rates and yield increases, and
the quality and coherence of the economic rationale underpinning the project/operation was rated
unsatisfactory in the QAG quality at entry assessment.

Data were insufficient to support calculation of an ERR as part of the ICR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial rate of return or other financial indicator was calculated for the project or any of its
components.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

NARP II's impact on improving KARI's ability to make effective use of its financial and human resources
is rated substantial. As discussed under 4.2, the financial management system has been improved
significantly and therefore allows better budgeting and monitoring of resources, as well as decentralized
control of resources. The training achievements of NARP II allow KARI to build on a stronger research
team. Outstanding matters include the finalization of the HR strategy, which should define the path to a
more appropriate staff mix at KARI overall, define the mandates of specific centers, and provide more
substantial rationalization of the center network to reduce operating and maintenance costs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The collapse and high volatility in the price of cotton and pyrethrum hindered efforts to privatize research
in line with the SAR goals. The worsening input/output price ratios for several commodities, especially
staple crops, have reduced incentives for the adoption of improved technologies requiring even small
amounts of up-front investment, and therefore made the task of identifying appropriate technologies for
poor farmers an even greater challenge. Two severe droughts and the El Nino flooding also took place
during the project period. Most importantly, the reduction in external funding support for the extension
services has further weakened the chain of support to small farmers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

GOK appointed and retained strong leadership at KARI, especially in the later years of project
implementation. This has raised KARI's profile and initiated innovative approaches, including ATIRI. The
transfer of KARI from the Ministry of Science and Technology to the Ministry of Agriculture was designed
to strengthen collaboration between research and extension. However, given the poor performance and
collapse in funding of extension services, and the difficulties KARI has had working with the reduced
extension service, this potential was not exploited. The slow administrative procedures in place to obtain
land titles continue to delay KARI's asset consolidation. Delays in budgetary support and audit reports for
KARI, as well as in streamlining the flow of funds by allowing KARI to access the Special Account
directly, hindered the successful implementation of NARP II in the early years. However, the increase in
overall government budget support compared to the anticipated SAR and changes in special account
management during the second half of the project given KARI a much more robust financial standing,
which bodes well for sustainability. Through the Economic Recovery Strategy (ERS) and the Strategy for
Revitalizing Agriculture (SRA), GOK created a favorable policy environment for poverty focused research,
although these policy improvements came at the very end of the project. The liberalization of seed market
was an important prerequisite for the Seeds Program. While entry into the seed market has been liberalized,



                                                     - 14 -

the dominant position of KSC persists to some degree and the variety release procedures and National
Performance Trials (NPT) process are still obstacles to smooth market operations. There is currently no
framework for private companies to supply seed certification services, but training and accreditation of
private certifiers is under consideration. While informal farmer-to-farmer seed trade can continue without
certification, any commercial operation must be limited to certified seed. The existing regulatory
framework is under revision and there has been extensive stakeholder involvement (though not by farmers
and breeders). The draft regulations have yet to be submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture and for
eventual processing by the Parliament.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Dynamic leadership has facilitated quick implementation of some priority activities, notably ATIRI. The
redefinition of the two Deputy Director positions to Research and Technology and Administration and
Finance respectively was a well designed change to facilitate greater integration of all research activities.
However, the SAR objective to streamline research activities into priority programs was not fully achieved
during NARP II. KARI successfully transferred some specialized research activities and facilities, but
stopped short of scrutinizing the possibilities to streamline its core research centers and close marginal
facilities as had been agreed during the MTR. The establishment of a solid financial management system
has allowed better monitoring of resource flows, and is an important stepping stone in moving towards a
fully integrated MIS. Despite several consultancies and working groups on this issue, an effective M&E
system had not yet been achieved. The draft Beneficiary Assessment which was to be a substantial input to
the ICR, was not finalized.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Annex 2 provides detailed tables on the project cost, procurement and financing. Donor contributions to
NARP II were lower than expected due to lack of synchronization of donor support. Funds from DFID and
the Netherlands were spent on NARP II before the IDA financing started in 1997. The SAR envisaged that
at the end of NARP II, the Government's share of project finance would increase from 39 percent to 42
percent. The current estimates indicate that the share is in fact 56%, partly explained by the reduction in
the total NARP II budget, but also reflecting an increase in the total nominal amount of government
contribution, from 70.4 to 77.3 million USD. The disbursement of IDA funds was initially slow, but
increased in the following financial years. The IDA credit was fully disbursed by March 15, 2004 with full
recovery of the special account. Due to currency fluctuations, the total amount of IDA credit disbursed
totalled US$ 36,587,584. Four reallocations of the IDA credit were agreed during project implementation.
The IDA financing share of vehicle maintenance, building maintenance, and other operating costs was
increased from 75% to 90% in 2000. The same year, ATIRI was added as a component with 100% IDA
funding. When comparing the allocations by expenditure category, the major changes during the project
have been lower expenditures on civil works, training, and vehicle maintenance, while there have been
higher expenditures on vehicles and equipment, and other operating costs. Regarding the allocation of funds
by component, more IDA funds were used on the institution building component than originally envisaged
(130%), with less spent on the research (72%) and seeds programs (60%). Within the research programs,
only 29% of the IDA resources allocated for regional/adaptive research were spent (see discussion of
adaptive research in section 4.3; this figure may be misleading because of definition problems). For the
commodity and factor research programs the disbursement rates compared to expected stand at crops:
96%; livestock and animal health: 93%; natural resource management: 63%; socioeconomics: 80%;
ARF: 91%; and finally ATIRI: 15%.




                                                      - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The overall project sustainability is rated as likely. Throughout NARP II, KARI has maintained its
strong reputation in the region. Although much remains to be done, NARP II has further strengthened
KARI as an institution, especially in terms of technical expertise and financial management. KARI's
research activities remain dependent upon continued donor support, but this was recognized at the outset in
the SAR, which pointed to IDA's long-term commitment to support research in Kenya. A particular
concern is the dependence of some research programs on one or two donors, which endangers their
continuity. Following initial shortfalls and delays in GOK funding support to NARP II, the total GOK
contribution has actually exceeded the SAR target, which demonstrates growing government commitment.
The reduction in staff reduces the financing requirements for KARI, but only little progress was made to
rationalize the centers and close marginal stations. During NARP II, the ARF was supposed to review its
scope and incentive structure to attract multi-donor and private sector finance. At the end of NARP II,
ARF is dependent solely upon IDA funding. The slow progress in starting the process of putting in place
an endowment fund further leaves the ARF vulnerable. In order to capitalize on KARI's assets and
capacities KARI established the Agricultural Research and Investment Services (ARIS) unit, which aims to
generate revenue from commercially viable activities. The set-up has been slow, partly due to requirements
to establish ARIS under the Company Act. A concern for the future is the potential diversion of KARI's
energies to non-core activities, which may reduce the quality and efficiency of its other operations. Overall,
the sustainability of NARP II operations is dependent upon continued outside funding. Key donors have
expressed their intention to support KARI in the future.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

In the MTP, KARI has set out a road map for future operations. To implement the MTP, or a revised
version of such an operational framework to implement KARI's strategic plan, continued funding from
outside sources will be required. IDA and other international funding agencies, including the EU, are
committed to long term external support to agricultural research in Africa.

As a sign of this commitment, IDA is financing through a grant and a credit a twelve year Adaptable
Programme Loan (APL) for support to Agricultural Productivity in Kenya (Report No. 28261-KE). The
first phase, approved by the IDA Board on June 17, 2004, provides support to KARI as well as to a larger
National Agricultural Research System. The objective under KAPP's research component will be to
reform the agricultural research sector so that it encompasses a plurality of actors and becomes more
efficient and accountable. Reforms would: (i) increase the role of end-users in planning of activities,
resource allocation, and monitoring of implementation; (ii) promote performance/result based resource
allocation; (iii) induce greater collaboration and synergy between and among public and private research
institutions; (iv) ensure effective integration of research, education and extension services at local levels;
and (v) increase the volume of appropriate technologies and knowledge generated and applied. This would
be achieved through establishment of a National Agricultural Research System (NARS), pilot collaborative
research activities, and further support to KARI.. These activities are targeted at: (i) enhancing KARI's
ability to demonstrate sizable field impact by addressing shortcomings in its capacity and approaches to
extend and up-scale successful technologies (including grants to farmers through the ATIRI program); (ii)
improving its research planning, review and approval processes to reflect changes prompted by feedbacks
from end-users and or emerging challenges and to improve accountability; (iii) revising the quality review
and assurance process; (iv) paying greater attention to socioeconomic aspects within a



                                                       - 16 -

biologically-dominated research system; (vi) building an adequate ICT infrastructure; and (v) improving
KARI's working environment and the incentive structure for scientists. The consolidation of KARI will
need to be progressively consistent with the envisaged integrated rationalization plan of the NARS and with
the new extension policy framework, also being supported under KAPP. To sum up, the KAPP APL will
provide an instrument of long term, integrated support to Kenya's research and extension system under one
umbrella operation, supporting KARI as part of the Government's new SRA.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project was in line with the CAS as well as the sector and poverty assistance strategies in place at the
time of appraisal. The project development objective was phrased in very ambitious terms and the
performance indicators included in the SAR were not well designed to measure the achievement of the
objective. Nonetheless, the design of the project and its components reflected the thinking towards lending
for agricultural research at the time. The project was prepared over a three year period (1994 - 1996), a
period where thinking was focused on the building of strong capable institutions (with a design very similar
to projects in Tanzania, Uganda and Ethiopia), and less focused on results and impact on the ground.
Given this context, the identification and preparation work was appropriate and comprehensive, and lending
performance is therefore rated satisfactory. A number of qualifications to this satisfactory rating should,
however, be highlighted. KARI's direct access to the Special Account should have been made a condition
for project effectiveness, as the danger of delays in the flow of funds were well recognized prior to
negotiations. The change and impact of two major factors was underestimated prior to effectiveness: the
unfavorable increase in input to output price ratios for most Kenyan farmers and the poor performance and
funding of extension services. While the former might have been difficult to predict, the latter should have
been analyzed at the time of effectiveness. The performance of the IDA funded extension project was
already problematic at the time of NARP II negotiations and the possibility of a funding and activity gap
should have been foreseen. The economic analysis carried out for the SAR was poor and the assumptions
not clearly spelt out. A financial analysis of some NARP II operations, such as farm budgets with
improved varieties and the KSU operations may have been more useful. Lessons from the NARP I ICR,
such as flow of funds issues, were not followed up with sufficiently detailed agreements during NARP II
preparation.

7.2 Supervision:

Overall, project supervision performance is rated unsatisfactory. Supervision was carried out
regularly on a twice yearly basis, with team leaders providing basic guidance on the substantive agenda of
the project, which facilitated consistently good performance on the part of the implementing agency, KARI.
The reorientation of the project at the mid-term review represented a departure on many levels from the
messages which bank supervision was giving before this date, and introduced an adaptive change strategy
to address the external weaknesses of extension and the general external environment. However, follow-up
from the Bank side was weak, which resulted in a lack of focus and direction to get the changes needed.

More fundamentally, however, the task team did not provide adequate strategic guidance to force consistent
attention to project objectives and empirical measures of the extent to which they were being met. In a few
instances, supervision missions gave conflicting messages, for example, regarding seed liberalization,
where statements to the point that the industry is fully liberalized (1997) were followed by serious
qualifications of this statement (1998 and 1999), after which the issue is no longer discussed at all. Some
of the types of expertise foreseen in the SAR supervision plan, which would have been highly appropriate


                                                      - 17 -

(including research M&E, MIS and information technology) were not brought on board to the extent
required. The SAR key performance indicators (KPI) were not monitored during implementation. Bank
supervision of environmental safeguards was lacking. Supervision concentrated on the institutional
management aspects, in particular financial management (and later ATIRI). Relatively little attention was
paid to research management (including priority setting and farming systems) and research programs
(quality and fit), which are the core KARI activities. The establishment of an effective M&E system also
received insufficient specific follow-up to encourage KARI to move from discussion to action. During the
MTR it was agreed that there was a need to formally revisit the development objective and to define
monitorable indicators and goals to be achieved by the end of the project. This agreement of the MTR was
not implemented, and the "institutional development objective" referred to in the MTR was never defined in
an operational way that could be monitored.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory, based on the marginally satisfactory preparation and
unsatisfactory supervision. While the project was successful in meeting its objectives, mostly through good
management at KARI, the contribution of the Bank in the effort was not sufficient to meet high standards
for satisfactory performance. The Bank team was not encouraged to remain current with improved
thinking on the design and implementation of agricultural research systems, and to make sure the design of
this operation project was current.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower preparation performance is rated satisfactory. KARI played a very active role in the
development of the NARP II concept, summarized in the detailed 1995 project preparation report. KARI's
preparation report was the basis for the approved NARP II project design, which the ICR considers
appropriate at the time of appraisal, subject to the qualifications raised in 7.1 (bank lending). The
dedication and performance of KARI during preparation was commendable.             However, the issues of
meeting effectiveness condition of an acceptable Project Implementation Plan (PIP) following the outline
agreed in the SAR seems not to have been met. The only PIP available in KARI predates the SAR by
nearly two years.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

GOK funding support to the project was unsatisfactory over the first few years, but improved following the
MTR and eventually exceeded the SAR's expectations. The flow of funds through the Treasury and MOA
was initially cumbersome and slow. WB requests to allow KARI to access the Special Account directly
were only granted following the MTR, and only through a personal agreement with the Permanent
Secretary. The first phase of staff retrenchment was authorized as planned, and after initial concerns that
the resulting cost savings were not re-attributed to KARI, the increase in budgetary allocation over the
latter years may count as some compensation. The second phase of retrenchment targeted at improving the
staff mix, however, has been held up, and is now awaiting the finalization of the HR strategy.

The policy environment created by the government was weak. The collapse of the sector wide approach in
1998 due to lack of political will for institutional and policy change resulted in a sharp drop in donor
support to the sector. The PRSP and the draft Kenya Rural Development Strategy developed in
2000-2001, were conducive to NARP II implementation and its focus on greater participation in adaptive
research and through ATIRI, but were not implemented. Only recently does the Government's ERS and



                                                      - 18 -

SRA show much commitment to the changes needed to create an enabling environment for agriculture to
contribute to national growth.

The overall implementation and governance environment created by the government was also very weak
during the project implementation period. KARI was one of the few implementers who managed to
produce successful results, as the cohort of Kenya ICRs from the period shows. A litany of problems,
from flow of funds issues, audit issues and centralized procurement and disbursement contributed to a
weak portfolio throughout the 90's. KARI and a few others, through sheer willpower, managed to succeed
in this environment.

The prospect of NARP II making a significant impact on poverty alleviation through adoption of improved
technologies and management practices was severely compromised following the closure of NEP II, as the
severe cuts in funding to extension essentially grounded the service. KARI has neither the mandate nor the
capacity to take on the challenge of extension, and it cannot fulfill its own mandate in the absence of such
an intermediary service. Further, with respect to the limited extension resources still available (later boosted
by some external funding through the National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Project (NALEP) from
SIDA), GOK did not ensure that synergies and collaboration were exploited to the full. Given the mixed
support of the Government in administration of the project, the poor performance of the extension service,
and the deterioration in agricultural incentives and economic governance during the implementation period,
the performance of the Government with regard to implementation is judged unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Dynamic leadership, especially since the time of the MTR, has opened up KARI to new initiatives and
greater field-based implementation methods emphasized by NARP II. Throughout NARP II, beneficiary
participation was increased significantly through the strong emphasis on on-farm adaptive research, ATIRI
and the institutionalization of CRACs. At the center level, various quality control mechanisms have been
put in place, but, as highlighted by the EPR, these are not yet sufficient to ensure a consistently high quality
of research processes and outputs. Training for scientists and support staff has increased the human
resource capacity in KARI. KARI did not set up an effective monitoring system to collect systematic data
to assess impact, in particular adoption rates, yields under farmer conditions and incremental costs in
applying new technologies, and to guide and monitor the impact of NARP II activities. Despite significant
progress in center based priority setting and approval through CRAC, KARI remains a centralized and
hierarchical organization in which most decisions (especially on funding) are taken at HQ, information is
not systematically passed down the ranks, and where staff in the centers will often not take the initiative to
challenge HQ on information provision or the implementation of agreed activities. The loss of the program
coordinator position has meant that there has been no one person responsible for following up on agreed
actions apart from the KARI Director. KARI's commendable and demonstrated willingness to analyze
areas for improvement, and to open up for outside scrutiny through external consultancies and reviews, is
not matched by a concerted effort of institutional change to address the identified weaknesses, in particular
M&E, rationalization, priority setting and research program consolidation, as well as decentralization of
functions and authority to the centers. KARI's strong collaboration with a diverse range of stakeholders in
the seeds program has had a very positive impact on the performance of the seeds operations. After initial
delays and difficulties, which in late 1998 nearly led to the suspension of disbursements, significant
improvements in the financial management system were carried out and generated an improved platform for
program implementation, which, however, will be in need of further upgrading to feed into an MIS. On
balance, given the number of improvements KARI has made in and the achievement of many of the
program objectives given difficult external and internal circumstances, implementing agency performance is
rated satisfactory



                                                     - 19 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, borrower performance is rated satisfactory, qualified as marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Objectives should be stated clearly and concisely, and limited to what the project can realistically
accomplish. The early guidance to task teams to state grand and long term objectives led to confusion as
to what the project teams were actually trying to accomplish. Poor articulation of objectives contributes to
failures in monitoring and evaluation, since the team can, as appears to have been the case with this project,
have difficulty distinguishing project specific indicators from those relevant to the performance of the
economy more generally.

When circumstances change and necessitate revision of objectives and/or activities, project teams
should state clearly what has happened, even in cases when political sensitivities may be aroused. In
the present case, the deterioration in the incentive environment in agriculture and the poor performance of
the extension system made it unlikely that investments in agricultural research would yield the expected
return in the time frame of the project. Under these circumstances, the project team appropriately reverted
to a maintenance mode for agricultural research, coupled with pilot activities in outreach. The implicit
revised objective was to maintain capacity in the agricultural research system while simultaneously
accomplishing important internal institutional reforms that would position the system to perform well once
the environment improved and the extension system could be reformed. This was an appropriate move on
the part of the project team, and it is fully consistent with the broadly stated objectives of the project. The
fact that it took place should have been explicitly recognized, even if the Government may not have
welcomed the statement.

Monitoring and evaluation of relevant indicators are crucial to ex post evaluation and to project
supervision. A systematic monitoring system based on a logframe or similar framework, which spells out
specific objectives, inputs, outputs, as well as conditions for success, is necessary for progress review and
evaluation. The chosen indicators must be well designed and easily monitorable. Baseline studies and
ex-ante impact assessments, as well as adoption studies, must be carried out systematically. The absence of
a well defined M&E system in NARP II, and the limitations of the Key Performance Indicators in capturing
project outputs and outcomes, not only hinders final evaluation, but during implementation reduced
scrutiny and realignment of activities with project objectives and new developments.

Research should focus on the system of production within which commodities are produced, as well as
characteristics specific to the key commodities. The interdependencies of various farm activities must be
considered in the design of research programs and specific trials, as well as during the diagnostic stage, to
avoid a return to a commodity/factor focus. The systematic consideration of socioeconomic factors in the
design and evaluation of research activities is essential, and biological scientists should be trained to
conduct at least basic impact analysis. The NARP I and II implementation experience demonstrates that in
order to reap the benefits of a production systems approach (such as the farming systems approach) in
research operations, it is not sufficient to apply this framework to the diagnostic stage only.

Institutional changes key to the success of the project but potentially sensitive for political or other
reasons should be agreed prior to project approval. Where significant reductions in the number and size
of research centers is necessary to improve effectiveness and efficiency of research delivery, a specific



                                                       - 20 -

institutional reform plan should be adopted prior to project approval, or included in the project
conditionalities. Delays and resistance to the rationalization of the network of research stations during
NARP I and II show that simply including it among other project activities may not result in decisive
action.

Commercial viability may not be achievable within the constraints of a public or parastatal institution.
Establishing a financially autonomous unit within a government institution is difficult where a strong public
mandate may conflict with commercial objectives. Public and commercial roles and responsibilities must be
clearly separated and financial autonomy must be granted to commercial managers. The Kenya Seed Unit
was successful in increasing the availability of seed, and in establishing alternative production and
marketing channels for OPV seeds, but did not succeed in adopting a commercial approach to its operations
because it was hindered by restrictions on its financial autonomy.

Outreach can complement and enrich research, but will not substitute for other mechanisms of
extension or provision of advisory services. A strong research outreach program can make a vital
contribution to dissemination, feedback of on-farm results and observations into the research agenda and
the creation of partnerships between researchers, extension providers and farmers. Effective large scale
dissemination of technologies, however, is best undertaken by entities that do not have as their primary
mandate research. The success of ATIRI in its short period of operation points to the value of embracing
innovative outreach programs, but ATIRI's limited reach also illustrates the importance of concurrently
continuing with or initiating other dissemination activities through intermediaries. The new KAPP
operation integrates support to research and extension, incorporating this lesson.

Agricultural research without complementary and effective mechanisms for dissemination and
adoption of technology will have low returns. Research activities must be complemented by
extension/dissemination, as well as approaches to address other constraints such as access to finance and
markets. KAPP has chosen to address these different factors in an integrated "agricultural services"
project. Where separate operations are preferred, these must be flexible, and their design as well as
implementation performance must be reviewed in tandem. Where one project fails or loses funding support,
the development objective and rationale for the other may have to be revisited. The difficulties encountered
by NARP II following the closure of NEP II illustrate the interdependence of research and extension, and
the impacts of closure of one project on the performance of the other.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                                        KARI Comments on ICR

                                            General Comments

The ICR has captured the gist of what the project did. However there are some ambiguity and
factual errors as indicated below:

Detailed comments

         Page 4, para 3.          The project was not designed to monitor agricultural productivity,
                                  food security and environmental stewardship. This is the



                                                     - 21 -

                  responsibility of other organizations in the country, the project can
                  use this information but it can not monitor these parameters.

Page 5 para 2.    KSU was not expected to have financial autonomy but to operate
                  on a cost recovery basis. Financial evaluation indicated that the
                  units at Katumani and Thika broke even in 2003 but the one at
                  Tigoni did not.

Page 5 para 3.    KARI follows Farming Systems Approach to Research and
                  Training (FSA-RET) especially for its adaptive research. We are
                  not aware of a well documented agro-ecological and
                  socio-economic approach to research. May be this is in some
                  peoples mind rather than on the ground.

Page 6 para 3.    It is difficult to understanding the meaning and the message of a
                  sentence like "The eco-regional study has undertaken in 2001
                  uses key enterprise systems (KES) and profiles and identifies
                  three priorities per district. This has been used to allocate
                  priority KES for each adaptive research but have not been fed
                  into commodity and factor programs". How can we feed the
                  KES into the commodity and factor programs. We would like to
                  do it if we have suggestions how to do it.

                  The statement that "the strategic plan objectives do not have an
                  explicit poverty focus" is also not in place because that was not
                  the intention.

Page 6 para 4.    The project approval process has not been well presented in this
                  paragraph. Firstly, although the financial resources are disbursed
                  from the Headquarters, it is not headquarters that allocates
                  resources. This is the way it went for this project.
               1. After the approval of the project in 1996, all programme
               coordinators were called at the HQ with their proposals that had been
               approved the CRAC
               2. The projects were used to prepare the PIP.
               3. These PIP were further detailed into annual workplan and budget
               4. The annual workplan and budget are the basis of disbursement of
               funds
               5. Each year the workplan and budget is revised. In this revision, new
               research projects at centres may be added on annual basis.

                  This is done by programme coordinators, centres directors,
                  assistant directors and the finance people. The allocation of fund by
                  HQ therefore does not arise.




                                     - 22 -

Page 7 para 1.           The statement that `currently no transparent process exists that allocates
                         fund between and within program in line with national and regional
                         priorities including re-alignments between funding for strategic and
                         adaptive research" is a fully loaded statement and not helpful. It would
                         have been useful to evaluate how can does it and indicate the pros and
                         cons.

Page 10 para 1.          We do not know of a well documented integrated-agro-ecological
                         approach to research. We would benefit from information/document on
                         this approach. We use the FSA-RET.


(b) Cofinanciers:

None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

None received

10. Additional Information


none




                                                   - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
TRANSFORMATION OF KARI INTO A                Not projected in PSRs.
LEANER AND MORE EFFICIENT
ORGANIZATION

Financial and accounting system                                                  Done, but continuous upgrading will be
decentralized and operation in all research                                      required.
centers.
Reduction in number of research centers.                                         The number of research centers reduced
                                                                                 from 24 to 21 due to transfer of certification,
                                                                                 veterinary labs and sugar research. All other
                                                                                 centers still operational and included in the
                                                                                 MTP for the coming 5 year work plan (with
                                                                                 revised mandates, and some with changed
                                                                                 status).
1,400 staff retrenched.                                                          Only around 630 staff have been retrenched,
                                                                                 but staff numbers have gone down from
                                                                                 5,307 ion 1997 to 3,321 by July 2003, due to
                                                                                 natural attrition and non replacement.
                                                                                 Scientist to support staff ratio went down
                                                                                 from 1:10 to 1:8.
Two pilot soil laboratories for improved                                         Soil analytical services provided in
fertilizer recommendations established.                                          Kakamega, not in Mtwapa. Cost recovery
                                                                                 strategy was not fully implemented.
More effective research planning and                                             Prioritization carried out a national level (see
management system.                                                               below). Establishment of CRAC in all
                                                                                 research stations improves planning and
                                                                                 approval process. However, funding
                                                                                 allocation and monitoring responsibilities are
                                                                                 centralized and less transparent to
                                                                                 stakeholders on the ground. Monitoring and
                                                                                 evaluation remains weak.
10% increase in number of scientists with                                        According to the MTP, in 1996 KARI
postgraduate degrees.                                                            employed 92 PhD and 287 MSc holders. (In
                                                                                 2002 there were 141 PhDs and 244 who held
                                                                                 an MSc. In total this represents an increase
                                                                                 of less than 2%. However, the ratio of PhD
                                                                                 to MSc holders increased from 1:3 to 1:1.7
                                                                                 simultaneously.
Greater participation of farmers in planning                                     Achieved in the adaptive research program to
and implementation of relevant research.                                         varying degrees -- very effective in Western
                                                                                 Kenya, but less so in other centers.
                                                                                 Stimulated in particular by the use of PLAR,
                                                                                 FFS and ATIRI approaches. Greater
                                                                                 participation in planning also fostered through
                                                                                 the CRAC.
Continuity of research programs is assured.                                      KARI's development budget is financed
                                                                                 predominantly by a small group of donors,
                                                                                 which makes the programs vulnerable.
                                                                                 Endowment and private sector funding has
                                                                                 not yet been secured. Centers have been
                                                                                 successful to very different extent in
                                                                                 broadening their funding base.

IMPLEMENTATION OF PRIORITY
RESEARCH PROGRAMS AND
EFFECTIVE DISSEMINATION OF
IMPROVED TECHNOLOGIES.

Research focussed on priority areas.                                             Prioritization exercises carried out at Institute
                                                                                 level (1991, 1996 -- economic surplus
                                                                                 approach -- and to some degree through
                                                                                 eco-regional study in 2001), but a continuous



                                                               - 24 -

                                                               process not yet in place, and analysis still
                                                               biased towards commodities/factors rather
                                                               than production systems. A proliferation of
                                                               small projects unlikely to generate significant
                                                               impact still persists rather than a
                                                               concentration on identified priorities in key
                                                               production systems.
25% increase in improved technologies for                      Difficult to assess in the absence of a well
dissemination.                                                 defined indicator for "improved
                                                               technologies"and weights given to different
                                                               types of technologies. "KARI at a Glance
                                                               2003" shows that over the period 1996-2002,
                                                               130 varieties, vaccines and diagnostic kits
                                                               were released by KARI, compared to 41 over
                                                               the period 1991-1995. This represents an
                                                               increase of more than 200%.
Specialized research laboratories are in                       Analytical laboratories (feed/fodder, food
operational.                                                   technology, biotechnology, entomology)
                                                               functioning but underutilized and costs not
                                                               systematically recovered.
Increase technology transfer support at 10                     RELOs appointed in all RRCs, but level of
RRCs.                                                          activity of RELOs varies between centers.
                                                               RREACs created in most RRCs, but now
                                                               dormant or merged into CRACs in most. 42
                                                               extension leaflets produced. ATIRI piloted in
                                                               9 and later extended to 16 research centers,
                                                               reaching around 15,000 farmers directly.
                                                               Also support to FFS, field and center days.
Increase collaboration with extension.                         Collaboration stronger in early project years
                                                               when NEP II still operational and when
                                                               earmarked funding was set aside under the
                                                               MoU between MoA and the Ministry of
                                                               Science and Technology where KARI was
                                                               then located.
Increase in productivity of major                              The 2000 impact assessment found
crop/livestock/agro- forestry production                       increased productivity of hybrid maize and
systems.                                                       other improved crop varieties, including
                                                               sorghum, Irish Potato and wheat, but the
                                                               analysis suffered from methodological
                                                               problems and lack of field data. The draft
                                                               Beneficiary Assessment highlighted partial
                                                               and adoption observed by farmers
                                                               constrained by low capacity for up-front
                                                               investment and inter-cropping patterns as well
                                                               as crop-livestock-tree interactions, which
                                                               significantly diminishes the potential benefits
                                                               in practice. Greater effective productivity
                                                               growth could be achieved if the research took
                                                               into account the full production system.

PROVIDE GOOD QUALITY SEEDS OR
PLANTING MATERIALS OF
RECOMMENDED VARIETIES.

Availability of high quality seeds and planting                KARI maintaining 157 varieties, inbred lines
materials of recommended varieties.                            and populations. KARI signed license
                                                               agreements with six seed companies which
                                                               produce and market KARI varieties.
                                                               Production and distribution of OPV seeds
                                                               improved through consortium of NGOs,
                                                               CBOs and local stockists. Seeds have been
                                                               available to an estimated 360,000 farmers.
Import and export of seeds is facilitated.                     Legal restrictions to improve and export were
                                                               abolished.
Production of seeds by the informal seed                       Over 40 NGOs assist farmer groups to grow,
sector, e.g., individual farmers, is facilitated.              process and distribute seed of open
                                                               pollinated varieties suitable for semi-arid low
                                                               lands. NGOs now source and buy good



                                                     - 25 -

                                                                                quality breeder seed from KSU.




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
TRANSFORMATION OF KARI INTO                 Not projected in PSR.
LEANER AND MORE EFFICIENT
ORGANIZATION.


 Improved financial and accounting system                                       Done, but continuous upgrading will be
which is decentralized to research centers.                                     required.
Rationalized network of research centers.                                       Centers were reduced from 24 to 21 by
                                                                                transferring specialized activities. Mandates
                                                                                of centers redefined in MTP and some
                                                                                downgraded to sub-centres. Most research
                                                                                centers are concentrated in high rainfall
                                                                                areas.
Streamlined the organization and                                                2 Deputy Directors appointed at KARI's HQ
management of KARI"s headquarters.                                              in 2000/1; Program Coordinators only
                                                                                appointed recently; separated PM&E unit not
                                                                                set up; RCC not created. Management has
                                                                                been improved through better financial
                                                                                information generated by FINPRO.
                                                                                Workload on ADs exceeds capacity to
                                                                                deliver.
Library upgraded at KARI HQ and research                                        TEEAL, Corp Compendium and KARI
centers.                                                                        database indexes installed in centers and full
                                                                                program available at HQ. Access to journals
                                                                                (hard copies) deteriorated after bilateral donor
                                                                                support ended. Replaced in some centers by
                                                                                internet subscriptions and CD roms. Timely
                                                                                access of center staff to searches and
                                                                                up-to-date publications remains problematic.
                                                                                Internet and e-mail access remains
                                                                                inadequate.
Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) in place.                                      ARF is in place, but entirely dependent upon
                                                                                IDA funds. No new proposals have therefore
                                                                                been solicited since 2000.
Scientists trained in advance research                                          Overall training during NARP II: 35 PhD, 73
techniques.                                                                     MSc/MA, 15 BSc/BA, 2 HRD, 54 certificates,
                                                                                2487 attended short courses. With IDA
                                                                                support: 4 PhDs, 41 Masters, 60 support
                                                                                staff, 45 senior managers for management
                                                                                courses, 70 managers and scientists went
                                                                                for study tours and conferences, 200
                                                                                managers and scientists support to attended
                                                                                the biennial conferences.
Farming Systems Approach (FSA)                                                  Most FSA training done under NARP I.
introduced.                                                                     Under NARP II, the FSA Manual was
                                                                                completed. FSA is applied widely at
                                                                                diagnostic stage, but much less so in
                                                                                planning of research, design of projects,
                                                                                implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
Establish sustainable source of research                                        KARI is very dependent upon a few donors,
funding.                                                                        including IDA. Progress towards
                                                                                establishing an endowment fund for the
                                                                                Agricultural Research Trust Fund has been
                                                                                slow and is still at the exploratory stage.


IMPLEMENTATION OF PRIORITY
RESEARCH PROGRAMS AND




                                                              - 26 -

EFFECTIVE DISSEMINATION OF
IMPROVED TECHNOLOGIES.


25% increase in research outputs on crops,              Difficult to assess in absence of clear
livestock, biotechnology, natural resource              definition of research outputs (and weights to
management and Socioeconomics.                          different types of outputs). More than 200%
                                                        increase in released technologies (see
                                                        Outcome table). Produced and disseminated
                                                        42 English language extension leaflets
                                                        (mostly funded by non-IDA donors).
Specialized laboratories rehabilitated and              Specialized equipment was purchased for
equipped.                                               laboratories in NARL, Njoro, Kisii, Katumani
                                                        and Kakamega.
Improved quality and implementation of                  Increased number of adaptive research
adaptive research at RRCs.                              projects: 1990 -- 30; 2001 -- 132; 2002 --
                                                        156. RRP Coordinators and RELOs
                                                        appointed. Diagnostic surveys and PRAs
                                                        implemented, on-farm research increased,
                                                        extension materials produced and
                                                        disseminated but feedback mechanisms
                                                        between upstream research not yet well
                                                        developed.
Standard research and development                       FSA is applied widely at the diagnostic stage,
procedures using the FSA introduced.                    but much less so in the formulation of the
                                                        research agenda, project design,
                                                        implementation, monitoring, evaluation and
                                                        dissemination. Gender analysis
                                                        strengthened, economic analysis weak,
                                                        analysis of interaction weak, upscaling
                                                        strategies to be improved. Adherence to FSA
                                                        procedures not required for project approval
                                                        and not systematically incorporated in new
                                                        projects.
Two pilot soil analysis laboratories for                One laboratory established at Kakamega. At
improved fertilizer recommendations                     Mtwapa the soil laboratory is empty (no
established.                                            equipment, no consumables). Sample
                                                        processing capacity at the national level
                                                        underutilized, unclear for regional levels.
                                                        With EU support now increased attention for
                                                        cost recovery, quality control (accreditation),
                                                        deployment of staff and equipment.


PROVIDE GOOD QUALITY SEED OR
PLANTING MATERIALS OF
RECOMMENDED VARIETIES


Liberalized seed industry.                              The seed industry was formally liberalized
                                                        Over 40 seed companies are registered and
                                                        operating in Kenya. The registered seed
                                                        companies are competing with each other
                                                        and this has ensured improvement of seed
                                                        quality and the distribution system. Private
                                                        seed companies releasing and marketing
                                                        their own varieties. However, KSC maintains
                                                        a dominant position in the market. A
                                                        regulatory agent (the Kenya Plant Health
                                                        Inspectorate Service, KEPHIS) that certifies
                                                        seed was formed in 1997. A framework for
                                                        private certification services is not yet in
                                                        place.
Improved seed processing and distribution               KSU has 3 mobile seed cleaners that seed
system.                                                 groups hire to process their seed. Over 40
                                                        NGOs assist farmer groups to grow, process
                                                        and distribute seed of open pollinated




                                              - 27 -

                                                         varieties suitable for semi-arid low lands. Six
                                                         seed companies are licensed to produce and
                                                         market KARI bred varieties. NGOs now
                                                         source and buy good quality breeder seed
                                                         from KSU.
Seeds of recommended varieties available to              KARI maintaining 157 varieties, inbred lines
farmers.                                                 and populations. KARI signed license
                                                         agreements with six seed companies which
                                                         produce and market KARI varieties.
                                                         Production and distribution of OPV seeds
                                                         improved through a consortium of NGOs,
                                                         CBOs and local stockists. Seeds have been
                                                         made available to an estimated 360,000
                                                         farmers.

1End of project




                                               - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. Institutional building                                   84.20           99.50              118
Research Programs                                           87.90           33.80               38
Seed Multiplication                                          7.80             5.30              68

Total Baseline Cost                                        179.90          138.60
                          Total Project Costs              179.90          138.60
                    Total Financing Required               179.90          138.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            4.00            5.60         0.60          3.70         13.90
                                   (3.00)          (4.20)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (7.20)
2. Goods                            6.60            0.60         1.40          9.40         18.00
                                   (5.70)          (0.50)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (6.70)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         2.30          16.80        19.10
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (2.30)          (0.00)       (2.30)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00         6.00          14.50        20.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.00)          (0.00)       (6.00)
5. Agric. Research Fund             0.00            0.00         3.50          0.20         3.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.50)          (0.00)       (3.50)
6. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00        14.00          90.70       104.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (14.00)         (0.00)      (14.00)
   Total                           10.60            6.20        27.80         135.30       179.90
                                   (8.70)          (4.70)      (26.30)         (0.00)      (39.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           4.80         0.00           0.00        4.80
                                   (0.00)         (4.80)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (4.80)
2. Goods                            5.40           0.90         1.00           2.40        9.70
                                   (5.40)         (0.90)       (1.00)         (0.00)       (7.30)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         2.60           2.70        5.30
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (2.60)         (0.00)       (2.60)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00         3.40           1.30        4.70
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.40)         (0.00)       (3.40)
5. Agric. Research Fund



                                                - 29 -

                                           0.00               0.00              3.50             0.00              3.50
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (3.50)
   6. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00             15.30             95.30            110.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.00)            (0.00)           (15.00)
       Total                               5.40               5.70             25.80            101.70            138.60
                                          (5.40)             (5.70)           (25.50)            (0.00)           (36.60)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Institution Building       14.90        64.70         4.60       19.40         73.60      6.50       130.2    113.8    141.3
B. Research Programs          20.60         5.00        62.30       14.80         2.50      16.60       71.8      50.0     26.6
C. Seed Multiplication         4.20         0.70         7.80        2.50         1.20       1.60       59.5     171.4     20.5




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Data were insufficient to support calculation of an ERR as part of this ICR.




                                                   - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/12/1994


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/03/1995


 Supervision

              04/18/1997                8    DISBURSEMENT (1); AGRIC.         S               S
                                             POLICY (1); SEEDS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             EXTENSION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT. (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              07/24/1997                4    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST           S               S
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             RES./EXT. LINKAGE (1);
                                             AGRIC. ECONOMIST (1)
              02/26/1998                7    AGRICULTURIST (1);               S               S
                                             PRINCIPAL AGRICULTURIS
                                             (1); SR. EXTENSION
                                             SPECIALI (2); SR. FIN. MGT.
                                             SPECIALI (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT SPECIALIS
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              07/24/1998                7    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);           S               S
                                             PRIN. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             SR. FIN. MGT. SPECIALI (1);
                                             EXTENSION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             SPECIALIS (1)
              04/16/1999                5    AGRICULTURIST (2);               U               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGT. (2)
              04/16/1999                3    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1); SR.       S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SR. FIN. MGT. SPECIALI (1)
              06/16/2001                9    AGRICULTURIST (1);               S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGR. (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL



                                              - 32 -

                                            MANAGEMENT (2);
                                            DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                            (1); CONSULTANT/FAO (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               09/15/2003             3     Ag. Economist (1),                S    S
                                            Financial Mgmt Specialist
                                            (1), Research Agronomist
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             100                           383
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    82                          257
  Supervision                            197                           797
  ICR                                       4                           75
  Total                                  383                          1509




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Working Papers: Seeds, Research Management and Programs



KEN NARP II ICR Draft FAO CP WP1 Research.docKEN NARP II ICR Draft FAO CP WP2 Seeds.doc



Executive Summary of Draft Beneficiary Agreement




                                                - 36 -

- 37 -

