Page  1
                                                       CONFORMED COPY
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 2935 KE
                       Development Credit Agreement
           (National Agricultural Research Project--Phase II)
                                 between
                            REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 25, 1997
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2935 KE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Association has received a letter of subsectoral policy
dated February 20, 1996 from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve its agricultural
research (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program;
     (C)  the Project will be carried out by the Kenya Agricultural
Research Institute (KARI) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to KARI
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and KARI;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions),
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is
          not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
          services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
          purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
          import of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
          ledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
          the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
          VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "ARF" means the Agricultural Research Fund established by
KARI (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Board Resolution Number
MIN/BM/10/95 of May 18, 1995 and managed by KARI for the purpose of
providing research grants to scientists;
     (b)  "ARF Manual" means the operational manual adopted by KARI
establishing rules and procedures and eligibility criteria for
awarding research grants under Part B.6 of the Project;
     (c)  "Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KARI pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes any schedules thereto;
     (d)  "KARI" means Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, a body
corporate established pursuant to Section 12 of the Science and
Technology Act, Chapter 250 of the laws of the Borrower, as amended;
     (e)  "MALDM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock Development and Marketing;
     (f)  "NRCs" means any of the Borrower's National Research Centers
owned and operated by KARI;
     (g)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and KARI, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Project Implementation Manual" means the manual, referred
to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, describing the procedures,
performance indicators and other arrangements for the purpose of
implementing the Project;
     (i)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated November 7, 1994 and February 23, 1995
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (j)  "Research Grant" means a research grant under Part B.6 of
the Project;
     (k)  "Research Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
Page  3
into between KARI and a research grant recipient for the purpose of
carrying out a research activity under Part B.6 of the Project;
     (l)  "Research Grant Recipient" means the recipient of a Research
Grant;
     (m)  "RRCs" means any of the Regional Research Centers owned and
operated by KARI;
     (n)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (o)  "Shilling" means the currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
27,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so
agree, amounts to be paid) by KARI on account of withdrawals made by
a Research Grant Recipient under a Research Grant to meet the reason-
able cost of goods required for the agricultural research activities
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is
requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
Page  4
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing June
15, 2007 and ending December 15, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on December 15, 2016 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Associa-
tion on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause KARI to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of KARI
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KARI to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit avail-
able to KARI as a grant under an agreement (the Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and KARI, under terms and con-
Page  5
ditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Grant
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and, except as the Associaition shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Grant
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07
and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by KARI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall implement appropriate measures
to ensure the high quality of imported and exported seeds. To that
end, the Borrower shall, not later than 27 months after the Effective
Date, submit to Parliament draft legislation for the establishment of
a Kenya Plant Health Inspection Service (KEPHIS) which shall be
responsible for quality control, including management of the plant
quarantine services to facilitate the export and import of seeds.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out jointly with the Association and KARI, not earlier
than 21 months and not later than 27 months after the Effective Date,
a midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project and
the Program (referred to in this Section as the Midterm Review).  The
Midterm Review shall cover, among other things: (i) the effectiveness
of the institutional arrangements; (ii) the effectiveness of the
implementation arrangements; (iii) KARI's performance, functioning and
management; (iv) the implementation of Project activities, particularly
the decentralization of research activities; (v) the performance of
ARF; and (vi) progress in involving the private sector in research
activities.
     (b)  At least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to
the Association a report describing the status of the items listed in
paragraph (a) above and of Project implementation generally.
     (c)  Not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare
an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further
implementation of the Project and, thereafter, implement such action
program.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               sound accounting practices, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures are retained until at least one year
               after the Association has received the audit report
               for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
               the Credit Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) (i) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested, includ-
               ing a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
               the statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records and accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, shall be carried out.
     (b)  KARI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that KARI will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Science and Technology Act, Chapter 250 of the laws of
the Borrower, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
KARI to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of KARI or the ARF or for the suspension of their operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
Page  7
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Grant Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and KARI;
     (b)  KARI has adopted a Project Implementation Manual satis-
factory to the Association;
     (c)  KARI has submitted to the Association a plan, satisfactory
to the Association, for implementing the pilot seeds program referred
to in Part C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
     (d)  KARI has established arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for its organizational structure, including the
appointment of the Manager of the Seeds Coordination Unit, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
     (e)  KARI has adopted the ARF Manual.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association: (a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by KARI and is legally binding upon KARI in accordance
with its terms; and (b) that the Grant Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and KARI and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and KARI in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                  Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi, Kenya
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINANCE                  22921
               Nairobi                  MINFIN-KE
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  8
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF KENYA
               By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                              Credit                 % of
                            Allocated            Expenditures
                          (Expressed in              to be
     Category            SDR Equivalent)           Financed
(1)  Civil Works            4,900,000            90%
(2)  Vehicles, plants       4,675,000            100% of foreign
     and equipment                               expenditures and
     (other than                                 90% of local
     Part B.6 of                                 expenditures
     the Project)
(3)  Consultants'           1,500,000            100%
     services
(4)  Training               4,125,000            100%
(5)  Research               2,400,000            100% of amounts
     Grants under                                disbursed by
     Part B.6 of                                 KARI
     the Project
(6)  Operating
     Costs:
     (a)  Vehicles          1,600,000            75%
Page  9
     (b)  Buildings           150,000            75%
     (c)  Other             5,800,000            75%
(7)  Refunding of             500,000            Amounts due
     Project                                     pursuant to
     Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement
(8)  Unallocated            1,750,000
                           __________
          TOTAL            27,400,000
                           ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating
costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of
buildings, vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities,
consumables, short-term research assistance, travel and accommodation;
and
     (d)  Research Grants under Category (5) shall be used to finance
research-related operating costs, as provided in paragraph 10 of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, and (b) payments made for
expenditures under Category 5 unless: (i) KARI has submitted to the
Association a draft Research Grant Agreement satisfactory to the
Association, and (ii) the Research Grant has been made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b)
works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent, (c) services
with consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equiva-
lent, (d) expenditures for individual consultants under contracts not
exceeding $50,000 equivalent, (e) operating costs, (f) local training,
(g) foreign training not to exceed $10,000 equivalent, and (h) con-
tracts under ARF not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) raise agricultural
productivity and incomes on a sustained basis, (b) improve food
security, and (c) promote poverty alleviation and environmental
protection, all through generation and dissemination of new agri-
cultural technologies.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Development
Page  10
1.   Streamlining the organizational structure of KARI through a
rationalization of its network of research centers and of its
staffing system.
2.   Strengthening of KARI's administrative, financial management
and accounting system to ensure efficient and timely allocation and
utilization of resources, through a restructuring of the finance
and accounting functions and decentralization of key financial
responsibilities to NRCs and RRCs.
3.   Improving procedures for technical processes for research
planning and priority setting, design and budgeting, implementation,
dissemination of results and impact assessment, including
decentralization of key functions to NRCs and RRCs.
4.   Improving KARI's capability to retain and motivate its staff
through the introduction of a transparent performance appraisal
system and rewards/incentive framework.
5.   Carrying out of an expanded skills upgrading program for KARI
staff in management, technical and administrative skills.
6.   Improving KARI's library and information system, including the
establishment of a management information system (MIS) for KARI
headquarters and research centers.
7.   Improving KARI's capacity to monitor and evaluate donor support
in agricultural research.
Part B:   Applied Research
1.   Strengthening the capacity of NRCs and RRCs to identify priority
constraints of dominant crop/livestock/agroforestry production systems
and to design adaptive research programs in research stations and
farmers' fields to produce appropriate technologies which are
biologically stable, economically viable and benign to the environment.
2.   Rehabilitation of RRCs located at Embu and Mtwapa.
3.   Carrying out of nationally coordinated research programs on
strategic, high-priority crops.
4.   Carrying out of improved research on production and health of
dairy cattle, beef cattle, small ruminants and poultry.
5.   Carrying out, on a pilot basis in two KARI research centers, of
assessments on the viability and effectiveness of utilizing research
centers to provide advice on fertilizer use recommendations through
the correlation of fertilizer response data obtained in fertilizer
trials with soil and plant tissue analyses.
6.   Provision of grants to agricultural research scientists,
research institutions or universities to support and promote high-
priority research activities.
Part C:   Seeds Program
1.   Implementing the program to liberalize the seed industry.
2.   Carrying out of a pilot scheme for the provision of basic seeds
to the private sector, both formal and informal.
3.   Improving KARI's capacity to provide breeder and foundation
seeds to private sector seed companies and farmer seed producers
through the establishment of foundation seed units with seed
processing facilities and field equipment and vehicles at selected
research centers.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
Page  11
                                SCHEDULE 3
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent
to $2,000,000, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account under the eligible Categories
for the Special Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project, shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account, shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments
               in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
               the basis of each such request, the Association
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
               Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
               such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
               as shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
Page  12
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories for the Special Account, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Associa-
tion pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expen-
diture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  13
