Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9821
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PHASE II (LOAN 2174-CO)
AUGUST 19, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of.
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed wFithout World Banl; autborization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit            Colombian Peso /ColS)
Appraisal 1981              US$1 = Col$ 61.0
June 1990                   US$1 = Col$ 497.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olke DotfOvttGerwl
Opwatton lvatkm
August 19, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia Integrated
Rural Development Pro1ect (Loan 2174-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 2174-
CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Depa:tment at this
time.
Attachment
2~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAJA              -  Caja de Cr6dito Agraria, Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
CAVECINALES       -  Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
(National Fund for Rural Roads)
DNP               -  Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Department)
DRI               -  Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integrado del Fondo DRI
(Integrated Rural Development Program, which became DRI
Fund)
EDO               -  Programa de Extensi6n Dirigido a Objetivos
(Extension Program Directed to Objectives)
FEDECAFE          -  Federaci6n Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia
(National Federation of Colombian Coffee Growers)
FERS              -  Fondos Educativos Regionales
(Regional Educatior Funds)
FINANCIACOOP      -  Instituto de Financiamiento y Desarrollo Cooporativo de
Colombia
- (Colombia Institute for Financing and Development of
Cooperatives)
FONDO/MEN         -  Fondo del Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional
(National Fund of the Minsitry of Education)
ICA               -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
ICCE              -  Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares
(Colombian Institute for School Building)
ICEL              -  Instituto Colombiano de Energia El6ctrica
(Colombian Institute for Electrical Power)
INDERENA          -  Instituto de Recursos Naturales Renovables del Medio
Ambiente
(Institute for Renewable Natural Resources and the
Environment)
INS               -  Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
IVA               -  Impuesto al Valor Agregado
(Value Added Tax)
MINISALUD         -  Ministerio de Salud
(Ministry of Public Health)
PAN               -  Plan Nacional de Alimentaci6n y Nutrici6n
(National Food and Nutrition Plan)
PDIC              -  Progran,a do Desarrollo Integral Compesino
(Integrated Rural Development Program for Peasants)
PNR               -  Plan Nacional de Rehabilitaci6n
(National Rehabilitation Plan)
SENA              -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
Table of Contents
Pare No.
Preface  .       ........ sees ...       ...... s .**............. s   ........            i
Evaluation Suimmary  sees  ................. .*00  ................ ........ .0..       ii
Part I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity          .............s..... ..  ...     .......                     1
2.  Project Background  so...... ......               ..........                           1
3.   Project Objectives and  Description ........................                          1
4.   Project Design and  Organization ...........................                          1
5.  Project Implementation  ... s ............ se........ .. *.-                           2
6.   Project Results  ......... ..................................                         4
7.  Sustainability ........    ............ O0 ........8 
8.  Bank and Borrower Performance ........................                                 9
9.  Project Relationships....  ......... ....   .. ... ......... o                        11
10. Consulting Services  ......               ................  oo..........              11
11. Project Documentation and Data ................O.............s.                       11
Part II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...........                         12
Part III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...........................                           20
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans  .oso.......o*.                  ....*....                   20
Table 2 - Project Timetable  **..... *.. *.......                  ............          22
Table 3 - Loan Disbursement  .......                 . . . . .. . . . . .   *......  .....  25
Table 4 - Project Costs  .............*................. *......                         26
Table 5 - Direct Benefits  *.O..* ........ ****.0*t**            *    .............       29
Table 6 - Status of Covenants  ....................... .........                         37
Table 7 - Staff Inputs   .. o ...... o .... .s.       s .............   ....... . ...    39
Map IBRD No. 15802
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheir official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Integrated
Rural Development Project Phase II in Colombia, for which Loan 2174-CO in the
amount of US$53.0 million was approved on June 8, 1982.  The project w-.s a
follow-on to a successful Bank-supported first phase project (Loan 1352-CO)
which closed in 1984. The loan was closed on June 30, 1990. Only
US$40.8 million was disbursed because decentralization reforms that took place
in Colombia in 1990 changed the role of the implementing agency to such a
degree that it was felt better to appraise a new project, rather than try to
modify the project. The loan balance of US$12.2 million was canceled
effective December 31, 1990. A follow-on Bank/IDB-supported Integrated Rural
Development Program (DRI) (Loan 3250-CO) was approved on July 31, 1990 which
incorporates the new role of DRI under the decentralization reforms mentioned
above.
2.          The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Sector Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II)V.
3.          Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in April 1989, and is based on a completion
mission during April-May 1990, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
interviews with relevant project staff, and internal Bank *aemoranda. Sample
impact evaluations werc also done, and provided valuable information on the
project for this PCR, as well as for the design of the recently approved
follow-on loan (para. 6.14).
1/    Part II includes unedited but selected sections of the Borrower's
Btatement. A complete text is available in LAC Files.



l                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~- 'Iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectivee
1.          The primary objectives of the project were tot  (a) improve rural
living conditions through the construction of infrastructure (road., electric
power connections, and piped water supply) and through the increase of primary
health and education services and facilities; and (b) increase food production
of small farmers through increased yields and intensified land use, coupled
with programs of supervised credit, technical assietance, training, and
marketing (para. 3.01).
Implementation Experience
2.          The loan closing date was extended on two occasions totalling
18 months, from December 31, 1988 to June 30, 1990. Fiscal constraints
between 1981 and 1984, and again between 1986 and 1988, delayed project
execution. However, the overall project did succeed in fully meeting many of
its targets and it has contributed to the continued development of rural
Colombia (para. 5.01).
3.          Other problems that contributed to project delays were:
(a) institutional changes which took place after 1981 when the Integrated
Rural Development Program (DRI), was moved from the National Planning
Department (DNP) to the Ministry of Agriculture. This was done because it
became clear that the task of administering projects was too large for a
policy making authority such as the DNP. DRI became a fully autonomous agency
in 1985. However, it did not become fully operational until January 1988, one
year before the original loan closing date. These institutional changes,
while conceptually sound, did result in some transitional problems of
duplication in some administrative activities, coordination difficulties with
the executing agencies, and poor monitoring of project activities;
(b) processing of disbursement requests by Government and subsequent movement
of disbursed funds back through Government to the executing agencies was very
slow due to complicated Government procedures; and (c) DRI's difficulties in
getting the various executing agencies to submit timely audit reports; in 1986
this led to the Bank's non-acceptance of disbursements against Statement of
Zxpenditures (SOEs) for almost a year. In addition, poor progress reporting
(due primarily to the lack of an effective monitoring and evaluation system)



- iv -
and frequent changes of DRI management, hampered smooth implementation
(paras. 5.02, 5.07, 5.08, 5.09, and 6.11).
4.          The final project cost was about US$739.2 million, 80% of
aippraisal estimate (US$173.2 ..Illion). The lower cost is due to the higher
than expected devaluation of the local currency (para. 5.06). Only
US$40.8 million (77%) of the loan was disbursed (para. 5.07).
Results
5.          In spite of the difficulties during implementation, the majority
of the physical targets were met or exceeded and the project continued to
sustain the achievements of the previous (first phase) projectV. The Bank
and Government objective of poverty alleviation was largely achieved through
the project, as evidenced by the improved standard of living of project
beneficiaries (para. 6.14). About 21,000 (105%) beneficiaries of this
project, and about 5,100 (94%) beneficiaries of the first phase project
received production credit (para. 6.02). Technical assistance to farmers was
less successful because the hiring of extension agents was prevented by a
freeze on Govevnmen' hiring during several years in which Colombia faced
severe fiscal constraints (para. 6.03). Nevertheless, training for farmers
exceeded targets, although the technical staff of the executing agencies did
not receive the projected level of training (para. 6.04). By contrast,
targets were exceeded for the construction of farm fish ponds, roads, water
supply systems, health centers, school classrooms, and implementation of the
electrification program (paras. 6.05 - 6.10). Institutionally, DRI has
developed into a very capable agency.
6.         In 1989, in line with the Government's Decentralization Reform, the
project was modified to incorporate a pilot activity involving 38 additional
municipelities. The pilot was done to see how DRI's operations could be
brought in line with the decentralization reforms of the Government, and yet
ensure the sustainability of the rural development effort. Under the pilot
the role of DRI was changed such that instead of contracting public
implementing agercies, DRI cofinanced investments with municipalities. These,
in turn, contracted private and public entities to carry out works. The pilot
did contribute to developing effective mechanisms for cofinancing between DRI
and the municipalities. This in turn has become a key feature of the recently
approved follow-on project, the Rural Development Investment Program (RDIP)
(Loan 3250-CO) (para. 6.12). Subsequently in 1989, the project was modified
to support the further strengthening of DRI in line with the revised moduf
ooerandi, and in preparation for the follow-on phase of the program. This
2/1   The PCR for the first phase project (Loan 1352-CO) concluded that the
primary strategy for improving farmers' income through increasing
yields, reducing idle land, and introducing a managerial approach to
farming and marketing was successful. Implementing agencies which
failed to perform satisfactorily during Phase I were not included in the
second phase of the project. And the issue of slow disbursement
processing in Colombia (about 18 months) for the first phase project has
been reduced to 3-4 months for this project.



- v -
involved a modified institutional structure of DRI at the regional level,
along with additional computers, equipment, and vehicles (para. 6.13).
7.          The economic rate of return (ERR) at project completion is
estimated to be 39% compared with the appraisal estimate of 23%. The economic
analysis was done for the agricultural component only and is based on the
illustrative farm model. used for the financial analysis. The higher ERR at
project completion results from the increased yielde and output prices for the
agricultural products (para. 6.16).
Bustainabilitv
8.          Prospects for sustainability of benefits appear to be good since:
,a) the Government continues to recognize and be committed to supporting DRI's
key role in building self-reliance among poorer rural populationsl (b) the
project has significantly strengthened DRI and, indeed, transformed its
functions and procedures in line with changing circumstances in Colombia,
notably the decentralization reforms; and (c) the DRI program has now been in
operation for some fourteen years and, while it has changed in form
considerably over the years, it has developed a good track record of sustained
support. Thus, it can be expected that project beneficiaries will continue to
receive production support and improved services. Indeed, the follow-on DRI
project places even greater emphasis on local participation in both the
planning and implementation of subprojects, and provides for the contracting
of both public and private sector agencies to implement works, depending on
who is best placed to do so. Thiw should further improve the effectiveness of
Colombia's rural development efforts (paras. 6.13 and 7.01).
9.          As noted previously, the DRI program has been relatively
successful in improving the standard of living of the rural poor and it has
been sustained throughout several Colombian administrations. The program
incorporates a number of the more successful features of rural development
efforts identified in the Bank's Report on Experience with Rural Development
(Report No. 6883), in that it: (a) uses existing institutions/structures to
implement projects; (b) coordinates its assistance with other sectoral
programs; and (c) backs its agricultural production projects with extension
services and technology. Indeed, a key to DRI success has been its ability to
change with changing circumstances. As an implementing agency it h%s never
been directly involved in doing the physical works under the project. Rather
it has contracted other line agencies of Government to do such works and
thereby avoided the duplicative, uncoordinated and often unsustainable nature
of mabny of the earlier integrated rural development projects (para. 7.02).
Loesons of the Proiect
10.         The main lessons stemming from the project and the manner in which
they have been addressed in the follow-on project are as follows:
(a)   Counteroart Fundina:  The untimely availability of counterpart
funds proved to be an intractable problem throughout much of the
project implementation. The importance of timely and adequate



- vi -
couwlterpart funding in well documented and it is hoped the
combined efforts made under the follow-on project will alleviate
the problem. In the follow-on project special efforts have boen
made to address this problem by establishing a one year advance
planning and budgeting program cycle. Coupled with this,
Government introduced a new national budget system requiring that
specific provisions be made to earmark counterpart funds for all
externally financed projects in the budget. More importantly, the
new function of DRI requires that, rather than fully fund rural
development subprojects, it would now cofinance these with
municipalities who would be =equired to earmark a share of the IVA
taxes they receive for this purpose.
(b)   Mozitorino and Evaluations  This was not adequately done under the
prrject. By getting key actions taken at the outset of the
follow-on project:, it is hoped that better monitoring will be
possible. Therefore, in the follow-on project a conditlon of
effectiveness was that DRI establish and put into operation a
monitorlng system to track the processing of projects through the
entire project planning, execution, and supervision cycle, Also,
as a condition of effectiveness, it was required that consultants
be hired to undertake a baseline survey. During the project,
provision has also been made for a review of how well
administrative procedures and management is functioning, after the
second year of the project. This would be followed up with a mid-
term evaluation of the project by independent consultants, to be
followed by the preparation of an action plan to allow for mid-
course corrections.
(c)   Institutional CAoacitv And Authority& The project encountered
difficulties in obtaining disbursements in a timely manner, since
Government procedures typically took over 100 days to process
disbursement requests. Also, DRI had difficulty coordinati.lg the
activities of the 11 cooperating agencies at the national level
(and numerous agencies at the regional level) implementing the
project, and had no authority to ensure the adequacy of the
accounting procedures followed or the accuracy and timeliness of
submission of agency audit or progress reports. In the follow-on
project, these difficulties have been addressed by having DRI
function as a cofinancing agency, whereby ORI cofinances agreed
activities with municipalities and a small number of other
agencies. Contracts for implementing the various programs are,
therefore, no longer the responsibility of DRI, thereby reducing               3
DRI's administrative burden.  To improve the administrative
processes, a condition of Board presentation was that Government
introduce new procedures reducing the time taken to process                    j
disbursement requests from 103 to 40 days. This has been done.
Further improvements in the management of DRI's program include
strengthening bottom-itp planning by the municipalities and by
local communities. Also, the scope of the DRI program has been
narrowed to focus primarily on improving agricultural productivity
and directly associated infrastructure. Aspects dealing with



- vii -
health, education and power would no longer be supported by DRI.
Inote-ad, such activities would be financed and managed by the
municipalitios in cooperation with the reopective eectoral
Ministries.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
Part I - Proiect Review from Bank's Perspective
1.        Proiect Identity
Project Name:        Integrated Rural Development Project Phase II
Loan No.:            2174-CO
RVP Unit:            Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:             Colombia
Sector:              Agriculture
Subsector:           Rural Development
2.        Proiect Backaround
2.01      The major sector objectives were to:  (a) increase resource
productivity in the agricultural sector; (b) improve efficiency and
competitiveness of the marketing system; (c) develop agroindustries to
stabilize demand and increase employment and rural incomes; and (d) increase
foreign exchange earnings through exports of agricultural products. The small
farmer was to be assisted by specific integrated rural development programs,
accompanied by technical assistance and credit services, to consolidate the
agrarian reform process.
3.        Proiect ObJectives and DescriRtion
3.01      The primary objectives of tLi project were to:  (a) improve rural
living conditions through the construction of infrastructure (roads, electric
power connections, and piped water supply) and through the increase of primary
health and education services and facilities; and (b) increase food production
of small farmers through increased yields and iti'tnsified land use, coupled
with programs of supervised credit, technical assistance, training, and
marketing.
4.        Proiect Design and oraanization
4.01      The project was complex, with numerous components and executing
agencies. Nevertheless, it was carefully defined in scope and understood by
all relevant parties, primarily because of the experience gained in the
implementation of the first phase (1976-1984). The project was prepared by
the DRI/PAN Directorate in the National Planning Department (DNP). The
appraisal mission, comprising fourteen persons, remained one month in the
country; two follow-up missions were required to finalize project appraisal.
In the Bank, the loan approval process required the participation of many of
the Bank's technical units. This high level of staff input was well spent in



designing what has become a successful approach for achieving sustainable
rural development in Colombia.
5.        Pro_ect Imolementation
5.01      The loan closing date was extended for 18 months in two steps, from
December 31, 1988 to June 30, 1990 (Table 2, page 1 of 3). Fiscal constraints
between 1981 and 1984, and between 1986 and 1988, delayed project execution.
However, the overall project did succeed in fully meeting many of its targets
and has contributed to the continued development of rural Colombia. There
were delays of about seven months in declaring the loan effective
(May 18, 1983) (Table 2, page 1 of 3); and the first Bank disbursement took
place 20 months after loan signing. Delays in meeting the conditions of
disbursement and the signing of subsidiary agreements between DNP and each of
the 11 national executing agencies contributed to slow project start-up. In
addition, during project implementation, several more executing agencies were
added, totalling 27 agencies at one point in time.
5.02      Other problems that contributed to project delays weret
(a) institutional changes taking place after 1981 when the Integrated
Rural Development Program, the DRI Fund (DRI), was moved from DNP
to the Ministry of Agriculture. This was done because it became
clear that the task of administering projects was too large for a
policymaking authority such as the DNP. DRI became a fully
autonomous agency in 1985. However, it did not become fully
operational until January 1988, one year before the original loan
closing date. These institutional changes, while conceptually
sound, did result in transitional problems of duplication in some
administrative activities with the Agricultural, Industrial, and
Mining Credit Bank (CAJA) (such as coordination with the Bank and
the executing agencies, and monitoring of project activities).
There was also poor progress reporting and frequent changes of DRI
management (in eight years, there were six general managers);
(b) processing of disbursement requests by Government and subsequent
movement of disbursed funds back through Government to the
executing agencies was very slow due to complicated Government
procedures. The process, from expenditure to receipt of funds, on
average required three to four months (para. 5.07); and
(c) DRI's difficulties in getting the various executing agencies to
submit timely audit reports, led to the Bank's non-acceptance of
disbursements against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for almost a
year in 1986 (para. 5.09).
5.03      Proiect Risks.  Of the potential risks identified by the appraisal
mission (functioning of the marketing system and DRI's administrative and
management capacity), only the institutional changes taking place during
project implementation were of significant consequence.



- 3 -
5.04      Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect Im2lementation.  The
Government'"s insufficient budget allocations since project inception hampered
project implementation. Starting in 1981, the country experienced a
deteriorating financial situation because the coffee bonanza of the late 1970e
had come to an end.  Also, insufficient number and high turnover of extension
agents did not facilitat3 implementation of the project (para. 6.03).
5.05      Procurement.  Procurement of equipment and vehicles was slow in the
beginning due to the Government's cumbersome administrative regulations for
procurement. After the bidding procedures were revised and approved by the
Bank on September 25, 1984, no significant problems were encountered.
5.06      Prolect Costs.  The final project cost was about US$139.2 million,
80% of appraisal estimate (US$173.2 million). The lower cost is due to the
higher than expected devaluation of the local currency (Part III, Table 4).
5.07      Disbursements.  Several factors contributed to the elow rate Gf
disbursement. Only US$40.8 million (77%) of the loan was diebursed. There
were delays in the Government processing of disbursement requests. Also
budget releases were often only made towards the end of the Colombian fiecal
year, when it was too late to contract and pay for works within that period.
Government regulations require that funds not committed before the end of the
fiscal year have to be returned to the Treasury. As a result, budgetary funds
could often not be utilized for the project. However, in spite of slow
disbursements, physical implementation did proceed reasonably well
(para. 5.01).
5.08      Reportino.  Progress reporting was poor because DRI management was
unable to organize its own monitoring and evaluation unit for the project.
Since 1976, project administration, control and monitoring activities had been
under CAJA. This had worked effectively during the first phase project, but
DRI management failed to clarify with CAJA how this was to be done under the
subsequent project. Therefore, some project administration and monitoring
activities were carried out by the two institutions, other activities were
omitted. The agreement with CAJA was revised only in December 1984. But the
performance of CAJA was not satisfactory, in part because of its passive
attitude and the poor collaboration of the executing agencies. Both
institutions reported conflicting and unreliable project progress data, in
part due to methodological differences and generally poor coordination.
5.09      Auditing.  The audited financial statements of the executing
agencies were always submitted late to the Bank, and the auditors'
recommendations were often not carried out by DRI and the executing agencies.
DRE and 13 of the executing agencies failed to include an explicit opinion in
the 1985 audit reports on the legitimacy of expenses against which the
Government had requested disbursements using the Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) procedure. For this reason, on October 28, 1986, the Bank ceased to
accept disbursements by SOE procedures. This situation lasted almost a year
for some of the agencies and led to project delays.
5.10      ComDliance with Loan Conditions.  The Borrower did not fully comply
with the following covenants of the Loan Agreement: 3.01(a), 3.02, 3.04(b),



- 4 -
5.10      gomoliance with Loan Conditions.  The Borrower did not fully comply
with the following covenants of the Loan Agreements 3.01(a), 3.02, 3.04(b),
3.06(d)(e), 3.20(b)(iii)(c) and 4.02(e)(d). Such covenants required
sufficient counterpart funds be available; hiring consultants for project
control and monitoring; maintaining files for registering project activities;
preparing, and on-time presentation of, progress reports and the preparation
by the Ministry of Public Health (MINSALUD) of a program to improve the
provision of primary health care services (Part III, Table 6).
6.        Proiect Results
6.01      In spite of the difficulties during implementation, the majority of
the physical targets were met or exceeded and the project continued to sustain
the achievements of the previous (first phase) project./ The Bank and
Government ob4ective of poverty alleviation was largely achieved through the
project, as evidenced by the improved standard of living of project
beneficiaries (para. 6.14).
6.02      Agricultural Credit.  The project provided seasonal, medium- and
long-term subloans to about 25,000 beneficiary farm families (including about
5,400 of the first phase project) financed entirely by CAJA. Credit to
cooperatives and farmer groups was provided by the Colombian Institute for
Financing and Development of Cooperatives (FINANCIACOOP), for marketing and
processing plants. Project families received credit for home improvement.
Except for working capital for marketing and processing for which subloans
financed up to 100% of requirements, sub borrowers contributed at least 15% of
production costs financed by the subloans. Interest rates varied from 18% to
24%. With regard to the appraisal targets, about 21,000 (105%) beneficiaries
of this project, and about 5,100 (94%) of the first phase project received
production credit. By contrast marketing subloans reached 36 (59% of target),
while subloans for agro-processing reached only 13 (24% of target). A
contributing factor to the lack of demand is that the farmer groups were too
small to avail themselves of this type of creditY.
6.03      Technical Assistance and Trainino.  The Colombian Agricultural
Institute's (ICA) extension agents were to prepare farm plans, make
projections of small farmer credit needs for four to five years, provide
1/   The PCR for the first phase project (Loan 1352-CO) concluded that the
primary strategy for improving farmers' income through increasing
yields, reducing idle land, and introducing a managerial approach to
farming and marketing was successful.  Implementing agencies which
failed to perform satisfactorily during Phase I were not included in the
second phase of the project.  And the issue of slow disbursement                      I
processing in Colombia (about 18 months) for the first phase project has
been reduced to 3-4 months for this project.
ai   No information is available on cost recovery; there is no statistical
information per year of the DRI loan portfolio, and the DRI subloan
portfolio does not separate information for phase I and phase II
beneficiaries.



implementation, because it had to assign its extension agents to a
complementary program, the National Rehabilitation Program (PNR).  At the
time, PNR had somewhat higher priority than the DRI program because it dealt
with providing public assistance to areas of the country where security
problems were an issue.  ICA also had difficulties in hiring now extension
agents due to a freeze on Government personnel hiring during several years in
which Colombia faced severe fiscal constraints. To resolve this problem, DRI
signed an agreement with the National Federation of Coffee Growers (FEDECAFl),
whereby the latter provided agricultural extension services in the Departments
of Caldas, Huila and Tolima. However, there was a high turnover of extension
agents hired by the local coffee federations, because their oontracts lasted
only one year. DRI further tried to strengthen the extension service by
signing another agreement with CAJA, which provided additional extension
agents under its extension program. This did improve the services to DRI
beneficiaries. The adaptation trials and demonstration plots were designed
and carried out for a few marketable commodities and livestock activities (in
each district). However, it took more time than anticipated to get results.
Also the technological recommendations to farmers have emphasized productivity
without adequately taking into account the marketing problems which arose from
time to time. Furthermore, there was poor coordination between the executing
agencies in charge of the agricultural production, credit and marketing.
Nevertheless, these problems do not appear to have seriously affected the
overall project.
6.04      The National Apprenticeship Services (SENA) was to provide
technical courses to farmers and technical personnel of the executing agencies
involved in the production activities.  SENA provided 1,543 program induction
courses to about 26,000 farmers (237% of the target); 5,070 technical courses
to about 68,000 farmers (166% of the target); and 1,659 marketing courses to
about 40,000 farmers (243% of the target). The marketing courses were
reported to have been very helpful. However, SENA did not reach the target
set for technical courses to staff of the executing agencies, i.e, only
91 courses to about 1,700 participants (54% of appraisal estimate). The
shortfall is primarily due to ICA staff hiring problems and lack of trip
expenses for participants.
6.05      Natural Resources.  The Institute for Renewable Natural Resources
and the Environment (INDERENA) was successful in providing technical
assistance for the construction of 1,600 farm fish ponds (225% of target).
However, the target to plant 1,100 ha of trees was not reached and there is no
reliable data as to how many hectares were planted. The same conclusions
apply to the protection of microwatersheds.
Infrastructure
6.06      Roads.  The roads program, executed by the National Fund for Rural
Roads (CAVECINALES), completed 723 km of new roads (268% of target) and
improved 424 km of existing roads (157% of appraisal estimate). The main
problem with the road component is the lack of maintenance. This is being
addressed in the follow-on project through a requirement that municipalLties
set aside a certain amount of theLr budget for road maintenance. Maintaining



- 6 -
a satisfactory road maintenance record is now a requirement for receiving
additional DRI funding.
6.07      Water Suonl.  This component was executed by the National
Institute of Health (INS). INS installed, or completed, 210 systems as
compared to the target of 176 (119%). The main problem was that INS had
severe financial and administrative problems. It was replaced in the
beginning of 1988 by organizations at the departmental level.
6.08      Electrification.  The electrification program was executed by the
departmental power companies and supervised by the Colombian Institute for
Electrical Power (ICEL), which provided the design and supplied the
construction materials. The number of house connections was 6,423 (134% of
the appraisal target). Farmers contributed 25% of the power installation
charge. The problems encountered with this component were: higher than
expected costs; initial financial problems, because procedures for cost
recovery had not been established; some of the villages included in the
project did not meet the criteria established, e.g., in terms of the allowed
cost per house connection; and the lack of agreement between ICEL and the
Electrificadora of Caldas. Despite these problems, the component was
successful. A major improvement resulting from the electrification program
was the move from firewood to electric cooking, which has taken the pressure
off the land for wood fuel, and contributed to natural resource protection.
social Services
6.09      Health.  The Ministry of Public Health (MINSALUD) was responsible
for constructing and equipping 41 new health centers (228% of revised target);
remodelling 135 existing centers (113% of revised target); and remodelling
34 hospitals (189% of revised target). Special training was provided to
2,149 staff, including health promoters (442% of the revised target). Many of
the newly constructed health centers had limited use or were not used at all
because MINSALUD's operational budget and pay scale did not allow hiring of
the necessary staff. In 1987, targets were revised to give priority to
renovation rather than building new hospitals and health centers. However, in
the Tolima Department, many existing centere had to be rebuilt. The major
operational problem with this component has been the poor coordination between
MINSALUD and Servicios Seccionales (SSS).
6.10      Education.  The National Fund of the Ministry of Education
(FONDO/MEN) was responsible, at the national level, for the execution of this
component. Several regional and local agencies, such as the Colombian
Institute for School Building (ICCE) and Regional Education Funds (FERs),
among others, had the local responsibility. The number of school classrooms
constructed was 1,296 (185% of the target) and the number of schools that
received furniture, purchased with project funds, was 1,081 (108% of the
target). As in the health component, the main problem has been poor
coordination between FONDO/MEN and the regional and local agencies.



-7-
other Comoonentg
6.11      Management. Monitorina and Evaluation.  The poor project monitoring
has been explained in para. 5.08. The evaluation unit, originally part of
DNP's project management, never developed as an analytical tool to
continuously evaluate the project's impact. This was exacerbated by the fact
that project management was overwhelmed by the task of day-to-day control of
the activities of the participating agencies. To get some more detailed
evaluation, DRI management, as in the first phase, subcontracted for an impact
evaluation to be done through two surveys in 1984 and 1989. These were done
in approximately one third of the municipalities under the project and, within
the limits of the data, provide a good evaluation which has been helpful in
preparing this PCR.
6.12      Pilot Activity.  In 1989, in line with the Government's
Decentralization Reform, the project was modified to incorporate a pilot
activity involving 38 additional municipalities to test new procedures. The
pilot was done to see how DRI's operations could be brought in line with the
decentralization reforms of the Government and yet ensure the sustainability
of the rural development efforts. DRI, instead of contracting public
implementing agencies, would in future cofinance municipalities. The
municipalities in turn, would contract private and public entities to carry
out works. The pilot did contribute to developing effective mechanisms for
cofinancing between DRI and the municipalities, a key feature of the recently
approved follow-on project, the Rural Development Investment Program (RDIP)
(Loan 3250-Co).
6.13      The Strengthening of DRI.   In 1989, the project was modified to
support the further strengthening of DRI in line with the revieed modus
operandi following from the decentralization reforms. This involved a
modified institutional structure of DRI at the regional level, along with
additional computers, equipment, and vehicles.
6.14      Proiect Impact. While the data are not available for the overall
project area, the impact evaluations done in 19 of the 55 municipalities,
i.e., in the districts of Tolima (eight municipalities) and Huila (11
municipalities), do provide useful data/. The Tolima District studies (1984
and 1989) concluded that 56% of the population improved their houses, 64% and
55% had access to electricity and potable water, respectively. However,
education and health services remained at the same level in spite of the
project actions. The participation of the rural families in community
organizations increased from 39% in 1984 to 84% in 1989. During the same
period (1984-89), average agricultural productivity showed considerable
increases in some crops such as maize (71%), sorghum (38%) and sesame (128%).
For the agricultural production component, the evaluation impact study
estimated an economic rate of return of 37% which confirmed the economic
efficiency of the DRI investments. The Huila Sur studies of evaluation impact
(1984 and 1989) concluded that 58% of the households surveyed improved their
i/   The impact studies are available in LAC Files.



- 8 -
houses, 25% purchased now houses, 74% gained access to electricity and 58%
gained access to potable water. Education and health services appear to have
improved somewhat. Average agricultural productivity (1984-89) showed
increases in beans (26%), banana (62%), and cassava (400%). In addition, the
area planted to coffee increased by 100%. This together with the coffee boom
of the mid 19801, certainly contributed to the project's good results.
6.15      Financial Analysis.  Based on the same illustrative farm models
that were envisaged at appraisal for representative small farms in different
altitudes, actual data was used and compared with appraisal estimates. The
analyses indicate a financial rate of return (FRR) ranging from 37% - >50% at
project completion, which compares favorably with an FRR of >S0% estimated at
appraisal. There are indications that the project is still attractive to
small farmers because the relative increase in incomes of 52% - 208% at
project completion compares favorably with the relative increase in incomes of
64% - 185% estimated at appraisal (details are presented in Part III, Table 5,
page 5 of 8).
6.16      Economic Analysio.  The economil' rate of return (ERR) at project
completion, computed over 20 years, is estimated to be 39% compared with the
appraisal estimate of 23%. The economic analysis was done for the
agricultural component only and is based on the illustrative farm models used
for the financial analysis. Details for farm model No. 1 (1.5 ha) are given
in Part III, Table 5, page 7 as a sample. The higher ERR at project
completion results from the increased yields and output prices for the
agricultural products (assumptions in Part III, Table 5, page 4).
7.        Sustainabilitv
7.01      Prospects for sustainability of benefits appear to be good since:
(a) the Government continues to recognize and be committed to supporting DRI's
key role in building self-reliance among poorer rural populations; (b) the
project has significantly strengthened DRI and, indeed, transformed its
functions and procedures in line with changing circumstances in Colombia,
notably the decentralization reformsl and (c) the DRI program has now been in
operation for some fourteen years and, while it has changed in form
considerably over the years, it has developed a good track record of sustained
support. Thus, it can be expected that project beneficiaries wlll continue to
receive production support and improved services. Indeed, the follow-on DRI
project places even greater emphasis on local participation in both the
planning and implementation of subprojects, and provides for the contracting
of both public and private sector agencies to implement works, depending on
who is best placed to do so. This should further improve the effectiveness of
Colombia's rural development efforts.
7.02      As noted previously, the DRI program has been relatively successful
in improving the standard of living of the rural poor and it has been
sustained throughout several Colombian administrations. The program
incorporates a number of the more successful features of rural development
efforts identified in the Bank's Report on Experience with Rural Development
(Report No. 6883), in that its (a) uses existing institutions/structures to
implement projects; (b) coordinates its assistance with other sectoral



- 9 -
programsl and (c) backs its agricultural production projects with extension
i         services and technology.  Indeed, a key to DRI success has been its ability to
change with changing circumstances. As an implementing agency it has never
been directly involved in doing the physical works under the project. Rather
it has contracted other line agencies of Government to do such works and
thereby avoided the duplicative, uncoordinated and often unsustainable nature
of many of the earlier integrated rural development projects.
8.        Bank and Borrower Performance
8.01      Bank Performance.  The Bank's performance was satisfactory
throughout project implementation. Relations between the Bank and DRI were
cordial at all times and the Bank acted supportively and flexibly to resolve
project problems or to respond to changing circumstance. in Colombia. The
following Bank actions contributed to successful project implementation: (a)
introduction of uniform bidding procedures for Bank loans in Colombia, on
September 25, 1984; (b) inclusion of the project in the Bank's Special Action
Program, on February 11, 1985. This allowed Bank financing for the project to
increase from 50% to 80%, and helped ensure DRI's liquidity during project
implementation; (c) opening of a Special Account, on Nlovember 5, 1985, to
increase the pace of disbursements and, in April 1989, increasing the amount
of this account from US$4.0 million to US$6.0 million; (d) agreement to modify
the description of a small farmer in the Loan Agreement in order to include
farms up to S0 ha; (a) flexibility by the Bank for extending deadlines for DRI
submission to the Bank of the field surveys for project impact evaluation;
(f) agreement to include two new project components (the pilot scheme and the
strengthening of DRI) which has contributed to the smooth follow-on of the
subsequent project; and (g) flexibility by the Bank in extending the project
closing date on two occasions.
8.02      Borrower Performance.   In spite of the implementation problems
stated in paras. 5.01 and 5.02, DRI's effective performance in project
coordination may be due to the experience gained in the first phase. However,
DRI performed less than satisfactory in monitoring project activities. DRI
is, in fact, a young institution, created in 1976. Since 1982, when the Bank
loan was approved, DRI's annual budget has increased 300%, but DRI has been
able to maintain staff growth to just 56%. The successful execution of this,
and the previous project, led to Bank approval of a subsequent operation
(para. 6.12). The main weaknesses of DRI have been: (a) failure to clarify
the project administration and monitoring responsibilities with CAJA, causing
duplication of some of these activities and a weak management information
system in DRI; and (b) lack of a personnel policy providing staff members with
adequate skills training for their work.
8.03      Lessons of the Proiect.   The main lessons stemming from the
project and the manner in which they have been addressed in the follcow-on
project are as follows:
(a) Counteroart Fundina: The untimely availability of counterpart
funds proved to be an intractable problem throughout much of the
project. The importance of timely and adequate counterpart funding
is well documented and it is hoped the combined efforts made under



- 10 -
the follow-on project will alleviate the problem. In the follow-on
project, special efforts have been made to address this problem by
establishing a one year advance planning and budgeting program
cycle. Coupled with this, Government introduced a new national
budget system requiring that specific provisions be made to earmark
counterpart funds for all externally financed projects in the
budget. More importantly, the new function of DRI requires that,
rather than fully fund rural development subprojects, it would now
cofinance these with municipalities who would be required to
earmark a share of the IVA taxes they receive for this purpose.
(b) MonLtorino And Evaluation: This was not adequately done under the
project. By getting key actions taken at the outset of the follow-
on project, it is hoped that better monitoring will be possible.
Therefore, in the follow-on project a condition of effectiveness
was that DRI establish and put into operation a monitoring system
to track the processing of projects through the entire project
planning, execution, and supervision cycle. Also, as a condition
of effectiveness, it was required that consultants be hirod to
undertake a baseline survey. During the project, provision has
also been made for a review of how well administrative procedures
and management is functioning, after the second year of the
project. This would be followed-up with a mid-term evaluation of
the project by independent consultants, to be followed by the
preparation of an action plan to allow for mid-course corrections.
(c)  Institutional Capacitv and Authority:  The project encountered
difficulties in obtaining disbursements in a timely manner, since
Government procedures typically took over 100 days to process
disbursement requests. Also, DRI had difficulty coordinating the
activities of the 11 cooperating agencies at the national level
(and numerous agencies at the regional level) implementing the
project, and had no authority to ensure the adequacy of the
accounting procedures followed or the accuracy and timeliness of
submission of agency audit or progress reports. In the follow-on
project, theme difficulties have been addressed by having DRI
function as a cofinancing agency, whereby DRI cofinances agreed
activities with municipalities and a small number of other
agencies. Contracts for implementing the various programs are,
therefore, no longer the responsibility of DRI, thereby reducing
DRI's administrative burden. To improve the administrative
processes, a condition of Board presentation was that Government
introduce new procedures reducing the time taken to process
disbursement requests from 103 to 40 days. This has been done.
Further improvements in the management of DRIs program include
strengthening bottom-up planning by the municipalities and local
communities. Also, the scope of the DRI program has been narrowed
to focus primarily on improving agricultural productivity and
directly associated infrastructure. Aspects dealing with health,
education and power would no longer be supported by DRI. Instead,
such activities would be financed and managed by the municipalities
in cooperation with the respective sectoral Ministries.



- 11 -
9.        Proiact Relationships
9.01      Imoact of Relationshis on Proiect Imolementation.  The success of
this project has been assisted by the good working relationship between the
Bank and the Borrower, and between the various institutions involved. In
addition, DRI has been able to maintain effective coordination with other
sectoral programs in the country, a key feature which has not existed in rural
development programs elsewhere.
10.       Consultino Services
10.01          The project hired local consultants to:  (a) prepare designs
of the infrastructure component; (b) carry out field studies to evaluate the
project impact; and (c) prepare specific studies to help DRI and the
municipalities implement the pilot scheme. However, in the early year. of
project implementation, DRI failed to contract consultants for specific
technical assistance for some of the executing agencies. In general, the
local consultants' inputs during project execution were important, and their
performance was satisfactory.
11.       proiect Documentation and Data
11.01          The Staff Appraisal Report was useful during project
execution. Overall, DRI monitoring and evaluating capacity was weak. The PCR
has been prepared based on the information existing in DRI offices and in the
field surveys of evaluation impact conducted in 1984 and 1989.



- 12 -
Part II. Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
The Borrower has completed a Full Project Completion Report (PCR).
Attached is the unedited text of Burrower's PCR from which we have deleted the
descriptive portions of the report. The Full PCR is available in LAC Files.



- 13 -
Selected sections from the Pgoiect Completion Report for the
Second Integrated Rural Dezelopment Proiect iLoan 2174-COt
2.06        Prior to 1986, the Second Integrated Rural Development Project was
implemented during a time of economic crisis and stagnation in agricultural
production due to the dislocations caused by the coffee boom at the end of the
1970s and the fiscal deficit. In late 1982 the first corrective measures were
introduced in the form of import controls, faster devaluation, limitations on
government spending and higher custom duties and taxes. As these measures
were not sufficient to put an end to the economic recession, the Government
established the Macroeconomic Adjustment Plan in 1984. The economy as a whole
and the agriculture sector in particular began to recover significantly in
1986, stimulated by the coffee boom in that year and the ensuing rise in
external aggregate demand.  In addition, the Social Economic Plan (1987-90)
sought to restore the dynamism of agricultural production through price
mechanisms and customs protection. That policy of sectoral protection was
strengthened in 1988 with the Selective Supply Plan, which sought to
concentrate all of the sector's technical and financial resources on eight
products (maize, rice, cassava, beans, soybeans, cinnamon, sesame and
sunflower).
2.07        The Government's political base for the rural sector now consists
of the National Rehabilitation Plan (Plan Nacional de Rehabilltacl6n -- PNR),
Integrated Rural Development Program for Peasants (Programa de Desarrollo
Integral Campesino -- PDIC) and the new Agrarian Reform Law, which are the
regional and local instruments that seek to improve the living conditions of
the population as a whole.
4.03        The Government also decided that domestic funds would finance the
continuation of the program in the areas covered by the first project, with a
view to the gradual establishment of an ongoing program in those areas,
independent of external financing. (When the loan was negotiated with the
Bank, the Government agreed to provide all funds for credit and farm and
marketing advisory services necessary to ensure the direct beneficiaries of
the first project that the development plans on their farms would be
completed.)
5.2(e)      Because of the importance accorded to integrated rural development
and its high priority within the agriculture sector, the Government
established the DRI Fund. However, DRI could operate as such only as of
January 1, 1988 because the regulations governing its operation had not been
finalized. Decree 77 of January 1987 established the bases of the
administrative decentralization reforms in which DRI would support the local
governments in the preparation and cofinancing of the rural development plans,



- 14 -
based on grass-roots participation and diversification of ecor.omic
alternatives for small farmers. Decree 77 also recognized DRI as a public
entity of nationwide scope with administrative and financial autonomy,
responsible for setting policy guidelines for rural development, especially as
regards peasant, minifundlo and settlement areas. Decree 2428 of October 24,
1989 org&nized DRI, giving its 21 regional offices greater authority and
responsibility.
6.02        In general, project objectives to improve the living standards in
the rural areas specifically selected as well as to increase the availability
of basic foodstuffs for urban dwellers, were satisfactorily achieved, as
evidenced by the DRI impact evaluation studies made in 1989 in two of the four
departments where the project was carried out, and where a baseline diagnostic
study had previously been done in 1984.
Project Stability
7.01        It is not anticipated that there will be problems with project
self-sustainability because the first project is still stable six years
following the closing of the Bank loan and because both projects continue to
receive credit and technical assistance services from the Government (in the
case of the second project, production credit has always been granted with
funds from FFAP and CAJA AGRARIA).
7.02        In the wake of the satisfactory execution of the first and second
Integrated Rural Development Projects, the Bank has approved the financing of
a third project (May 1990), entitled the Integrated Rural Development Program
for Peasants (PDIC), which is nationwide in scope. The Program, reflecting
the policy changes of the Government in support of administrative
decentralization, will essentially provide institutional building for DRI and
support for local municipal management. Nevertheless, implementation will
differ from the two preceding projects, but will help ensure their sustained
stability principally because the project has the same primary objective of
raising rural income, and because the activities will be carried out
preferably in regions with a high concentration of small farms where there are
already DRI beneficiaries. In addition, activities are concentrated in the
production component, facilitating access to the factors of production and
modern techniques that tend to preserve the productive potential of the
natural resources, which should help ensure that the increases in productivity
on the small farms can be maintained over the longer run.
Bank Performance
8.01        Bank performance was satisfactory throughout project
implementation, and Bank relations with DRI and other executing agencies were
cordial. The complexity of the project required an extraordinary effort,
first during preparation and subsequently during appraisal and supervision.
The technical and financial problems that were resolved during execution show
that when the project was prepared allowance was made for possible and
unforeseen problems. The Bank likewise achieved good results when it acted
with flexibility and, in conjunction with DRI, took corrective measures to
step up loan disbursements.



- 15 -
8.03        Nevertheless, the Bank was very inflexible in requiring compliance
wlth Article 4.02 Ic and d) of the Loan Agreement, with regard to the
submission of audit reports, especially in connection with statements of
expenditures for each project executing agency. Submission to the Bank of the
audit reports on the statements of expenditure for 1985 was substantially
delayed precisely because in previous years the Bank did not enforce that
requLrement. In addition, the Government and DRI did not accord those
covenants their special importance when the loan was being negotiated. When,
in 1986, DRI was requLred to comply fully with the covenant, it was almost a
year before it could have the corrective measurea taken within the executing
agencils, which posed obstacles to obtaining Bank funds.
8.04        The main lessons learned, which could be important for other
projects, are as followst
(a)   The Bank placed great importance on the monitoring and evaluation
of project activities. Throughout project implementation, the
General Directorate first and DRI subsequently could not organize
their own monitoring and evaluation eystems, primarily because of
the successive changes within the organization and their
institutional etructure. Moreover, the uncertainty as to whether
CAJA AGRARIA was to resume monitoring and evaluation of project
activities, as under the first project, also delayed the decision
that DRI itself would set up its own monitoring and evaluation
unit. Nevertheless, beginning in 1988, DRI has sought to organize
its own monitoring and evaluation system without succeeding
(despite Bank support and the fact that a procedure implemented in
1984 was tried in the field, because DRIVs objectives were changed
in view of the new concept of cofinancing between it and the
municipalities).
The lesson for the Bank is that the monitoring and evaluation
system must be located within the same project unit that reports
directly to management, and that it must be established and
operating before project implementation begins.
(b)   Durlng execution of the first project, the Bank required DRI and
the executing agencies to submit their audited financial
statements and accounts for each fiscal year, no later than four
months after they ended. The Bank learned that four months was
not realistic because each year the provisions of the Loan
Agreement were not carried out. In this second project, the Bank
required the audit reports to be submitted no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year. This did not resolve
the problem of timely submission of audit reports either. In
projects such as this, in which many national, regional and local
executing agencies are involved, it is difficult to have them all
submit their financial statements to the Office of the Controller
on time. The Bank and the Controller should rate each entity
before it becomes an executing agency to determine whether it
qualifies on the basis of its administrative and accounting



- 16 -
structures. In addition, if for justified grounds the favorable
ruling of the Controller cannot be acquired within the set time-
frame, the Bank should approve an extension. Such extensions
would be done only once or twice at a maximum during project
implementation. The Bank should also determine whether
noncompliance with the deadline for submission for audit reports
is due to delays emanating from the Office of the Controller
itself, in which case the executing agency should not carry the
entire burden of the Bank's charges. Another lesson that the Bank
has learned on this aspect of audit reports is that each year the
auditors make the same recommendations to certain executing
agencies that never correct th6 deficiencies encountered. These
should be resolved within a reasonable period so that the
recommendations of the auditors are always carried out withln the
next fiscal year. The Bank should suspend disbursements or
exclude from the project, depending on the seriousness of the
nonperformance, agencies that do not implement the recommendations
of the auditors. Moreover, on the basis of its experience, the
Bank has recommended that the entities with a negative ruling or
abstention from the auditors should not be executing agencies
under the new project. In this respect, the Dank should give DRI
the responsibility through its central office and regional
departments to ensure compliance with this recommendation, as
regards both the deadlines for audit reports and the
recommendations of the auditors.
(e)   Furthermore, Bank experience in Colombia showed a lack of
sufficient and timely counterpart budget funds. In order to
resolve this problem in part, the Bank included this project in
its special Action Program that increased the disbursement
percantage of the main categories of the loan, which facliltated
and accelerated implementation.
(g)   One of the most importan'.t lessons learned by the Bank is to have
finaiced a pilot plan (in 1989) with unutilized funds from the
project, involving 38 municipalities in an experiment that would
be usef4l to the implementation of the Integrated Rural
Develor ant Program for Peasants (PDIC), partially financed by the
Bank.
9.01        DRI performance was uneven.  In general, general project
coordination was satisfactory, owing primarily to the experience DRI had
acquired in the implementation of the first project. However, performance was
unsatisfactory as regards the monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
9.04        A weakness of the DRI-PAN program and DRI itself was that the
situation with CAJA had not been defined in time as regards the co-
administration of the project, which impeded overall administration and
coordination of the project from 1982 until 1987, causing duplication in both
management with the executing agencies and with the Bank, and duplication in
the handling of information because the original 1976 DNP/CAJA contract was



- 17 -
still in force and, as noted above, the new December 1984 contract, covering
CAJA involvement in certain activities, was not working as expected.
9.05        As also noted above, another DRI weakness during project
*         implementation was that it did not have adequate monitoring and evaluation or
management infLrmation systems, the result of which was poor preparation of
progress reports. Other institutional weaknesses -- also important -- were
that the recommendations in the audit reports prepared by the Controller of
the Republic were not considered important and much of the personnel was
inexperienced in project formulation and evaluation techniques, especially in
the agriculture sector.
9.10        With regard to the production credit component, despite its
financial problems during certain periods, such as in 1988, CAJA performed
satisfactorily and, for all intents and purposes, achieved its targets,
although this cannot be shown with actual figures because the available data
are not reliable. In addition to FFAP funds, CAJA used its own resources and
when it became evident that the number of credit agents would have to be
increased, CAJA hired them. Lastly, when technical assistance to farmers
suffered because of ICA limitations in recruiting extension agents and because
the Coffee-Grower Committees could not retain their agents, CAJA also worked
with DRI through its Extension Directed to Objectives Program (Programa de
Extensidn Dirigida a Objetivos -- EDO).
9.11        In the component covering credit for marketing and collection and
processing plants, the performance of FINANCIACOOP was satisfactory as regards
the granting of marketing credit and technical assistance. It was much more
difficult to grant credit and technical assistance to processing and
collection plants.
9.12        With regard to the component covering technical assistance for
production, the performance of ICA was poor as regards farm development
planning for the granting of credit and technical assistance direct to
individuals and to groups of farmers. This function was carried out by other
entities such as FEDECAFE and CAJA. In general, these other entities
performed satisfactorily despite the problems of personnel and logistics that
delayed the attaintment of the targets.
9.14        The main lessons learned by DRI that can be important to the
future of the institution are as follows:
(a)   The subsidiary agreements with other entitiee should be revised or
terminated in due course, such as occurred with CAJA, the Ministry
of Health, FONDO/MEN, ICEL and INDERENA.  The situation with CAJA,
regarding project coordination and administration, resulted in
duplication of functions, and in the case of other entities such
as the Ministry of Health, ICCE and ICEL, DRI learned somewhat
late that it should have contracted direct with the departmental
and not national offices.  In the case of INDERENA, the auditors
indicated the problems faced by that entity under the first
project, which worsened when the project began.



- 18 -
(b)   DRI should set up its project unit (external credlt unit) at the
highest administrative level, with appropriate technical personnel
at headquarters and in the regional offices. The personnel should
be suitably trained so that they can collect, process and publish
data frr Management, DRI itself and the Bank. Because such a unit
was not set up from the outset, all project information was
dispersed throughout the various departments, making it difficult
to prepare periodic reports for the Bank and consequently this
final report. During the years in which the External Credit
Division existed within DRI's basic structure, the problem was
temporarily resolved, but it reappeared when DRI was reorganized
and the division eliminated. communications between DRI and the
Bank began to suffer at that time. Even when most communications
are signed by the General Manager, they originate in various
offices. Because of uneven coordination, it is difficult to
maintain an institutional memory with uniform criteria and
centralized information.
(C)   In the light of DRI's new obligations and activities under the
PDIC, personnel policies must ensure incentives and career
stability, along with ongoing training, both in-service and at
training centers, for all personnel.
(d)   DRI should give greater importance to the audit reports and
implement the recommendations of the auditors. Executing entities
that do not satisfy the contractual stipulations or the
recommendations of the auditors should be terminated in due
course.
(e)   A review of the Special Account since its establishment (1985)
shows that there were long periods during which it had no
resources available, not because requests for repayment
(reposloi6n) were pending, but because of advances to the
executing agencies. The improper use by DRI of the funds in the
Special Account, authorizing advances that took up to a year to be
justified, impeded the proper recycling of funds and consequently
hampered implementation. In order to avoid a repetition of this
and because counterpart funds are not available at the beginning
of the year, the Bank should authorize a high disbursement
percentage during the first six months (for example, 80%),
compensating par! passu that agreed in the loan document.
(f)   Even though the Bank organized seminars on the preparation and
transmittal of disbursement requests for both DRI and the
executing agencies, the heads of the department in question and
not those in charge of that activity are occasionally trained.
Moreover, because of the extremely rapid turnover of personnel,
the training should be given more frequently. In the case of the
DRI Central Office, only one person, who has already left, was
sent to Bank headquarters.



- 19 -
(g)   When it appears that some of the loan funds will not be utilized
within the authorized period, they should be cancelled in order to
avoid unnecessary commitment fees.
10.03       The relations between DRI and leading government agencies -- DNP,
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture -- were cordial and
helped the project produce a positive outcome. DRI always had political
support to carry out the Integrated Rural Development Program. After the
implementation of this second project ends, a task that the Government has
accorded the highest priority should be carried out, namely, the Integrated
Rural Development Program for Peasants (PDIC), for which DRI is having
substantial changes made to its legal and organlzational structure.



- 20 -                                Part  I
Table 1
Pago 1 of 2
OJECT COHPLETION REPORT
COLONBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT PEASE It
(LgAN 2174-CO)
Related Bank Loans gJ
Year of
Loan Title               Purpose    Approval     Status           Comments
Second Atlantico       Irrigation    1972        Closed       At closing, the project
Donelopment                                                   internal rate of return was
(Loan 849-CO)                                                minus five.
The conclusion was that the
project could have been
implemented as a flood control
project instead of a sprinkler
irrigation project.
caqueta Rural          Rural Dev.    1975        Closed       Works execution was adequate
Settlement II                                                 but very slow due to the
Project                                                       permanent INCORA liquidity
(Loan 1118-CO)                                                problems.
More counterpart funds were
needed due to dulays in
execution and high inflation
rates.
Cordoba 2              Rural Dev.    1975         Closed      Land use did not change and
Agricultural                                                  extensive livestock production
Development Project                                           continued in spite of the fact
(Loan 1163-CO)                                                that improvements were
introduced by the project.
INCORA had a precarious
financial situation.
Lack of counterpart funds and
experienced technical staff.
a/ Agricultural loans before the Integrated Rural Development Project Phase II.



-21 -                                 PA=-=
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
Year of
Loan Title               Purpose    Approval      Status           Comments
Integrated Rural        Rural Dev.    1976        Closed       Project executlon was
Development Project                                            extremely complex wlth 12
(Loan 1352-CO)                                                 national executing agencLes
but results were posLtLve
since farmers Lncreased thelr
incomes.
Bank disbursement process and
Bank funds dellvery to the
executLng agencLes were
exceedingly slow due to
complex administrative
procedures.
Second Agricultural    Agricultural  1976         Closed       The FFAP credlt system was
Credit Project          Credlt                                 inadequate for small farmer.'
(Loan 1357-CO)                                                 needs.
Lack of counterpart funds
especlally reserved for small
farmers.
Third Agricultural    Agricultural  1979          Closed       The Government budget pollcy
Credlt Project          Credit                                 limLted the brldge flnancing
(Loan 1737-CO)                                                 responsLbliLty of the
executing agency.
AdmLnistratLve and technlcal
problems due to INCORA
weaknes.
IrrLgation              Irrigation    1981        Closed       Inadequate O&M cost
Rehabliltatlon I                                               recuperatlon in the irrlgation
Project                                                        districts.
(Loan 1996-CO)
The rehablIltated districts
did not achieve thelr
admlnistrative lndependence
nor did they organLio their
own irrigation associatLons.
Accountlng procedures at
HIMAT's headquarters did not
Lmprove.
Upper Magdalena         Watershed      1981       Closed       INDERENA, the executlng
Pilot Watershed         ProtectLon                             agency, had serlous
(Loan 2069-CO)                                                 admLnLstratLve problems, weak
management and lack of
counterpart funds.



- 22 -                         zSL I..
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
Proiect Timetable
Date        Date            Date
Planned     Revised        Actual
Identification Bank                       2/80                        2/80
Preparation Bank  A/                      Mar-Apr/80                  Mar-Apr/80
Follow-up Preparation Bank                9/80                        9/80
Appraisal                                 Feb/Mar/81                  Feb-Mar/81
Post-Appraisal I                          6/81                        6/81
Post-Appraisal 1I                         9/81                        9/81
Loan Negotiations                         3/4-9/82                    3/4-9/82
Follow-up Negotiations                    4/19-23/82                  4/19-23/82
Board Approval                            6/8/82                      6/8/82
Loan Signature                            7/26/82                     7/26/82
Loan Effectiveness                        10/26/82      12/16/82
3/16/83
5/20/83      5/18/83
Loan Closing                              12/31/88      12/31/89
6/30/90      6/30/90
Project Completion Report                 3/31/91                     3/31/91
a/ The Executive Project summary was issued on June 30, 1980.
The issues raised at each stage of the project cycle were:
Identification
-     control and monitoring of project activities had not been clarified
between DNP and CAJA;
-     CECORA, the marketing institution which did not perform satisfactorily
under the previous project, had to be replaced;
-     overlapping with sector projects (infrastructure components) under
preparation; and                                           -
-     the inclusion in the project of the health and education components
would depend on Governments formulation of adequate sectoral policies.



-23 -                          Part III
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
Pr-2aration
-     The institutional problem between DNP and CAJA remained au one of the
project's problems;
-     the continuation of activities in the areas of Phase I;
-     the amount of Bank loan;
-     overlapping with other Bank sector projects;
-     interest rates to farmers, subloans since CAJA had two different rates
of small farmers; and
-     under Phase I the main problems were related to delays in processing
Bank disbursements and procurement of equipment, vehicles and services.
Aporainal
-     the continuation of program activities in the areas of Phase 1;
-     the financing of agricultural credit operations;
-     the Bank percentage financing of the project and the Bank retroactive
financing;
-     the social components of the project;
-     changes in responsibility for administration and control of the project;
-     changes in responsibilities for the marketing component;
-     Bank disbursements; and
-     procurement of goods and services.
Neaotiations
-     the definition of small farmer was adjusted;
-     project total cost and Bank loan were also adjusted;
-     the Government would finance the credit and technical assistance
activities to Phase I beneficiaries; and
-     CAJA would not increase the interest rates of farmers' subloans and
would use FFAP funds for credit operations (the Bank loan would finance
only marketing and agroindustry subloans; the agricultural production
subloans would be financed by FlAP funds).



- 24 -                         PrII
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Ln Cloina
-     Project supervision and monitoring of project activities were mome of
the failures of DRI. As a result, the preparation of project progress
reports was poor;
-     tho presentation of auditing reports to the Bank took more time than
anticipated and DRI did not give importance to compliance with auditors'
recommendations;
-     DRI technical staff suffered from mobility during project
implementation. The new staff lack experience and need training in
project preparation, appraisal and supervision; and
-     DRI staff do not have adequate incentives to remain in the institution.



-25 -                         Part II
Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-COl
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disburegments
(US$ millions)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Appraisal estimate        5.0   12.5   22.0   32.5   43.0   50.5   52.2   53.0
Actual                    1.3    6.4    9.8   11.6   17.3   22.8   29.7   40.8
Actupl as % of
estimate                  26     51     44     35      40     45     56     77
Date of last disbursement: January 22, 1991
Amount cancelled:            US$12.2 million



- 26 -                            ENCIII
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLET10N REPOU                    P     1 of 3
COLOMI
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVEMNT PROJQCT PRASE 11
(LOAN 2174-CO)
A.  Proiet Cost
(US$0'O)
Appraisal                  Actual as t of
Cat-gory                         EstLmate A1   Actual       Appraisal Estimato
1.  Marketlng 8ubloans                 7,970         5,220                 65
2.  Civil Works
-  Rural Roads                   20,880         21,370                102
-  Water Supply                  16,550          4,390                 27
-  Electrical Energy              5,540          2,760                 S0
-  Health Services                2,930          1,770                 60
-  Education Services             7,390          4,350                 59
3. Acquisition of Equipment and
Vehicles
-  extension, Natural Resources  1,500           1,190                 79
-  Training                         420            290                 69
-  water Supply                   1,490          2,570                172
-  Health                         1,300          1,030                 79
-  Project Administration         1,000            230                 23
-  Education                      2,450            800                 33
4.  Equipment for Electrical
Energy Distribution                1,930         2,030                105
5.  operational Costs
-  Tochnical Assistance          17,870         12,910                 72
-  Training                       8,120          3,540                 44
- Control and Monitorlng
(Health)                         630            290                 46
6.  Training for Education Svu.        4,820             60                 -
7.  Consultant Sve, Administration   3,690           1,660                 45
8.  Uncoimmitted                       5,917            -                  -
Subtotal                     102L397        A66460                  Al
Other Local Costs
Production Credit                70,040         72,000                103
Financial Cost of Bank Loan          783           783                100
Subtotal                      70,823         72,783
Total 1r3a220                               139 243 pl
A/ InClUdes reallocations of the Bank loan during project implementation.



-27 -                    Part III
Table 4
Page 2 of 3
B. PROJECT FINANCING
(USS million)
Benefi-      Govt.               Local
Category                ciaries   (DRI) FFAP a/         Agencies  Bank   Total
I. APPRAISAL ESTIMATES
1. Marketing Subloans        0.82       2.67                   1.33    3.15    7.97
2. Civil Works
- rural roads                       10.98                           9.90   20.88
- water supply            1.27       3.43                           1.85    6.55
- elect. energy           1.51       2.53                  0.60    0.90    5.54
- health services         0.11       2.19                           0.63    2.93
- education services      0.69       3.30                           3.40    7.39
3. Acquisition of Equipment
and Vehicles
- extension nat. resour.                                            1.50    1.50
- training                                                          0.42    0.42
- water supply                                                      1.49    1.49
- health
- project administ.                                                 0.10    0.10
- education                                                         2.45    2.45
4. Equip. for Electrical
Energy Distribution                                                 1.93    1.93
5. Operational Costs
- Technical Assit.                   8.53                           9.34   17.87
- Training                                                4.63      3.49    8.12
- Control & Monitoring
*  (health)                                                          0.63    0.63
6. Training for Education               3.40                           1.42    4.82
7. Consultant Sve. Admin.               2.19                           0.50    2.69
8. Financial Cost of
Bank Loan                                                           0.78    0.78
9. Unallocated                _                                _       7.82    7.82
Subtotal               4.40       39.22                 6.56    53.00  103.18
other Local Costs
Production Credit             _                    45.40    24.64              70.04
Total                  4.40       39.22       45.40    31.20    53.00  173.22
a/ The Agricultural Financial Fund.



- 28 -                   Part LI
Table 4
Page 3 of 3
Benefi-    Govt.                Local
Cat-gory                ciaries   (DLI) FFAP A/        AgencLem  Bank   Total
II. ACTUAL
1. Marketing Subloans        0.73                          1.67        2.82     5.22
2. Civll Works
- rural roads                        9.63                          11.74    21.37
- water supply            0.84       1.32                           2.23     4.39
- elect, energy           0.55       0.82                           1.39     2.76
- health services         0.07       0.75                           0.95     1.77
- education servLces      0.36       1.96                           2.03     4.35
3. AcquiLitLon of Equip.
and Vehicles
- extension, nat. resour.                                           1.19     1.19
- training                                                          0.29     0.29
- water supply                                                      2.57     2.57
- health                                                            1.03     1.03
- project administering                                             0.23     0.23
- education                                                        0.80      0.80
4. Equip. for Electrical
Energy Distribution                                                2.03     2.03
5. Operatlonal Costs
- technical arst.                    6.04                           6.87    12.91
- training                           1.51                           2.03     3.54
- control & monitoring
(health)                          0.14                          0.15      0.29
6. Trainlng for Zducation               0.03                           0.03     0.06
7. Consultant 8ve. Adminiet.                                           1.66     1.66
8. Flnancial Cost of
Bank Loan                            -                            0- .28    0
Subtotal            2.55         22.20                1.67     40.82    67.24
Other Local Financing
Production Credlt                                  46.80   25.20               72.Q0
Total                2.55        22.20       46.80   26.87     40.82   139.24
8/ The Agricultural Financial Fund.



- 29 -                           Part tI
Table 5
*                                    PROJECT COM LETION REPORT                             8
COLOBIA
INTEGRATD RUMR^ DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PU&SE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
A. Direct Benefit.
Targets
Expected    Revised          Actual as %
at Project   Targets           of Revised
Key Indicators                        Completion    (1985)   Actual   Targets
A. Credit
-Production
Total Beneficiaries (No.)
First Project                    7,000       5,400     5,100        94
Second Projwct                  20,000      20,000    21,000       105
Total Lending (Col$ m)              6,420       6,420        n/a        -
Average/beneficiary (Col$)
-Marketina
Subloans Granted (No.)                 61           -         36       59
- Processing Plants
Subloans Granted (No.)                 55          28         13       46
B.  Technical Assistance
- Production
Adaptation Trials (No.)               465         900        953      106
Demonstration Plots (No.)           2,500       1,700      1,005       59
- Marketina
Associative Groups Assisted (No.)
First Project                       27          27        27       100
Second Project                      24          24        24       100
Producers who sell through
Assisted Cooperatives (No.)        4,200       4,500     8,750       194
Centros de Acopio (No.)                16          27        n/a        -



- 30 -                        Part ISI
Table 5
Page 2 of 8
Targets
Expected    Revised           Actual ao %
at Project   Targets           of Revised
Key Indicators                         Completion    (1985)   Actual   Targets
C. Natural Resources
- Reforestation
Plants (million)                    5.6         2.1        n/a        -
Area (ha)                        2,800        1,100        n/a        -
Microwatersheds (No.)               500           -        n/a        -
- ipheries
Fishponds (No.)                     300         710      1,600      225
D. Trainina
- Courses for Farri.ers (No.)
Induction                          650          650      1,543      237
Technical                        3,050        3,050      5,070      166
-  Courses for Staff (No.)
Technical                           168           -         91       54
-  Cooperatives Trained in
Marketina
Number                               22           -        159      723
Courses (No.)                       680                  1,659      244
E. Rural Infrastructure
- Roads
New Roads (km)                     270            -        723      268
Rehabilitation Roads (km)          270            -        424      157
- Water Su0DD1
Systems Completed (No.)             126         176        210      119
- Electrification
Houses Connected (No.)           4,800            -      6,423      134
- Health
New Health Center
Completed (No.)                    15           18         41      228
Remodeling of Health
Centers (No.)                      68          120        135      113
Remodeling of
Hospitals (No.)                     10          18         34      189
Training of Health
Promoters (No.)                   323          486     2,149       442



-31 -                         Part III
Table 5
Page 3 of 8
Targets
Expected    Revised           Actual as %
at Project   Targets            of Revised
Key Indicators                         Completion    (1985)   Actual   Targets
-  Education
School Rooms Completed (No.)        706          700     1,296       185
Sanitary Units Completed (No.)    653            550       750       136
School Furniture Granted (No.)        -        1,000     1,081       108



- 32 -                        Part III
Table 5
Page 4 of 8
B. Economic Imgact
Appraisal            Actual
Estimate     (at Final Development)
Economic Rate of Return (%)                 23                   39
Underlyina Assumptions
1. The foreign exchange premium was assumed to be 120% of the foreign exchange
rate on June 30, 1990. This is the official shadow price for the foreign
exchange rate. Other prices were taken on June 30, 1990 constant prices.
2. The maize price was derived from its import parity value because it more
accurately reflects its real price. The banana price was derived from its
export parity value because It more accurately reflects its real price.
3. The maize/bean cropped jointly was valued as bean price. This price as well
as rice and sesame prices were taken as those fixed by IDEMA a/ for the first
semester of 1990. Other commodity prices such as potatoes, cassava, and
vegetables were taken as its market price.
4. The economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for a 20-year project period
based on illustrative farm models used for the financial analysis.
5. The sensitivity analysis shows that if costs increase by 42%, the ERR is
equal to the economic opportunity cost of capital (i.e. 12%). Also, if
investments increase by 400%, the ERR reduces to 12%.
a/ The Agricultural Marketing Institute.



~ 33 -                       Part III
Table 5
Page 5 of 8
C. Financial Imoact
------------Illustrative Farm Models------------
1          2           3          4           5
Climate                           Hot      Temperate    Hot         Cold    Temperate
Area Suitable for Production
(hectare)                    1.5         1.5         5.4         5.4        13.5
Crops (ha)                         1.5         1.5        3.5         3.5          8.0
Annual Family Income
After Debt Service b/
-C---_____________---col$
At Aooraisal
(a)  Without Project           48,275      67,208       98,800      100,300   208,100
(b)  With Project c/          122,325    117,638       194,200      286,200   342,000
Relative Increase (%)              153          75           97           564
Year of Full Development             9           8            8           8         10
Financial Rate of Return          > 50        > 50        > 50          > 50      > 50
Actual
(a)  Without Project            57,598     31,815        50,665    280,569   110,030
(b)  With Project /          120,321      77,648       147,083    427,305   338,578
Relative Increase (%)              109         144           190         52        208
Year of Full Development             9           8             8          8         10
Financial Rate of Return          > 50        > 50          > 50       > 50         37
b/ In 1981 constant prices.
E/ At full development.



E01NONIC RATE OF RETURN
(CoMS mflltn)
r E A A S
ENEFITS                            1         2          3          4          5          6          7          a          9       lato 2o
FAIN MODEL   No. 1             2,992.23    5,526.16   7,683.71    9,S41.06   11,165.19   12,611.12   13,923.75   14,807.93  14807.93   14,807.93
FANM IMOEL    No. 2            2,334,I5   4,337.34    6,059.14    7,555.60   8,873.S5   10,053.25   11.129.S9   11,863.95   11.863.95   11,663.95
FAIN NMDEL    No. 3            1,S401,7    3,015.48    4,387.51    5,653.36    6,821.01    7,904.48   8,921.94    9,669.1?   9,669.1?   9,669.17
FAIN NODEL    No. 4            3.299.71    5,820.41    7,768.2s    9,317.15   10,S68.10   11,611.13   12,504.31   13,004.50   13,004.50   13,001.50
FAIN NODEL    No. S            1092,p2    2,064.77    2,929.50    3,693.83    4,383.54    5,008.87   s,s85.08    5,991.76    6,398.4    6,805.12
TOTAL BENEFtTS              11,2S8.76   20,764.16   28,828.11   35,761.02   41,611.35   47,188.85   52,064.67   SS,337.31   55,743.99   56,150.67
COSTS
FARIN MDEL   no. 1             3,067.12    3,24.62    4,341.52    S,213.10    S,922.66    6,516.02    7,026.86   7,316.3S    7,667.32    7,886.68
FARIM NODEL    No. 2           1,926.66    2,205.57    2,95S.81    3,SSS.29    4,045.43    4,46.80    4,812.43   s5016.4    S,248.64   S5394.10
FAIN NMOEL    No. 3            2,703.05    2,452.88    3,293.1S    3,967.43    4,S21.00    4,967.37    5,392.76   s,627.67   5,902.64   6,074.50
FAMI NEEL    No. 4             1,731.59    1,613.55    2,413.14    2,886.31   3,265.55    3,579.51   3,846.61    3,992.6    4,151.03    4,250.06
FAI MEL    No. S               1,056.S4   1,519.75    2,039.27    2,451.33   2,790.90    3,075.25    3,320.63   3,461.93    3,665.64    3,606.92
SUBTOTAL WSTS               10,484.96   11,236.37   15,042.89   18,073.46   20,s45.S4   22,614.95   24,399.31   25,414.95   26,635.47   27,412.26
PROJECT INESTNTS               1,552.52    5,917.39    3,523.48    4,667.79    4,365.69    s51.28   s71.28    S57.28      s51.28     s71.28
AIMINiSTRATIVE EXPENSES          155.25     S91.74     352.35     466.76     436.s5      57.13     S5.13      S5.13      s5.13       57.13
TOTAL WSTS               12,192.73   17,745.5O   18,918.72   23,208.03   2s,347.60   23,243.36   25,027.72   26,043.36   27,263.u8  28,040.67
TOTAL NET BEFIT IITN PRECT      (M.94)  3,018.66    9,909.40   12,552.99   16,463.53   23,94S.48   2,036.9s   29,293.96   28,480.12   28,109.99
TOTAL NET ENFIT WITUO)T PRJECT   4,881.92    8,177.96   10,401.24   11,902.75   12,916.17   13,599.64   14,061.69   14,061.69   14,061.69   14,061.69
ENCIDETAL IET EEFIT         (5815.86)  (5159.30)   (491.85)    650.23    3,547.36   10,34S5.84   12,975.26   15,232.26   14,418.41   14,048.61
PRESENT VALUE a 4,616.42                                                                                                             '06 
ERR a 39R
0
Ss
OD



ECONOnIC ANALYSIS
FARM NWEL No. 1 : 1.5 ha.
BENEFITS AND COSTS PER fARR 1/
(Cotl milion)
WITNOUT
BENEFITS                       PROJECT          1            2             3            4            5            6            7            8            9        10 TO 20
AGRNICLTURAL SALES               0.65         0.65         0.n2          0.79         0.85         0.92         0.99         1.05         1.12         1.12         1.12
LIVESTOCK SALES                  0.07         0.07         0.07          0.08         0.09         0.09         0.10         0.11         0.11         0.11         0.11
AUTO COESUtPTJO                  0.15         0.15          0.17         0.18         0.19         0.21         0.22         0.24         0.26         0.26         0.26
FAIER INCOE FRo OUTSIDE          0.20         0.20         0.22          0.25         0.27         0.29         0.31         0.33         0.3S         0.35         0.35
TOTAL BENEFITS PER FARNER        1.07         1.07          1.18         1.30         1.40         1.51         1.62         1.73         1.84         1.84         1.84 2V
NO. OF FARMERS                            2,800.00     4,690.00      5,966.00    6,827.00      7,408.00     7,800.00    8,065.00    8,065.00       8,065.00    8,065.00
TOTAL BENEFITS
WITN PROJECT                           2,992.23     5,526.16      7,683.71     9,541.06    11,165.19    12,611.12    13,923.75    14,807.93    14,807.93    14,807.93
WItHOUT PROJECT                        2,992.23     5,011.99      6,375.61     7,295.71     7,916.60    8,335.51      8,618.70    8,618.70    8,618.70    8,618.70   w
COSTS
INVESTM                                       0.34
DDITIOIAL WORKING CAPITAL        0.42         0.03         0.01          0.01         0.01         0.01         0.01         0.01         0.01         0.01         0.00
OPERATING EXPENSES               0.07         0.64         0.68          0.72         0.75         0.78         o.82         0.86         0.89         0.94         0.98
TOTAL COSTS PER FARNER           0.49         1.01         0.69          0.73         0.76         0.80         0.84         0.87         0.91         0.95         0.96
UMBER Of AENEFICIARIES                    2,800.00     4,690.00      5,966.00    6,827.00      7,408.00     7,800.00    8,065.00    8,065.00    8,065.00    8,065.00
TOTAL COSTS
WITH PROJECT                           3,067.12     3,244.62      4,341.52     5,213.10    5,922.66    6,516.02       7,026.86     7,316.35     7,667.32    7,886.68
WITHOUT PROJECT                        1,354.20     2,268.20      2,885.40    3,301.80    3,582.80       3,7M7.40    3,900.S0      3,900.50     3,900.50    3,900.50
1/  Ccmtant Economlc Prfee of June 1990
40
2J   ReudLul value at year 20 a ColS0.18 million                                                                                                                  * Sj c



- 36 -                        Part III
Table 5
Page 8 of 8
D. SA&t_die
Impact
Studies      Purpose am Defined at Appraisal              Status      of Study
1          Diagnostico de una linea base en el
Distrito DRI Sur Huila-1984
(Diagnosis of a base line in the
DRI District South-Huila - 1984)             Completed       Good
2          Eotablecimiento de una linea de
base para la evaluacion del
programa DRI-PAN del Distrito de
la Fase II. Tolima - 1984
(A base line establishment to
evaluate the DRI-PAN Program in
Tolima District Phase II - 1984)             Completed       Good
3          Evaluacion del impacto del programa
de desarrollo rural integrado en
e1 Distrito Tolima - 1989
(Impact evaluation of the DRI
Program in the Tolima District - 1989)       Completed       Good
4.         Evaluacion del impacto del programa
de desarrollo rural integrado en el
Distrito Sur Huila - 1990
(Impact evaluation of the DRI Program
in the District South - Huila - 1990)        Completed       Good
.Jj Copies of these studies are available in LAC Files.



- 37 -                        EtIII
Table 6
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
Status of Covenants
Loan
Agreement                                    Deadline for
Covenants             Subject                 Compliance              Status
3.01(a)      The Borrower shall take all       During          The project suffered
the necessary actions to         project         from lack of sufficient
allocate the executing           implement-      and timely counterpart
entities with the provision      ation.          funds between 1982 and
of funds, services and other                     1984 and durlng 1986 and
resources.                                       1988.
3.02         The Borrower shall hire           During          Although four field
consultants to monitor and       project         studies were carried out
evaluate project execution       implement-      to evaluate the impact
of the technical assistance,    ation.           of the project,
natural resources,                               consultants were not
marketing, agroindustry and                      hired to organize
training component.                              monitoring of project
execution.
3.04(b)      The Borrower shall maintain       During          Key indicators recorded
or cause to be maintained        project         by DRI have
records and procedures           implement-      discrepancies and
adequate to record and           ation.          correctlons.  Progress
monitor the progress of the                      reports showed
project (including its cost                      inconsistencies, mainly
and the benefits to be                           due to methodological
derived from it).                                differences (to read the
field coeffLcients)
between Caja Agraria,
DRI and the executing
entities.
3.06(c)      After 10 years from the date    Due by July    Not yet due.
of signing of the Loan           1992.
Agreement, the Borrower will
prepare an evaluation report
on the effects of the DRI
program in Phase II
municipalities.



- 38 -                          Part III
Table 6
Page 2 of 2
Loan
Agreement                                     Deadline for
Covenants              Subject                 Compliance               Status
3.06(d)(e)   The Borrower will prepare          February 28    Reports were always
semi-annual progress reports    and               received late.
to be furnished to the Bank       August 31 of
within two months from the        each year.
end of each such period.
4.02(e)(d)   The Borrower shall have for        Between June   DRI complied but the
each of the project               30 and          audited reports were
executing entities annual         September 30   received by the Bank
audit of financial                of each         with delays from two to
statements, project               year.           four months.  In the
accounts, and SOEs.                               case of SOEs the audited
reports were not
presented to the Bank
until late 1987 after
the Bank stopped SOB
disbursements in October
1986.
3.20(b)      The Ministry of Health             Not later       This covenant was never
(iii)(c)     should furnish to the Bank a    than               met; however, there is a
program to improve the            December 31,    free-standing Bank-
provision of primary health       1982.           assisted (PHN) project
care services, and carry out                      which started in
such proposals in Phase II                        November 1985 and which
municipalities.                                   pursues the same
objectives sought by
this covenant. The PHN
projects cover 9
departments which do not
include the 4
departments of Loan
2174-CO. However, if
successful, there will
be a second phase
project to cover the
rest of the country.



- 39 -                         Part III
Table 7a
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT PHASE II
(LOAN 2174-CO)
Use of Bank Resource.
A. Staff Inputs
EL_     Preoaration  ApDraisal  Netotiation  Sugervision  Other   Total
1980        8.8                                                          8.8
1981       11.6        122.8                                           134.4
1982                    27.2           8.8           0.1                36.1
1983                                                 8.8                 8.1
1984                                                15.1                15.1
1985                                                22.9                22.9
1986                                                12.6                12.6
1987                                                10.8                10.8
1988                                                23.0                23.0
1989                                                27.1                27.1
1990                                                11.8                11.8
Total   20.4        150.0           8.8         132.2               311.4



- 40 -                        Part III
Table 7b
Page 1 of 2
B. Bank Missions
Stage of Project       Month/  No. of    Days in  Specialization  Performing  Type
Cycle                  Year    Persons   field    Represented '  rating of   of pro-
status      blem 0
Through Appraisal
Identification Bank    2/80       1        5          a
Preparation Bank       4/80       1        2          b
Preparation follow-up  9/80       1        3          b
Aynraigl throuZh
Board Presentation
Appraisal            2-3/81    14         23      a,b(2),c,d,e,f,
h,i,J(4)
Appraisal follow-up    6/81      1         2          b
Appraisal follow-up    9/81      1        15          b
Board AgpDoval
Through Effectiveness
Supervision           11/82      6        11      a,b,f,i.j(2)             2       MF
Supervision            6/83      1        10          b
Supervision
Supervision 1          2/84      3         7      a,b,d                    2       MFO
Supervision 2          4/84      2        14        d,g                    2       MFO
Supervision 3          8/84      2         6        d (2)                  3       MFO
Supervision 4         10/84      1         8        c                      3       MFO
Supervision 5 11      12/84      1         1        k
Supervision 6          6/85      4        10      a,b,f,l                  3       MFO
1/  a - agronomiet; b - economist; c - agricultural economist; d - financial
analyst; e - civil engineer; f - power engineer; g - water engineer;
h - research assistance; i - road engineer; j - consultant; k - education
specialist; and 1 - training specialist.
2/  1 - problem free; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - serious problems.
3/  f - financial; m - management; o - other, such as delays in processing
withdrawal applications and submission of audit reports; poor project
progresd reporting.
Al Limited supervision mission.



- 41 -                         Part III
Table 7b
Page 2 of 2
B. Bank Missions (Continued)
Stage of Project        Month/  No. of    Days in  Specialization  Performing  Type
Cycle                   Year    Persons   field    Represented 5   rating of   of pro-
status 6    blem 7
Supervision 7          2/86       1         6        b
Supervision 8         11/86       1         5        b                       3       MFO
Supervision 9          3/87      3          5      a,b,e                     3       MFO
Supervision 10        12/87       1         2        b                       3       MFO
Supervision 11         4/88      3         15      a,b,d                     3       MFO
Supervision 12         8/88       1        10        d                       3       MFO
Supervision 13         1/89      3         14      a,b,e
Supervision 14         4/89       1         5        b
5/  a - agronomist; b - economist; c - agricultural economist; d - financial
analyst; e - civil engineer; f - power engineer; g - vater engineer;
h - research assistance; i - road engineer; j - consultant; k - education
specialist; and 1 - training specialist.
6/ 1 - problem free; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - serious problems.
7/ f - financial; m - management; o - other, such as delays in processing
withdrawal applications and submission of audit reports; poor project
progress reporting.



r   -         b ~~~~~~~~~~6   o           c                                               COLOMStA- t 9- 
ScmuMa-  GUAJ/RA /yk'   _ .>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S o u t h    
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ my                            e r i  c/  a I/o,n
WAr) b0\ \ \,,_ _/A  AAeV1,r7R",
a $ At \S5au=r -vk --\ |
-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h IV bw Dom jxp by OmAgs%:,.  "' AAC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oW  GUAA// - d*P    fV
14ws~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wr Om* and e <  Mdwus. *-1
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E                             N   E   Z'    U    E   L   A-<  +   
INTEGRATED ~ ~ ~ R RUALDVEOPET                        '    
-8~    POGA   ARES          ikt rr                                                               RA  Zi
PHASE I AREAS:       _s,           A MA ZONA S                 )~~~0
PHASE~~~~~~~~~~S                               ARAEAS  'A
1i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.1 lo-f I.....D P"
o   Cities doC and                                      NAwns
Elevstions ~ ~ ~  ~     .. abv  mtest lor 
~ - - Rivers /~ _ d4                           Y{3 7
e~   ~ a              KIOETR        MA AC     0       0          '~tbC
---  DepartmentDounaarles   |  ..  |  .   IICHAD_
-   nenainl onare        ILSt       70 10 0    



