Document of                      FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3325-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
SECOND INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 18, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1980                Average Calendar 1981
US$1  = Col$47.280                   US$1  = Col$54.491
Col$l = US$0.02115                   Col$1 = US$0.01836
Exchange Rate Effective May 4, 1982
US$1 = Col$62.21
Col$1 = US$0.01607
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SECOND INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS
CAJA           -  Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
CECORA         -  Central de Cooperativas de la Reforma Agraria Ltda.
(Union of Agrarian Reform Cooperatives Ltd.)
CIDA           -  Canadian International Development Agency
CONPES         -  Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social
(National Council for Economic and Social Policy)
DNP            -  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
DRI            -  Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integrado
(Integrated Rural Development Program)
FFAP           -  Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
(Agriculture Financing Fund)
FINANCIACOOP   -  Instituto de Financiamiento y Desarrollo Cooperativo
de Colombia
(Colombian Institute for Financing and Development of
Cooperatives)
FNCV           -  Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
(National Fund for Rural Roads)
HIMAT          -  Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Adecuacion de
Tierras
(Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement)
ICA            -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
IDB            -  Inter-American Development Bank
IDEMA          -  Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Agricultural Marketing Institute)
INCORA         -  Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
INDERENA       -  Instituto de los Recursos Naturales Renovables y del
Ambiente
(Institute for Renewable Resources and the Environment)
INS            -  Instituto Nacional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
MINSALUD       - Ministerio de Salud
(Ministry of Health)
OPSA           -  Oficina de Planeamiento del Sector Agropecuario del
Ministerio de Agricultura
(Agricultural Sector Planning Office in Ministry of
Agriculture)
PAN            -  Plan Nacional de Alimentacion y Nutricion
(National Food and Nutrition Plan)
PIN            -  Plan de Integracion Nacional
(National Integration Plan)
SENA           -  Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






COLOMBIA
SECOND INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Colombia
Amount:         US$53.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Terms:          Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace at 11.6%
interest per annum.
Project
Description:  The project is part of the second phase of a planned expansion
of the Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI) contemplated
in the Government's National Integration Plan (PIN). The
project aims at extending DRT to 55 municipalities within four
new departments, while intensifying its coverage and conso-
lidating its achievements in the 154 municipalities which were
covered under the first phase. The main objectives of the
project are: (a) to improve the standard of living of the
population in a number of rural areas selected for their high
concentration of small farmers and their production potential;
and (b) to contribute to the increased availability of basic
foodstuffs at reasonable prices for the two-thirds of the
population living in urban areas. Under the leadership and
coordination of the National Department of Planning (DNP),
through its Directorate General of the DRI and the National
Nutrition Program (PAN), more than a dozen executing agencies
would provide to selected communities supervised credit, pro-
duction and marketing support, physical infrastructure and
social services. The project would also assist to strengthen
the institutional framework for planning, supervising and
evaluating future public investment in rural areas where there
is large concentration of small farmers, excluding the predo-
minantly coffee growing regions. The project faces no unusual
risks, although two areas will need close monitoring: producer
price fluctuations and overall project management and coor-
dination. The satisfactory progress made under the first
project, together with the experience gained and the close
monitoring envisaged, make it reasonable to expect that the
project will be carried out as scheduled.
Relending
Terms and
Conditions:  Interest rates to subborrowers would be the same as those
charged by financial intermediaries for subloans made with
funds provided by the Agricultural Financial Fund (FFAP).
At present, interest rates are 21% nominal (23-24% effec-
tive). Maximum lending per individual farm family would be
Col$650,000 (about US$10,500), to be revised periodically.



Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Production, Marketing, Processing           45.0        20.0          65.0
Advisory Services and Training              24.9         3.3          28.2
Infrastructure (Roads, Water Supply,
Electrification)                          17.6        11.5         29.1
Social Services (Health, Education)         13.9         3.4          17.3
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation        2.2         0.2           2.4
Total Base Costs                103.6        38.4         142.0
Physical Contingencies                       1.5         0.8           2.3
Price Contingencies                         20.2         7.9          28.1
Total Project Cost              125.3        47.1         172.4
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                   -           0.8           0.8
Total                           125.3        47.9         173.2
Project Financing Plan:
Government                                  39.2         -            39.2
FFAP                                        45.4                      45.4
Entities Resources                          31.2         -            31.2
IBRD                                         5.1        47.9          53.0
Beneficiaries                                4.4         -             4.4
Total                           125.3        47.9         173.2
Estimated Disbursements:        FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
-----------(US$ million equivalent)-----------
Annual                      5.0    7.5    9.5   10.5   10.5    7.5    2.5
Cumulative                  5.0   12.5   22.0   32.5   43.0   50.5   53.0
Rate of Return:   27%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3661-CO, dated May 17, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
SECOND INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$53.0 million to help
finance the Second Integrated Rural Development Project. The Bank will
finance the front end fee of US$0.8 million. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY l/
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3556-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in September 1981. This section on the economy reflects
the major findings of this report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex 1.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past 30
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater emphasis on
foreign trade has allowed the external sector to grow with non-coffee
exports, particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and
the range of products sold abroad widening considerably.  The growing urban-
industrial-services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of sur-
plus labor in rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in
the cities has given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon,
together with the increased participation of women in the labor force, has
been instrumental in reducing poverty and improving income and distribution
over time. Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the
growing needs of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant
in international capital markets.
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the Highway Sector Project
(No. P-3241-CO, March 15, 1982).



-2 -
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-80
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to 3.5%
range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after 1965 as a
consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic and edu-
cational opportunities for women, rapid rural-urban migration, rising per
capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs contri-
buted to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently grow-
ing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of women
now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is likely to
continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in both absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sani-
tation control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate
fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s
to 63 years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 20 per thou-
sand in the early 1960s to 8 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant morta-
lity, one of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 65 per thousand in the
later 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s. School enroll-
ment ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels since 1960s, and
by the late 1970s, 91% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in
school. The poorest income groups have experienced the greatest increases in
electricity and water services in recent years and have benefitted more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and eco-
nomically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are still not available to many of the
rural and urban populations and unemployment and underemployment are rela-
tively high. The coverage of health care and water supply requires conti-
nuous improvement and adequate housing is not available to a substantial pro-
portion of the population. Rapid migration to the large and medium-sized
cities has created urban development problems, with attendant social diffi-
culties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita income over
the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still required to improve and
extend the benefits of development to the poorest income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past thirty years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished and the country was
confronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that
economic activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by
developments in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint,
during 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy,



expanding and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increas-
ingly tapping the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, includ-
ing frequent exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export
incentives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs some-
what and freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency
and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets.
These measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange con-
straint and stimulating growth and employment. However, by mid-1970s the
economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the
world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic budget
deficits.
Recent Economic Development
7.         In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses
prevailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully
effective, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising
from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from
coffee exports, together with some official surrender of foreign exchange
from illegal exports, caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes
rose rapidly and stimulated aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Econo-
mic growth also accelerated and unemployment fell substantially, both in
rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated surpluses averaging about 7% of GDP
during the 1976-79 period, and by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has
had a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy,
largely as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.
Public investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to
economic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was
slowed and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to mode-
rate the growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion
and diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high
reserve requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in
real terms, the financing available to the private sector via the official
capital market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 but were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the
increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of mone-
tary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabiliza-
tion program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies -- and on the lending therefrom -- were freed from controls. To
offset the inflationary effects of these measures the authorities further
liberalized import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission
of new short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective



-  4  -
credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured
from private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the
surveillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the
above measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to
4% in 1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures con-
tinued.
10.       In 1981, manufacturing activity has remained sluggish, hemmed in by
the slow growth in aggregate consumer demand, and limited by power shortages
during most of the year. Coffee exports have fallen as a result of reduced
world demand and declining prices while non-coffee export growth has weak-
ened. On a more positive note, construction activity, which had fallen
sharply in 1979-80, began to recuperate toward the end of the year. In res-
ponse to favorable price incentives, petroleum production is estimated to
have increased by over 5% in 1981. Agricultural output has registered some
gains despite decreases in the area planted resulting from a prolonged
drought. Both public and private investment have expanded rapidly. Real GDP
growth is estimated to have reached 3-4% in 1981. Inflation continued to be
a problem in 1981, however, with consumer prices increasing by about 27% for
the year. Despite world coffee prices at relatively low levels for most of
the year, Colombia's balance of payments continued to remain strong, with
net official reserves maintained at about one year of imports of goods and
non-factor services.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of
increased productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment,
improved distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will
require a major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inade-
quate economic and social infrastructure and insufficient demand. Infras-
tructure needs are most pressing in the energy, transportation, and agricul-
ture sector.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently formulated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of
the PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale
and commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contri-
buting to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to
be encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency



- 5 -
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers
in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for
special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) programs, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing atten-
tion from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required
deepening of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning
and executing sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters rela-
ted to financing the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out
the PIN strategy, inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or
insufficient domestic resource mobilization would be likely to result in sub-
stantial resource misallocation and to delay execution of the strategy. The
two most important sectors where additional work is urgently required are
energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1985 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 20% of total merchandise exports. In
the absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increas-
ing petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policy making have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the sector is still weak. A study about to be completed by
the National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for
improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing
decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals
for regulating consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to
producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude
have been raised to levels which provide adequate production incentives, and
the retail prices of petroleum products have been increased substantially in
recent years, which on the whole reflect international levels.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the develop-
ment of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The State
Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the recently
approved Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.



-6-
Investment and its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development stra-
tegy outlined in the PIN. Over the 1981-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 15% p.a. in real terms. The energy and trans-
portation sectors are expected to account for the bulk (59.5%) of this
investment; however, sizeable real increases in investment are also expected
in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture and industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 8.4% of GDP during the 1981-85 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,603 billion (about US$20.5 billion).  Private
investment will have to increase also during this period to provide the goods
and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms. Since this effort is
expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the coun-
try's resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a shift
in the balance of payments from a small current account deficit of US$195
million registered in 1980 to a current account deficit projected to average
US$1,865 million, over the 1981-85 period. By the end of this period, net
official international reserves would have fallen to a level slightly over
four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a level which is
adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's creditworthiness.
This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP of 5.5%
during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit should improve
as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal) and a level-
ing-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to about 2% of
GDP in 1987 and turn into a surplus of less than 1% by 1990. To achieve real
GDP growth of 5.5% per annum, gross domestic investment will have to expand
to about 25% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and 20% in recent years,
and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 22% of GDP.



19.        Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve dradown) are
projected to total US$10.3 billion in current prices for the 1981-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$2,057 million. About 26% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to cover
current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are expected
to provide 33% of these requirements, 50% is expected to come from foreign
suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from private
foreign investment. At the end of 1980, Colombia's public and publicly gua-
ranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$4.3 billion,
equivalent to 13% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was
25%. Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline
by bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 29% in
1983, before falling to about 25% in 1986. The debt service ratio at the end
of 1980 was 10% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 20% in
1988 and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt ser-
vice is expected to rise to about 26% in 1985 from about 25% in 1980. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1981-1990 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.        The proposed loan, the 97th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,545.5 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1982, US$2,736.1mil-
lion: IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 59 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-
77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$215 million in
1980 and US$249 million in 1981. The gradually improving performance of
social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the
gradual containment of inflationary pressures, which should allow relaxation
of fiscal restraint, and increased Bank lending for infrastructure projects,
all point to higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made
investments and underwriting commitments of US$79.1 million in 26 enterprises
and, as of March 31, 1982, it held US$22.9 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of
March 31, 1982 and a brief report on the status of the 36 ongoing projects.
21.        During the past 16 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become more
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, since then, from a total of
67 loans only 21 have been made to these sectors. In addition, all three
loans for education, 12 of the 14 loans for industry, 13 of the 15 agricul-
tural loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development and all
nine loans for water supply and sewerage, were made after 1966. The diversi-
fication was indeed a desirable aim as it provided closer contact with Colom-
bia's development problems. The experience gained has served to identify
areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to ena-
ble lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have
a meaningful impact.



-8  -
22.        Bank lending to Colombia in FY81 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for rural roads, irriga-
tion rehabilitation and village electrification totalling US$550 million
equivalent. In addition to the loan presented in this report, the FY82 pro-
gram includes recently approved loans for highways, railways and watershed
management. Work is also under way on projects for rural education, petro-
leum development, mining, oil refining, electric power, agricultural research
and extension and marketing, fertilizers, water supply and sewerage, ports
and small-scale industry for possible consideration by the Executive Direc-
tors during the next two years.
23.        The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraph 12 through 15).  To
help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist in the
development of coal mines which hold potential to help Colombia meet part of
its energy requirements and in diversifying exports.  In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply of domestic petroleum, the Bank
plans to finance fulrther petroleum projects as a complement to investments of
private firms and, for the first time, become involved in projects which pro-
mote the efficient processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy
sector would also assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobiliz-
ing external finance as most of the projects would require substantial co-
financing.  Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to sup-
port the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and
employment, and to increase and diversify exports.  Closely related to these
objectives would be Bank lending for infrastructure, including the Highway
Sector Project, presented to the Board earlier this year, that would facili-
tate the increasing inter-regional flow of goods and services. A port pro-
ject under preparation is aimed at enabling Colombia to handle larger volumes
of non-traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector
of its economy relies for expansion. To permit efficient movement between
inland points and the ports of bulk cargo, particularly coal and agricultural
exports, a Seventh Railway Project to reshape and modernize railway infra-
structure was recently approved by the Board. Finally, several loans are
being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50%
of the Colombian population, including the project under consideration today,
which is oriented to effecting permanent improvements in the production and
consuimption capacity of a large number of rural dwellers. Proposed lending
for rural electrification, further rural development, agricultural credit,
water supply and sewerage, irrigation and rural education projects is princi-
pally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
-L. While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased
since then to approximately 63% for the 1975-80 period and is expected to de-
cline further to about 30% of external capital requirements during 1981-86.
Like the Bank, 1DB has given increased emphasis to projects with a poverty
orientation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and rural
development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural elec-
trification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, urban development and small farm development, but is



-  9  -
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional fi-
nancing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND THE SMALL FARM PRODUCER
Characteristics
25.       Agriculture is a key sector of the Colombian economy from several
points of view. It is important in terms of its participation in GDP (25%)
and employment (27%) and its contribution to exports (about two-thirds of
merchandise exports in 1980). Colombia is self-sufficient in most basic
foodstuffs, the major exception being wheat. Climatic conditions are
unstable in the highlands, with periods of drought alternating with periods
of excessive rainfall. Consequently, agricultural production is subject to
wide swings. The record of long-term growth in agriculture, however, is good
(4.7% per annum in the 1970s), driven especially by increased production of
commercial export crops (rice, coffee, bananas, sugar, tobacco and flowers)
which have benefitted from intensive research programs.
26.       In 1980, the gross value of production amounted to about Col$212
billion (US$4.5 billion in constant prices), of which about one-half was pro-
vided by crops, 36% by livestock, and the remainder by forestry, fishing and
hunting.  Within the crop subsector, seven basic staples -- rice, cassava,
plantains, potatoes, maize, sugarcane for panela (non-centrifugal sugar) and
beans -- account for about 50% of the value of production with coffee's share
amounting on average for another 30%.
27.       Colombia's land resources total 114 million hectares, of which an
estimated 17 million are in pasture and nearly 50 million under forest. Of
the remainder, just over a million hectares are under coffee and nearly four
million are in other crops. Seventy percent of the farms and 75% of the land
is farmed directly or indirectly by its owner, the remainder being farmed
wholly or in part by sharecroppers, renters and squatters.
Institutional Framework and Credit
28.       The formulation and execution of agricultural policy and public
sector programs involve a sizeable number of institutions -- at latest count,
18 in all. The control center of the sector is the Ministry of Agriculture
and within it, the Agricultural Sector Planning Office (OPSA), which has the
responsibility for planning and coordinat 4ng sector activities. OPSA main-
tains a close relationship with the agriculture and budget divisions of the
National Planning Department (DNP), since they have to approve the sector's
development plan and investment program. The Colombian Agricultural Insti-
tute (ICA) is responsible for agricultural research and extension and collab-
orates with other agencies, particularly credit institutions. The Agricultu-
ral Marketing Institute (IDEMA) promotes the rational marketing of crops and
intervenes where necessary, by procuring at home and abroad agricultural
commodities, to influence prices to the consumer and the producer. Other key
agricultural institutions include: the Agrarian Reform Institute (INCORA),
which carries out programs of land distribution and farm support; the Natural
Resources Institute (INDERENA), which is mainly responsible for conserving



- 10 -
virgin land, river basins and national forests; and the Colombian Institute
for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement (HIMAT), which is in charge
of irrigation works and associated land improvements in addition to hydrology
and meteorology.
29.       Two principal sources, Caja Agraria (CAJA) and the Fondo Financiero
Agropecuario (FFAP), account for the vast majority of the agricultural cre-
dit in Colombia. FFAP is a rediscount window of the Bank of the Republic
(BOR), from which funds are on-lent by banking institutions to commercial
farmers and in the future also to small farmers under this project. FFAP's
resources are obtained principally from low yielding bonds which banking in-
stitutions are required to hold in lieu of reserves. While FFAP provides
more than half of the resources on-lent to agriculture, in the past it sup-
plied funds to less than 3% of the farms -- principally medium- and large-
scale enterprises. CAJA, with about 850 branches spread throughout the coun-
try, is the principal source of credit to the small farm sector.  CAJA, a
mixed public-private bank (89% Government owned), lends funds raised princi-
pally from savings deposits and FFAP rediscounts.  In addition, there are
other sources of agricultural credit such as the Banco Ganadero which finan-
ces principally livestock; the Banco Cafetero which finances coffee and crop
diversification; the Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agropecuario y Expor-
taciones which lends principally for export agriculture and agro-processing;
and INCORA which, through banking institutions, makes available credit to
agrarian reform beneficiaries.
30.       Agricultural credit in Colombia is generally linked to technical
assistance -- without an approved plan by an authorized extension agent, a
farmer is denied credit from the major channels. Interest rates are lower
for agriculture than for other productive sectors. For FFAP resources nomi-
nal interest rates are currently on average 21%, though effective rates are
23-24% as a result of additional charges and the collection of interest quar-
terly in advance. CAJA's rates are slightly higher, except for farmers with
gross assets of less than Col$100,000 (US$1,600).  It is the overall policy
of the Government to level effective interest rates for agricultural credit
with inflation.
The Small Farm Producer
31.        Small farm producers (defined as those farming less than 20 ha)
play a very important role in agricultural production, employment, national
food supply and relative price stability. In 1980, they accounted for 46% of
total agricultural output and 55% of rural employment and they also supplied
65% of the national staples which, given the weight of foodstuffs in the cost
of living index (50%), impact considerably upon the domestic price level.
The 1970-71 agricultural census estimated their number at 980,000, who farmed
3.8 million ha or 12% of Colombia's cultivated land. Of these, 73% had farms
of less than 10 ha and were within the lower income group category.
32.       For a variety of reasons, but mainly antiquated farming methods,
insufficient credit, extension service and other inputs, small farm produ-
cers' output has not kept pace with the rise in internal demand. The result-
ing price increases have improved their terms of trade; this, together with
raising supplemental family income as a result of the higher wages prompted
by the declining rural labor surplus, which has emigrated to the cities, has
improved their consumption capacity.  By and large, however, they have con-



- 11 -
tinued to deploy their resources under rudimentary conditions. Their stan-
dard of living, although improved, still is considerably below acceptable
levels. Adult and child mortality in the rural sector is estimated to be
twice as high as in urban areas, mainly because of water-borne infections and
unhygienic conditions.  The ratio of physicians to rural population is 1 to
8,000 compared with the national average of I to 1,800.  The rural education
system exhibits several problems, including curricular weaknesses, low aca-
demic achievement, substantial wastage and inefficiencies in its function-
ing. Moreover, only 40% of rural schools are offering all five primary
grades, against 72% in urban schools. The deficient rural roads network, the
broken topography of the country and the dispersion of the rural population
have prevented more intensive intra- and inter-regional trade. Today, only
60% of the rural communities are linked by all weather roads and, with the
exception of communities in the coffee producing areas, they are poorly elec-
trified.  Potable water supply and waste disposal systems are only available
to 40% and 12%, respectively, of the rural population.
Government Strategy
33.       Successive administrations have devoted substantial resources to
assisting small farmers to improve their output, productivity and living
standards. Part of this effort has also been directed at helping the rural
poor. During the late 60s and early 70s, Government actions were concentrat-
ed upon increasing the supply of credit and irrigation, and upon land re-
form. To date, INCORA has transferred about 3.5 million ha to landless rural
families but, lacking public support, its activities have diminished. Fol-
lowing considerable debate, in 1973 the legislature instructed the Government
to initiate programs that would bring about sustained improvements among the
small farm producers, since they are considered essential to the country's
social and economic development.
34.       In early 1975, the National Council for Economic and Social Policy
(CONPES) approved an ambitious and wide-ranging National Food and Nutrition
Program aimed at increasing the availability of low-cost foodstuffs to the
poorest 50% of Colombia's population, raising its income and improving its
general welfare. This was to be achieved through multisectoral and coordi-
nated actions in production, marketing, processing, subsidized food distribu-
tion and the provision of infrastructure and social services. The 1975-78
National Plan for Social and Economic Development incorporated two multisec-
toral programs, the National Food and Nutrition Program (PAN) and the Inte-
grated Rural Development Program (DRI) to carry out the legislature's man-
date.
35.       PAN aims at breaking the recurrent cycle of malnutrition and pover-
ty among the poorest 30% of the population. Its target population are preg-
nant women, lactating mothers and pre-school children. PAN now covers seven
Departments and the Special District of Bogota and provides an integrated
package that includes community health services, potable water supply and
sanitation facilities, nutrition education, distribution of subsidized pro-
cessed food and promotion of family gardens.  (A Bank loan, 1487-CO, is sup-
porting PAN.) DRI, on the other hand, is essentially production-oriented
and, while substantial amounts are spent on infrastructure and social ser-
vices, it aims mainly at developing small-scale farms of less than 20 ha to
the fullest extent possible in order to provide the farm families with sub-
stantially higher incomes from self-sustaining operations and to increase
national food production.



-  12  -
36.       Phase I of DRI started in July 1976 after a one-year experimental
period. A total of 12 national public institutions are participating, as
well as various regional entities (paragraphs 47 through 58). This first
phase covers selected areas in eight Departments (Map IBRD 15802) at a cost
of approximately US$273 million (5-year period). The Bank with US$52 million
(Loan 1352-CO), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) with US$64 million,
and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) with US$14 million
are participating in the financing of DRI, Phase I.
37.       The Government continues to give emphasis to rural development with
the aim of assuring adequate food supplies, bringing about further gains in
nutrition and welfare of the rural population and diversifying/expanding
exports. To achieve this objective, it proposes to strengthen technology and
infrastructure through credit, research, extension, rural roads, land deve-
lopment (mainly watershed management, irrigation and drainage), storage,
agroindustries, marketing facilities and electric power. Closely related are
health, education and water supply and sewerage to reduce the harsh condi-
tions of rural life and, in this way, retain an increased number of people in
the countryside. In support of this strategy, several programs are under
execution and several others are about to begin. The proposed one, which
together with a recently approved IDB project forms DRI's second stage, is
part of this program.
Bank Role in the Sector
38.       Bank lending for agriculture has focussed principally on supervised
agricultural credit and support for irrigation/drainage and colonization pro-
jects which have involved some form of land distribution. Since 1966, the
Bank has made 13 loans totalling US$296.6 million equivalent to Colombia for
agriculture. Five have been for agricultural credit, two for colonization,
four for irrigation/drainage, one to support the first stage of DRI and one
for watershed management. Bank efforts in agriculture have aimed at increas-
ing agricultural production and at strengthening public sector institutions
concerned with agriculture. Most of the projects have focussed on increasing
productivity, incomes and welfare of small farmers. The proposed project,
together with the recently approved rural roads (Loan 1966-CO), irrigation
rehabilitation (Loan 1996-CO) and village electrification (Loan 1999-CO)
projects, the proposed basic rural education project and the rural projects
being assisted by other external lenders, would support further these
objectives.
The First Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1352-CO)
and the Lessons Learned
39.       Considering the difficulties which are normally encountered in set-
ting up and coordinating such a vast and complex program, the First
Integrated Rural Development Project (DRI I) can be regarded as very success-
ful. Several indicators testify to this. As of March 31, 1982, more than
80% of project funds had been committed and disbursements of the Bank loan
totalled 39.6 million, or 76% of the total amount. A total of more than
30,000 smallholders were receiving credit and technical assistance from the
project (the 5-year target was 40,000) and an estimated additional 74,000
families were benefiting from the social infrastructure and services of the
project, bringing the total number of beneficiaries to about 600,000.



-  13  -
40.       According to data available, which are not comprehensive, the pro-
gram definitely has had a major impact on agricultural production and produc-
tivity of participating farmers.  Field records of the Colombian Agricultural
Institute (ICA) and a comprehensive survey carried out in two of the Bank
project areas in 1979, show that between 1975 and 1978, in the Department of
Antioquia yields of major crops on farms of direct project beneficiaries have
increased by 33% to 60%, and in the Department of Narino, by 50% on average
between 1976 and 1980. The area under cultivation and the cropping intensity
have also risen and, therefore, total production is estimated to have in-
creased significantly. According to the Antioquia survey, direct beneficia-
ries were able to obtain annual incomes of about US$460 per capita in 1978
from their farm activities, whereas farmers in the control group, not parti-
cipating in the DRI program, were obtaining only about half that income.
Additional evaluation studies carried out in the Tenza Valley and Boyaca
Department, areas financed by IDB, produced similar results.
41.       The success of the project, however, cannot be measured only by
comparing quantitative targets and results. The comparison by itself does
not reflect the quality of services provided nor the advances made in insti-
tutional effectiveness and the degree of the authorities' commitment to the
program. Except for the marketing, health and forestry components, the core
of the project (about 80% of the project cost), consisting of agricultural
production and infrastructure, has been highly successful. The project has
also received broad political support; the local funds have been made avail-
able to the project ahead of schedule.  Most striking has been the effective
coordination of activities that has prevailed at the local level. Planning
and related investment tailored to the beneficiaries' specific need were car-
ried out while maintaining a cohesive and phased approach to meeting each
village's requirements.  The unusual role of DNP as the overall directing and
coordinating agency appears to have been one of the keys to the success, the
other being intensive participation by regional/local authorities. DNP has
an important say in the investment program of, and on the Government resour-
ces transferred to each of the participating agencies.  These, therefore,
have been anxious to fulfill their obligations. The involvement of region-
al/local authorities has given to the program a sense of belonging and a high
degree of realism.
42.       The problems encountered in the marketing, forestry and health com-
ponents can be attributed basically to institutional deficiencies. The Union
of Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, Ltd., (CECORA), which has the responsibility
for marketing, did not live up to expectations. Frequent changes in its
management, high turnover of experienced staff and insufficient resources
hampered its operations.  The same can be said about the Institute for Renew-
able Natural Resources and the Environment (INDERENA) that is in charge of
the forestry component. With respect to health, the problem has been diffe-
rent; there was lack of agreement at the highest level concerning policies
for the delivery of health services in rural areas. In the preparation of
the proposed project, therefore, special attention has been given to correct-
ing these deficiencies.  In the case of marketing, the number of participat-
ing entities has been increased to buttress the marketing effort and diversi-
fy markets. As part of the Upper Magdalena Pilot Watershed Management Pro-
ject (Loan 2069-CO) INDERENA is being strengthened; thus, it should be able
to discharge its responsibility for forestry under the proposed project
effectively.  Lastly, Government concensus has been reached with respect to



-  14  -
rural health systems. Adequate staffing and funding of health facilities,
together with appropriate monitoring of programs, should ensure satisfactory
performance under this component.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
43.       The project was prepared by DNP, with the assistance of participa-
ting agencies and several Bank missions. It was appraised in February 1981.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from March 4-9 and April 19-23,
1982, with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Guillermo Anzola, Director
General PAN/DRI, National Planning Department, and Dra. Leonor Montoya,
Director of Public Credit, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3661 of May 17, 1982) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.
44.       The project would extend the National DRI Program to new areas
(Phase II) and consolidate the achievements in the previous areas (Phase I).
Its objective would be to continue raising the living standards of the rural
population by increasing farm productivity, output and incomes and by improv-
ing social services and facilities of communities eligible to participate un-
der the Program. An additional objective of the project would be to contri-
bute to increased food production.  By reducing disparities between rural and
urban amenities while facilitating the integration of the rural population
into the market economy, the project would support the Government's objective
of retaining people in the countryside. The project would provide supervised
credit to help promote farm investments and thereby raise farm productivity
and production. Rural roads would be built in areas with high agricultural
potential, while investments in education, health, water supply and electri-
city would be made in rural communities, particularly in those showing great-
est commitment to farm development.
Project Areas
45.       The project would be located in the central and southern regions of
the country (Map IBRD 15802). It would embrace 55 municipalities in the
Departments of Huila, Tolima, Meta and Caldas (Phase II areas) and the 154
municipalities of the first project (Phase I areas). A total of 35,000 farms
would be developed. IDB, through its second phase project, would cover the
northern part of the country with 71 municipalities in the Departments of
Atlantico, Bolivar, Magdalena and North Santander, developing 21,000 farms.
Overall, Phase I and II would benefit directly over 100,000 small farmers
(less than 20 ha).
46.       The areas for Phase II were selected following the methodology used
for Phase I.  The factors considered were:  (a) the number of small farmers
present in the area and their socio-economic characteristics; (b) the predo-
minance of coffee growing in the area; (c) soil conditions and potential
yields; (d) level of infrastructure and social services available; credit and
extension service being provided to the individual farmers; and the number of
participating agencies already working in the communities.  The districts and
municipalities were then ranked by weighing each of these factors and those
with the highest potential for development were included under the proposed
project.






-  16  -
to lend to small and large commercial farmers.  This interest rate, at the
present time, is an effective 23-24% (paragraphs 29 and 30). Since FFAP
rates are revised periodically by the National Monetary Board to take account
of increases in the cost of living index, it is expected that interest rates
will be zero positive in real terms. FFAP would provide the above-mentioned
resources to CAJA on the same basis as it does to other financial intermedia-
ries. FINANCIACOOP's processing and marketing credits would be made availa-
ble at interest rates essentially the same as CAJA's.
52.       The signing of subsidiary agreements between the Government, CAJA
and FINANCIACOOP, stating their respective obligations in terms of lending
and operating policies and procedures would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would review
semi-annually with FINANCIACOOP its credit terms and conditions and obtain
Bank concurrence prior to any modifications. Furthermore, no changes would
be made in CAJA's lending operations which would adversely affect the project
(Section 3.14 and 5.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b) Production and Marketing Support (Phase I and II)
53.       The project would require the hiring of additional staff for the
Directorate General of the DRI and PAN Program at headquarters as well as in
the regional offices to help plan and coordinate effectively the activities.
It would also provide for additional staff and increased service capabilities
in the following entities:
(a)  ICA                       - (Crop and livestock adaptation
(and demonstration trials; pre-
(paration and supervision of
(farm plans; technical assis-
(tance.
(b)  INDERENA                  - (Advice on tree planting and
(soil conservation including
(protection of water sources
(and construction and stocking
(of fish ponds.
(c)  CECORA                    - (Market intelligence unit.
(d)  FINANCIACOOP              - (Technical assistance for
(marketing and processing.
(e)  Servicio Nacional de    - (Staff training; promotion
Aprendizaje               (for the project; farmers
(SENA)                (and marketing groups training.
INCORA and SDAs would provide technical assistance when needed by delegation
from ICA.
(c) Infrastructure (Phase II)
54.       The Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (FNCV) would supervise the
construction of about 270 km of new rural roads and the improvement of about
270 km of existing rural roads throughout the project area.



-  17  -
55.       The Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica (ICEL) would super-
vise the work of its "Electrificadoras" (Departmental Power Companies) to
provide electricity to about 4,800 households.
(d) Rural Basic Education (Phase II)
56.       Under the auspices of its Rural Basic Education Program the
Ministry of Education would upgrade the quality and efficiency of the primary
school program in about 80 school districts ("nucleos") in the Departments of
Huila and Tolima. The entering into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Fund of the Ministry of Education and the Regional
Education Funds would be a condition of disbursement for expenditures against
this component (Section 3.01(c) and Schedule 1, paragraph 4(iii) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
(e) Social Services (Phase II)
57.       The Instituto Nacional de Salud (INS) would coordinate works for
drinking water to benefit about 52,000 people living in 126 rural communi-
ties.
58.       The Ministry of Health would have overall responsibility for estab-
lishing or repairing about 82 primary health care units with the aim of a-
chieving an 80% population coverage in the selected municipalities; it would
also appoint supervisory teams to improve quality of service in Bank-financed
Phase II areas.
(f) Monitoring and Evaluation
59.       The monitoring and evaluation unit within the Directorate General
of the DNP/PAN-DRI Program would be strengthened by hiring additional staff,
and by providing funds to hire consultants.
Project Costs and Financing
60.       Total project costs are estimated at US$172.4 million equi-
valent,2/ including incremental seasonal credit and incremental working ca-
pital for produce marketing. The foreign exchange cost is estimated at
US$47.9 million equivalent, or 28% of the total.
61.       A Bank loan of US$53.0 million is proposed to finance all foreign
exchange costs and US$5.1 million or 4% of the local costs (the proposed loan
would finance 30% of the total cost of the project). Local currency financ-
ing is recommended because of the key importance the project would have with-
in the overall Government attempt to improve the welfare of the poorer sec-
tions of the rural population and the relatively low foreign exchange content
which is characteristic of rural development projects. The cost sharing
which is being proposed is considered necessary to give the Bank a meaningful
role in the project, particularly in view of the fact that IDB, with a loan
of US$64.6 million for its DRI II project, will be financing 54% of project
costs. Under the DRI I project (Loan 1352-CO) the Bank financed a much high-
er portion of local currency expenditures (US$24.4 million or 24% of local
costs) and a higher percentage of total costs (40%).
2/   Excluding the Front End Fee on the Bank loan.



- 18 -
62.       Project beneficiaries would finance an estimated cash cost of
US$4.4 million, or 3% of total project cost. In addition, they would contri-
bute US$23.0 million in labor (not included in total project costs). Under
the credit component, CAJA would finance 35% of total subloan amounts out of
its own resources and would rediscount the remaining 65% from FFAP; FINANCIA-
COOP would finance at least 12% of marketing and processing credit out of its
own resources, with the remainder to be financed by the Government from the
National Budget. SENA, the agency in charge of training and community orga-
nization, would contribute 49% of the costs of the training component, and
ICEL and the "Electrificadoras" would finance about 10% of the cost of elec-
trification. All remaining funds would come from the National Budget.
Project Organization
63.       DNP, through its Directorate General of the DRI and PAN Programs,
would have overall responsibility for management of the project, including
planning, budgeting, coordination, administration, control, reporting, moni-
toring and evaluation. In addition, the DRI/PAN Directorate would take over
from CAJA the responsibility for reviewing procurement documentation and for
transmitting reimbursement applications from the participating entities,
through the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, to the Bank.
64.       Last year DNP merged the DRI and PAN Programs under the aegis of
one Directorate. The Government is aware that performance of both programs
will need close monitoring in view of forthcoming expansion in the coverage
of each program, and will thus undertake a detailed review of DRI's 1982 phy-
sical and financial targets and actual achievements.  The resulting report
would be furnished to the Bank by May 31, 1983 and any necessary measures to
strengthen management functions would be taken promptly (Section 3.15 (a) and
(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally, to facilitate project execution
and continued monitoring of the program, DNP would carry out a socio-economic
baseline survey by February 28, 1983 to be repeated 4 years thereafter, as
well as buttress its monitoring and evaluation unit, and prior to disburse-
ments for each of the respective components, it would enter into subsidiary
project agreements with each of the participating agencies (Section 3.06,
3.01(c) and Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       Execution of the various components of the DRI program would be the
responsibility of more than a dozen national and several regional (departmen-
tal) agencies, following their normal operating procedures. To ensure im-
proved performance by project entities that did not live up to expectations
under Phase I (paragraph 42), specific commitments have been obtained from
INS and the Ministry of Health pertaining to their roles under the project
(Section 3.20 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       As under Phase I, planning and coordination of program execution
would be accomplished through a series of committees at different levels,
which include staff from the executing agencies and representatives of the
communities. Local involvement is expected to continue adding realism to the
DRI Program as well as to foster rapid project execution.
Procurement and Disbursement 3/
67.       Contracts for the construction and upgrading of rural roads, water
supply systems, electrical networks and health facilities totaling US$35.0
3/ Figures include contingencies.



-  19  -
million would be awarded according to local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, in which foreign bidders would have opportunity to
participate. Most of the works are expected to be small and dispersed and,
therefore, are unlikely to attract interest from firms not already working in
C^1c!bia r,4 fo- t1-hnt matter, in the region. Four-wheel drive vehicles and
motorcycles (US$3.1 million), ambulances (US$520,000), pipes and pumping
equipment for the water supply component (US$2.9 million) and electrical
distribution equipment (US$3.8 million) totalling US$10.3 million would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in
bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty whichever is the lowest.
68.       Diversified field training, communications and medical equipment,
and school furniture and teaching materials totalling US$7.1 million would be
procured as needed over five years under competitive local procedures satis-
factory to the Bank. Farm inputs and equipment would be purchased by indivi-
dual farmers through normal commercial channels. A wide range of interna-
tional and local manufacturers are represented in Colombia and competition is
satisfactory, servicing and spare parts are available. Consulting services
would include about 90 man-months totalling US$570,000, at an average gross
cost of US$4,800 per month. Though foreign consultants would not be exclud-
ed, it is expected that the expertise for required services (mostly market-
ing, processing and evaluation) would be hired from within Colombia.
69.       Disbursements would be made for 100% of consultant's services, 100%
of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for power distribution
equipment, field vehicles, equipment and office and school furniture and
materials, and 50% against all other categories. To facilitate project
start-up, the Bank would finance retroactively eligible expenditures made
after February 1981, not to exceed US$5.0 million (9.5% of total loan
amount), excluding those for project management (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (i)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Production, Marketing and Financial Analysis
70.       The annual value of incremental production generated by the project
at full development (year 10) is estimated at about US$75 million, distri-
buted among a large number of crops (cassava, plantain, potatoes, beans,
maize, rice and vegetables) and livestock products. Project incremental pro-
duction, 15-20% of which is estimated to be consumed on the farm, would help
to slow down imports of certain products (maize, dairy products, cocoa), and
free additional exports of others (rice, sugar and beef).  The added produc-
tion should help slow down the past rapid increases in the prices of basic
foodstuffs to consumers.
71.       In view of the relative isolation of small producers, their frag-
mented production of a wide variety of commodities and their lack of market
and price information, substantial increases in production resulting from the
project could result in local price decreases.  It is expected, however, such
occurrences will be avoided through the improved production planning (parti-
cularly for perishables), and broadened marketing options (improved access to
markets, better price information, group marketing, and credit for agricul-
tural processing and marketing) brought about by the project.



-  20  -
72.       Financial rates of return for five illustrative farm models have
been estimated at above 50%, demonstrating that in all cases the returns to
farmers from the proposed investments would be large. Per capita annual
incomes would also be raised substantially, from US$387 to US$1,082 in con-
stant 1981 prices. At present, 85% of the direct beneficiaries are estimated
to be below the relative poverty level (estimated at US$393 per capita in
1980). After development, this proportion would decrease to 50% and those
below this level would be only marginally below the relative poverty level.
Cost Recovery
73.       Approximately US$84.0 million, or 48% of total project costs, ex-
cluding the beneficiaries' initial contributions in cash and labor (US$27.4
million), would be recovered. All farm development costs financed through
credit would be recovered but there would be no attempt at cost recovery for
management and administration costs, advisory services, training, roads and
the health and education components.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
74.       The project would directly increase production, productivity,
emnployment and incomes of about 28,000 small farmers (less than 20 ha), in
areas to be incorporated into the National DRI Program and 7,000 in areas
already in it. The project would generate the equivalent of about 15,700
man-years of agricultural labor, to be supplied by the farm families (50%)
and hired labor (50%). The economic rate of return (Phase I and II areas) is
estimated at 27% for the productive components, which account for 80% of to-
tal project costs. The calculation of the economic rate of return excludes
the education, health, water supply and rural electrification components
since no reliable estimate can be made.   These components, though not con-
tributing directly to the productive goals of the project, would help improve
the living conditions of the rural population.  Over time, these expenditures
are expected to have an important redistributive effect.
75.       No serious risks are anticipated since the project would be the
extension of a national program to which the Government is strongly committed
and that has been successful in the past.  There are two critical areas which
would require close follow up: the functioning of the marketing system and
price fluctuations, and the performance of the recently reorganized DNP/PAN-
DRI Directorate. The monitoring and constant review contemplated under the
proposed project should permit early detection of problems as well as taking
timely corrective measures to ensure that project objectives are achieved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Colombia and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
77.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
Ill. A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government, CAJA, and
FINANCIACOOP have signed subsidiary agreements pertaining to their respective



-  21  -
obligations with respect to the provision of credit to project beneficiaries
and the respective credit procedures have been adopted (Section 6.01(a), (b)
and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement);
78.       Conditions of disbursements would be that (a) DNP has signed subsi-
diary project agreements with the participating agencies, other than CAJA or
FINANCIACOOP, which define their responsibilities under the project (Section
3.01(c) and Schedule 1, paragraph 4(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(b) the Fund of the Ministry of Education and the Regional Education Funds
have entered into contractual arrangements defining their respective respon-
sibilities for the education component (Section 3.01(c) and Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 18, 1982



Annex I
- 22 -                                         Page I of 5
CULOMBLA - SUCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                       REFEUENCE GQOUPS (WEIGHTED AVE!.GES
LAND AREA (THUUSAND So. KM.)                                                            - CDST IRiCET ESTIMATE) a
IurAL            1138.9                                   MOST RECENT             MIDDLE LCICOIE            MIDDLE INCCtlE
AGglLULTLRAL      232.U               1960  /b    1970 LL ESTILATE  2    LATIN AMEICA 6 CARIASAN                EUROPE
gNiP eEK  APIIA (USi)                  250.0        400.0    [010.0*                    1616.2                     2609.1
ENERCY CUNSUMPTIoN PER CAPITA
(I"LoUKAOS uF CUAL EQUIVALENT)       510.2        659.7      937.9                   1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VIrAL STATISTICS                                      *
HJPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 15754.0        21266.0   26122.0
bREAN POPULATION  (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 48.2          59.9       69.1                      64.2                       53.2
POPULAIIUN PRUDECIToNS
?PUCLACLUN IN YEAR 200U (MILLIONS)                          39.9
STATIONARY POPULATION  (NILLIoNS)                           61.0
YEAR STATIONARY POFULATIUN IS REACHED                    2070
eOPULATION DENSITY
pEK Sq. KM.                         13.d         i8.7       22.9                     34.3                       90.6
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULIURAL LANU       72.5         95.7      110.2                     94.5                      133.9
PPUULArIUN ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-I4 YEb.                           46.8         46.2       38.2                     40.7                       30.1
15-04 YES.                           50.3         51.0      58.6                      55.3                       61.5
65 YIb. ANU ABUVE                     2.9          2.8        3.2                      4.0                        8.3
YOPULATIUN  R0WTi8 KATE (PERCENT)
TUTAL                                3.1          3.0        2.3                      2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                5.7          5.2        3.9                      3.7                        3.1
LAUUE BIRTH RAIE (PER TrIUSAND)       45.5         36.3       30.1                     31.4                       22.9
LR0UE DEATH KATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.0          9.5        7.9                      8.4                        9.1
URUSi REPROUUCTION RATE                3.3          2.6        1.9                      2.3                        1.6
FAMlLY PLANNING
ACLEL URS. ANNUAL (THoUSANUS)         ..        115.4      142.1
sDEKS (PEHLENDT oF MARIlED UOMEN)    ..            ..      46.1
FOuD AND NUITRIION
INDEX UF FPUU PRUDUCTIoN
PEA LAPIlA (1969-71-100)           100.0         99.0     124.0                     108.3                      119.8
PER LAPITA SUPPLY UF
LALUOIES (PERCENT UF
REQUlREMENTS)                     97.0         88.0     102.0                     107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GKADS PER DAY)            54.0         48.0       52.0                     65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0         24.0      26.0                      34.0                       39.7
CHILC) (AGES 1-41 JMRTALTIY RATE      i9.H         12.0        8.3                      7.6                        3.4
HIEA..IH
LCFE EXPEClANCY AT BIRIH (YEARS)    53.3           59.1      62.7                      64.1                       68.9
INFANI OURTALLITY RAIE (PER
THoUSANu)                             77.0           ..      65.0                      70.9                       25.2
ALLESS IU SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
PVPULATI EN)
TUTAL                               30.0d          ..      64.0                      65. 7
URBAN                               54.9/d         ..      73.0                      79.7
RUgAL                                6.8/d         ..      46.0                      43.9
ALCESS lU EYCREIA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TUTAL                                            47.0      44.4                      59.9
UKRAN                                 ..         75.0      60.0                      75.7
RURAL                                 ..          8.0      14.0                      30.4
FuPULATIuN PER PHYSIClAN            2638.9      2189.5    1966.7                     1728.2                      973.3
POPULAlIUN PER NURSINC PERSON       3740.0       1923.4    1250.0                    1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HUSPITAL BED
TuTAL                              362.9       449.4      619.1                     471.2                      262.3
URBAN                                 *-        377.5     540.3                     558.0                      191.8
AURAL                                 ..           ..
AOMIbSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         22.9      29.8                        ..                       18.2
tHOUSING
AVEKACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TIUAL                                 ..          5.7Lc
URkBAN                                ..          5.5         .
KURAL                                 ..          5.9c        .
AVEiACE NUMBER oF PERSONS PER ROOM
70TAL                                 ..          1.8/c
UKCAN                                 ..          1. 6        .
RURAL                                             2.4c        ..
ACLESS Tu ELECTRICITY (PEKRENT
OF UWELLINGS)
TurAL                               47.079      58.1.s
UKRBN                               83.07d      87.5/c
RURAL                                B.0Ld       13.2L       .



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                      REFERENCE GtOUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9JS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
HOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOEt            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMAATE /b    LATIN AKERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
rEDUCATIaN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT BATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  77.0        103.0      124.0                    101.7                      105.9
MALE                  77.0        101.0      122.0                     103.0                     109.6
FEMALE                77.0        105.0      127.0                     101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         24.0       43.0                     35.3                       66.3
MALE                  13.0         24.0       43.0                      34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                11.0         24.0       44.0                     35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  31.0/e         20.0       22.0                      30.1                      28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0       33.0                     29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0       21.0                     15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         80.8         ..                      80.0                      75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.2       18.1                     42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         125.1        104.3     117.1                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.5         38.1       74.0                     89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER CDAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0           ..       54.4                     62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        4.1                       3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4726.5       6353.4    8652.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    19.2         24.8      24.7                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4         37.9       27.1                     35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0      21.1                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.0         29.9       33.1                     31.8                       42.3
MALE                                  48.8         45.1       49.8                     49.0                       56.5
FEHALE                                11.5         14.8       16.4                     14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7          1.6        1.2                       1.4                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/d f    31.9/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/d f    60.01/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1            3.5/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8/d         L o.177 .f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     214.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     197.0                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     267.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     122.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      34.0                         .
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-teighted arilttetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1973;  /d 1964;  /e Including teacher training at the third levl;  /f Econcically active population.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1180 (at 1978-80 prices) and 26.7 million.
May, 1981



'1109OtIOl  in. I           td,016b 100    lOIIOblllsInIl.
*   ......11  Ie IT qd*It          tbo                       Alobbo loo,l - eoo-'ooa
dolloio   ltOMb  OOtI    Iq0  lil'i    0t
P                                                        a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i4l  tooode0b.,0      odIeIted-OOlOdOdlt 100
Pm    11l" troIorIlnA    lor   TIl   I  111    'tOTdl                        tlr IT0  Tq-*-l~
T-1 "I"T".a                                                                                                           .~~~~ t110*191  l'ItbIO leIllbi*ootrI I     ..l.....
11910- 1110110  IrOl fl0lJ  11*00  .iiorvOOb T-IttO                   T-Xlil                *.TT-r1000    bOi                  -..T0  ... qI01   090010qI'1010
rtr    l I= o. -T     T-I - -li-IoItt~ IT     09.10010010tll*                                      ~      ~     pn'11d T-TII.09   lloore -T too;   1I`41
'I0110*OIlQllldtlilIi  lii?  dbllIdlbIlt Ii OttiOll OIl              r-oi6p616161 046101696'09-1 104T1- 0-
'11b111  Lllool io.o?irr1.  ,.u'oxoodr O'IbO  II flilbtll lOOlOtOl '140  Itltl.T4 bPt - 0111  !d-2 .iltii' l,.o   - )bTlbo   0016 01tlro.0 .i
'bpnoluslawoNo9;e11  -   O6 't1011 96t1  00A 1  '0-                          11161  lP' Ol  bioerrbl
OIlIlldd,lflbOoddIl'i0101l00101b00.l'lllllbdolobll,o01'11l01b60           oooelotde,b.lpIboroe;looo.sb:bltqi  utollolP--JtoloiTdd'Tb.....I.oP.,bTl
1b 901     IotlO1     I- p-t   ubt* -1T Id   9109 -1 001011 4   lbIlOf0IT 01150                            lb,  liObb ibti- o-   (pdIlloI "1)Iif                         T-tios  I-   ri)01
00t0it00   30000  r*o  tt  n  0161  6-t,O,di  T%"10'rI   tlsld n    100?10   10
.1   T -T...-ft                                             I~bd0051000.101014-  101pT-twOloltIilTioriI:
oil  -q ...             6OOeooIl)til   190 '                        -    -     1         -tC 0- 'lil    161 -dib06 I16-166110-        11 0004-10TT?
?A   nI-d    10 "I'll 51 OOi -leTibidooi001        T- 01019      lObIbIlo  OlO_OS01019   0add                       sqOlOlo  AP11 m l90 10-- I*tlo   lb - I?          9  -tol  IU
'lo :iot _Ot?O   ....?OrlOlIl..110i1                                                P";boO    tt09IT0l00bo d.01,ololO
PTl  6161  0   16                                                 1 61   1" I.' '1t6                   ---t91   111   PTN90-
'110L661 Mt 0161  '0961 100 10'   OO 401l001brislrs11?tlo    0;Il   T.1ITetot*A d 00  111 hA1   ll?bl01   11
III 1l1010001 1000010 01 bOOtiiOt Ill  'Ill. It~~~~~~~ 0000000111100  1090100'-  bItO?; 014 101000101 11911 tIOl bottole, 0003110 00 iorlbIIl.....tII--OI  OlT_o_
''01l'OOlp?0I '11011100  Io00101l  09 pAe1n p096    Iboe    Il                          00    lOOO  -)111-01    09l1                   IbIOlo   A00100   11 -d 1
lOipOllt 'bObOll10110  011050000   lrtil*" 09.   100.0--      110d*'e66  001 '116  '91661,   ..Id-lOll  101     T.opoo  10                                  I.0 ......
1-1 P-Td-   ... ... 0.  P   01                       0piOblool91   1   e,0001I00                                 ppll  O   I
.......d- t... . ... I, .-,  N.1 j-:p0.                                 6611. Pb) b006100 f'S9-967   in'41119b1*010 091I   100
'tl  q0   01111    .116    11 .dA1T-p  *Iii 00-                                                                                                          011T-I00006 0109 000......
0110t101II  1   lIl  11111 590001   0      -llO.dd0  I101 Ao1,-t1"   1
T110inObllbp-TT-l   %l- rI-b   IbIlIC  1011  OtdO.                                                       Illll...011?  rtd0  010T-1110 I
*00t101011  dlilltettbItlOoOOl  ibOU        '~~~~~~6161 Mi? 'D061  '09610    'Oirrlrt*0Ii;T..11110011
Tot.qllOr    0   1   1I   011   05*    011   1IOll                                         0116o1~S    010    bl110    i   1001   011.O0~100   1
.7p.I   -I T"                      P ... -,I I-)   -T-I-~~1 010000               -060  *111' I0101  410 Ibll? d              110-)...0'lr  000   .01 ....0
........  ~ ~     ~      ~ ~ '6-16  ~'6lt"16d1  't06961, '09056OellIlOl -r-1
11110 0* Mll  0 bIl)  010* 111111T.    - lOOllOT- OT   11t011P011910T                                                                     101   dlt  Il 1T0-'06 1T-0I
10I  P*tOl  lOOOrIol   - 5*pool                                         ....1110      Itill~t0                                                      '1*   6 P1   O  bt'90    40
'llOlldOirdO  0,01101140 bill101011     Id .. 0100                    IdOl  1* zOOll         0)100     -b  Pl1., -dot 91l4-11-1tO   *   0   1
-011601 1110'o.ItSl100 "T...Ilin  tltoOI'q.. 10101T'*0lold0  Co                                                                                                        . '06   1100? .11-0
Ot-IlliOll lllrblloOOloOlpooObbOloO   1lSr;orllIO'' 01l1600~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.010~~~                           ________-_____T-    _T-     __I I____-
LlbiOlll1100? *1dIotltol- ItUbo   lt IrI'lo  - T- 100    101. --0-1111  00 lOtsC 11 001011r03   01   0 --od  'Ito   0.o0'
199Ml   1119    tOlO    010                          ...0100    6'101    0110 ...11110 11111 -T- ilolO10100  LOt                              17-l1'p-1-1b011   101
I000b0I*  le  1it0l110 It1101   0o*0001' 01111  11'5010111001           11 10001111   p  11  00I00'Ol   0b  000  7' .r.. I1 Ior ... 1101 il
rS*11101101r1111109  00011 0000 11  dli0101  l:bo101000                                    't           1101;0   00191    11011 1411- Il    q-11-1I_   p0?                 I:
- 0*101 d?  '01910 A Itd-11110   00lboO    10111    0311                                     111bt*    1  1001    00Stt00'   bdO   Ol:1I11
TF.M  - P.-q-                                                                              Z~~~~oo    Ii0110  trI   111  111   0Ib- u:b0sAtI  1 I_ ~   l0101l*0*d   I,"01 10
dl? IllIlOOl 00 IlrOb0llO"000 10110011 lOltItloC  '0 1l1000I0lbt'IOllltl0  '11010 001 100011  in? t11111001, 11190 100011  001 10, 40 0000110001 110
-I10010*11lOO   lP10T-1b11Iell  11-              10101   P 71101100ll    111                                                                                                           tl
-1:.11 I'-   11"   11              11 01090i0  '1100  01  01Tilla-
---ltl lO'*t -11M1111  IlT"'          00 1601   Ot-                ..1101   in ..0001
-OO  01*-Il  14dT Tr91   --q61460 100T)0 ''00'111-P1   'Il1ls011--1t1..1100.1 b01   dol     "I 'oE
1 19.  ."I,11111      90141 I10'Id             10b      -10  bIlo    IOl oT                      01    (014   otl,ltd1010101091  00t-  0i0  111  49jj 2loblO
011111lblb T        111.ld*t 1911:11 TrII  ,l,ItdI  '11116t*tlrl'od66    111   i   011111 19001  M?  1001'olb0'd                                                                   0
09    i  Ildi    llt100101IoOl   I0ilT0   110   ibt190                                              911111  0001001-T               b113   lO100l19   0191       *                        _10t1
10191*99119   ' 111111 10 d.1100000   194   0*1101'*0                                               11*  0*1T   01  bIl 0_      1 . ,  .0060  1IT 01101            100  - 11000
0110 I   ITo  6109    llo*011Ob  0;111120190*   riIb   e                                  _lOd    III s  - -110*1   -lIp -ooo  .0111             I.0 01 ...lIt-Itd 110t0-9
11011   11100  1919  190 IIOlO  *ro' _b191919001  lOt qloej d-    111.0..    11  1? A1110 ...1I1601 1909  lio  Xi0oo-           olUll-n-   .II  sIr n..0$00191 
-1110  'II' lOl 19010*0  Is   1001*1T0  01  -771000  011 01__       9010111001  il 1001tI110P"0001                       "0IT?  -10 00  -1100191t*60 01011'
'f111100U 4*9   0190.-- 100 T011t10    01'1111    1111010111111790  Mi00ll111T111*b1-                                  0110901111110009 9 110
tOO1DbbUO '101)0 IC 06001604I32
I xauu-g



- 25 -
AUNESi 1
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                            Page 4 of
Pop,iotion:  26,670,000 (mid-1980)                                                                                                                           g   4o  
GNP Per Capita: US$1,180 a/
A--tnt                  Average Annual Increase (%)          Share of CDP at Market Prices (1)
Indicator                                                  (million US$                 (at constant 1970 prices)                  (at current prices)
at currert prices)
1980 b/                 1960-70   1970-75    1975-80         1960       1970        1975      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gro-s domestic product c/32,686                                                                5.3        6.1          5.8       100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                                       8,197                      3.5        5.2          4.2        34.1       28.6       29.3       25.2
Induntry                                                          8,799                     6.2         6.1         4.4         25.7       26.6       28.3       29.2
Sersices                                                         12,559                     5.9         7.3          6.4        40.2      44.8        42.4      45.6
Con-noptio.                                                        24,435                      5.9        6.6          5.6         79.4      69.6       01.6       74.7
Gross Investment                                                    7,994                      5.1        0.6          8.5         20.5      22.0        17.8      24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                                            5,648                      3.1        5.9         10.0         15.6      14.2        15.1      17.4
Imports of goods and NFS                                            5,391                      4.3        1.1         12.7        15.5       15.8       14.5       16.5
Gross national savings                                              8,103                      5.2        5.3         10.8         19.4      18.0        16.8      24.8
ComposLtion of Merchandise Trade (-.)
fat   --Con  orice-)
1960    1970        1975       1980
MERChANDISE TRADE
M-erh-ndise Exports (FOB                                            4428                       3.3        1.4         10.8       100.0    100.0        100.0      100.0
Maj-r primary                                                     2,871                     2.8        -4.6        12.8         72.5      69.4        51.2      64.8
Majcr manufactures                                                  686                                23.8         6.5            -        0.0       24.5       15.5
Otber                                                               871                       -         3.8          5.4           -       21.6       24.3       19.7
Merch.ndise Exports (CIF)                                           4,533                      3.5       -2.3          9.0       100.0    100.0        100.0      100.0
Focc                                                                364                    10.0       -0.1         13.4          2.4       4.0         4.8       8.0
Petroleum                                                           750                   -21.4        70.6        43.5          2.0         -         2.0      16.5
M-ahinery a-d equip-ent                                           1,750                      5.2       -8.5        11.0         42.7       50.6       36.4       38.6
Other                                                             1,669                     1.8         2.4         5.4         52.9      44.9        56.8      36.9
1974        1975        1976       1977        1978        1979      1980  b/
PRICES AND TERM1 OF TRAD0
GDP deflator                                                              27.6        20.8        03.6        28.3       17.1        23.9      24.5
Exchange rate                                                             27.1         31.2       35.0        36.9       39.3        42.6      47.3
Export price index                                                       155.4       159.7       214.5       303.6      260.2       262.2    294.9
lmport p-ace index                                                      210.3        207.3       233.5      254.3       202 0      220 6    252 2
Tterm  of trade index                                                     73.9        73.5        91.9      119.4       128.8       118.8    117,0
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
1970          1975          1980 f/
PUBLIC FlNANCE d/
Cucreat reveanu                                                                                   10.6           11.1          12.1
Curreot expenditure                                                                                5.7            6.6           8.2
Surplus (+) or dofic-t (-)                                                                         4.9            45            3.9
Capitol expondit-re                                                                                1.8            4.6           4.6
Fceoign financing el                                                                               3.3            2.9           3.2
1960-7C      1970-75        1975-80
OT1ER IUDICATORS
GNP growth rate  (-1)                                                                              5.10          6.30          6.00
GNP per capsta growth rate (7.)                                                                    2.00          3.90          3.70
Eergy conumption growth r-tc (T.1                                                                  5.00          4.00          4.00
IGOR L/                                                                                            3.54          3.43          4.JU
Marginal savings rate h/                                                                           0.13          0.13          0.16
Import elast-city                                                                                  1.17          0.16          2.20
a! WorLd Bask Atlas Method.
E/ Intimated.
c   At  -acket prices:  Components oe expressed at factor cost a-d will not add because af e-clusion of net indirect tanes a-d suhbidies.
d/ Central G.o-enment.
e Gross disbarsements of external loans tc the entire public sector.
f/ Inclcdes Social Security and Fordo Vial.
g/ Lagged one year.
h/  Inc-ement to gross domestic savings/increment so gross dmo.s.oi product.
Novemcb- 11, 1981



0001004I 00004 4 0 '00
04  000l-'40I o040' 0 -
0   04010 1 04  01004                                               -
-                                                                  of S
-   0 009.00  000    0                                              P.g.   -
o                                  -
00        '  04r  N               00
000b-.0 CI 0044 0 0
0000041 00N0 4 0 40
0   440[000 000 00  0 -
02<          -
-      0o001 0000010  40
0   04000410000 4I 0 -
O   04 01040100..04410I00      00400000000400000   00 000000000040  0
0   N04I000I000040I4Io .       00o  100... 04  0400000   44
0      '12 21 0000001          2                            00 00N000  4000 0
000000000000  0 40         44000400000   4000000   400400040000040
o00I0 0 000004 4 0 .    ' 00N,004000   N010N00 0  40
000<0 010000000  0        ' 000,040000   0000000   00                   I
00010  I  o100 4 00        00000000   000000000  00 000440   4000 0
0 0010401 000000 0 00      ...000404000   0040000   00 04 404004   0000
4 0  40   00410 01  00000 0 00        00000000   400 0o0*  00 00 000400   4000 0
000 000I4o000010I4o        0040000400   0000000   00000000 00  4000 o
0      0   0000001 0000041 41 4.      .4001000000   0000040   00
000001  oOooOI Ol 4        N 00000000040040   0- 0- 4000000000  0
0  oo,l  01  0
4004001 000000            '000' 000000   40004044,..
00001J                     00000000004004 .0  No 00 040040   0000 0
0             00.0
0   000000000004404            0000004040   000000000  40 0000000404
0   000000004000    0*         1000,000000400000000
00                                                                   0  0             00
0             4,   0   0   00
110                                                0  '0     I-      40   00  Coo
0   0  0  0      00   0           00
00       0                 0             0         0   0   0  0      0"   0  0oIE
00  0.    00                      0     0-                         VI  00   0  OIOI 01
0.  00                0      0     0 '0        4    0  o
00    00  4'I         0      '0    0           0   01  0  0   0    00    0
44   000    0  01          0   0   0  -  00        0   0   4    0  0   00   0
000    00  0 I         0    0   0   0  00       0   0  0.  0  0  00'-   0
000  000000 I             0 0   0   0                0 0 0          000000
10'0'0  0   0000    0     Eo  4'  000    0    '000  -  0   0  0   0  0'  0 0 00
000  '00 00000 0 0 0.0   000   0100 0  00       .0  0  0  11 00    010 0
000004'  0 oO             0-4'   000 0  00       0  4' 0100.4 4'  o   0o0> 0
22 00 0 4   o20Z                    000 -
4000    0000 0 00    0 000  00    0100   014 0)0100010 00 Fo   00000
0 000000 0'0o400   00   00000   040004000  o'00..00  00 40 000000
00.. 000 OCoODO            4000000000  OOOOOOOO,ool.Oo
ot                00 070t3.0-<02tt2
0)000000 o000 0                       ;-- COo            00000  0000
00000000000                                      '0  0 4 4 0'- 0000  0001444
4000000   oC 000 0 00    00000000000 0010        4 1-.F 0 0 ooooo
01  000'0004               0010   0      010     0 0        <     0
4  0   0         4   00   0              0         0                0



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
59 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                     1,087.1      23.5 /1   --
920     1973  Colombia                           Education         21.2                4.4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0                4.7
1118    1975  Colombia                           Rural Settlement 19.5                 2.7
1163    1975  Colombia                           Agriculture       21.0                9.2
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   80.0                 1.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.         52.0               12.4
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                 13.4
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de                Communications   58.3                47.8
Telecomunicaciones
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways           90.0               26.3
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition          25.0               14.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply          13.8                9.1
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8               20.1
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0               71.8
1583    1978  Colombia                           Power             50.0               14.1
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial             Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export           15.0                8.4
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.  100.0                11.7
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0               25.5
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power              84.0               27.5
1694    1979  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            13.5               11.7
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply       30.0               23.0
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725    1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power               72.0             68.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.   20.0               16.7
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel       80.0               7.2
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                  87.0              77.7
de Bogota
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications    44.0                43.8
Medellin
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0                20.4
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0               146.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 125.0             123.0
1953 /1 1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                  85.0              85.0
1966 /1 1981  Colombia                          Rural Roads         33.0              33.0
1996 /2 1981  Instituto Colombiano de           Irrigation          37.0              37.0
Hidrologia
1999 /2 1981  Corporacion Electrica de la    Power                  36.0             36.0
Costa Atlantica
2008 /L 1981  Empresa de Energia                Power              359.0            359.0
Electrica de Bogota
2069 /2 1981  Instituto Nacional de los         Watershed
Recursos Naturales             Management           9.0              9.0
Renovables y del Medio
Ambiente
2090 /2 1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways            77.0              77.0
de Colombia
TOTAL                                            3,340.2      23.5
Of which has been repaid                           601.7       2.6
Total now outstanding                            2,738.5      20.9
Amount sold                          51.0
Of which has been repaid             48.6            2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   2,736.1      20.9
Total undisbursed                                                  1,530.3
/I   Not yet effective.
/2   Not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board          .50      -        .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products       1.98    .08       2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans           .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture       .08    .09         .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment         .50       -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing            -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development            -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles            1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging          -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing         1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock           1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles           5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism                -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development            -    .45        .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development            -    .43        .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism              .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism              .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing                -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement             1.50       -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement             3.60       _       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining             6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities         13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material         1.95    .79        2.74
1980       Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing            9.00    .17        9.17
1981       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals 12.15  _3.86       16.01
Total Gross Commitments                              60.97  18.16      79.13
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              47.37  _8.89       56.26
Total commitments now held by IFC                    13.60   9.27      22.87
Total undisbursed                                     7.86    .42       8.28



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
As of March 31, 1982 1/
1.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - March 31, 1982
Project execution was suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition of
sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 after the Bank agreed
to redimension the project to give greater emphasis to primary education,
but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government proposed to the
Bank to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the
loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as modified in
1977. Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in
planning, construction, educational programming and personnel training, and
project execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay
and higher costs, the scope of the project has been reduced. The closing date
will not be extended and the undisbursed balance will be cancelled. The comple-
tion mission is scheduled for June 1982. As of March 31, 1982, US$16.8 million,
or 80% of the loan, had been disbursed.
2.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
Five of the eight subprojects have been completed, but project
execution slowed during 1981 as a result of managerial problems; the
ground water component and subprojects in Barranquilla, Cartagena and
Villavicencio are now expected to be completed by the end of 1982. The
closing date will be extended by one year for these 3 sub-projects and for
19 of the 30 cities in groundwater program. INSFOPAL's management has been
urged to strengthen project supervision and to accelerate project execution
and disbursements. As of March 31, 1982, US$22.3 million, or 83% of the loan,
had been disbursed, and about US$850,000 will be cancelled.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1982
Project execution is behind schedule and the closing date has
been extended by one year to December 31, 1982. A recurring problem, which
imposes serious operational constraints, is the slow transfer of counterpart
funds to the project and weak financial management. Measures to correct this
problem are being considered. As of March 31, 1982, US$2.7 million, or 14% of
the loan, remained undisbursed.
4.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1983
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and execution is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies are taking corrective measures. The
project's social component, schools, domestic water supply and health, is
progressing satisfactorily. As of March 31, 1982, US$11.8 million, or about
56% of the loan amount, had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of March 31, 1982, about 98% of the loan had been
disbursed and the remaining balance will be cancelled.
6.        Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fifth year of implementation and proceed-
ing well, in spite of its complexity. The project's components of credit,
technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, and institu-



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
tional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry, water supply and
health components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is satisfactory and a comprehensive first stage evaluation is
currently underway. As of March 31, 1982, US$39.6 million, or 76% of the loan,
had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1982.
The US$25 million assigned to medium and large farmers has been fully
committed and disbursed. However, only 39% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been conmitted; ways are being considered to speed up such commit-
ments. The Borrower has increased considerably its end-use supervision in
order to avoid possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds. About
85% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 160 sub-
projects. As of March 31, 1982, US$50.6 million, or 79% of the loan, had been
disbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project was originally delayed by personnel changes in the
Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procurement of project
goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion, and design
of buildings to house equipment. Satisfactory progress is being made in the
acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies and, overall, procure-
ment and construction have accelerated. As of March 31, 1982, US$47.8 million,
or 82% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
9.        Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
66% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin. As of March 31, 1982, US$63.7 million, or
71% of the loan, had been disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
10.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress has been achieved in the major components of health and water
supply but by and large execution is running about a year behind schedule.
Progress in the nutrition education component deteriorated in 1981 due to lack
of funding and personnel changes; corrective measures have been taken to accele-
rate execution in 1982. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but actions on these are now underway.
As of March 31, 1982, US$10.8 million, or 43% of the loan, had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements were resumed on September 4, 1981 once EMCALI undertook
to adopt corrective measures. Suspension of disbursements did not stop
project implementation but did result in a slow down; however, EMCALI estimates
this time can be made up and the project completion date of December 31, 1983
can be met. As of March 31, 1982, US$4.7 million, or 34% of the loan, had been
disbursed.
12.       Ln. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Plans for all the 23
cities have been approved by the Bank. The new General Manager of SIP
accelerated project execution and established a working unit to monitor
progress and evaluate the project and, in general project budgeting, staffing,
reporting, physical and financial execution greatly improved during 1981. For
some time, the Bank has been recommending a review of the project scope to
ensure its completion on time. Recently SIP has presented a proposal to
reduce the project and this proposal is currently being reviewed by the Bank.
As of March 31, 1982, US$4.7 million, or 19% of the loan, had been disbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
13.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date:  April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule, with good performance by
the Borrower. The first generating unit is expected to be in operation in
September 1982. As of March 31, 1982, US$54.2 million, or 43% of the loan,
had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The Bank-financed component (transmission line) is proceeding on
schedule, at lower-than-anticipated cost. However, project completion is
likely to be delayed by about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the
contract award for substations (KfW was originally to finance this component).
The Government is contacting other sources of finance. The line is energized
temporarily at 230 kV, pending full completion of the works. As of March 31,
1982, US$35.9 million, or 72% of the loan, had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project execution
is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are both
well under way, and by early summer most support infrastructure should be
operational. The soils and foundation studies necessitated by difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site have been initiated and will be completed
in May. As of March 31, 1982, US$6.6 million, or 44% of the loan, had been
disbursed.
16.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and loan funds are virtually
fully committed. As of March 31, 1982, 88% of the loan, or about US$88.3
million, had been disbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and instrumentation has been
installed in order to estimate amount of camber necessary to compensate for
future settlement. As of March 31, 1982, about 58% of the loan had been
disbursed.
18.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well advanced, although with about 1-1/2 year
delay. Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$98.5 million) are
expected as a result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. As of
March 31, 1982, 67% of the loan had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
The project is about 24 months behind schedule, with cost overruns,
which are mainly due to inflation, of over 35%. As of March 31, 1982, US$11.7
million, or 87% of loan funds remained undisbursed.
20.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Significant progress has been made on the Bogota River sewage treatment
and rectification study, the construction of water and sewerage systems in low-
income neighborhoods, the purchase of meters and of maintenance equipment. Con-
struction of major civil works, however, has been slow. Project expenditures are
only 10% of appraisal projections and project completion is now scheduled for
April 1984, i.e. 1-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule. The Borrower is taking
adequate measures to speed up project execution and further delays are not antici-
pated. As of March 31, 1982, US$23.0 million, or 77% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: June 19, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are proceeding well at lower than anticipated cost, and
with good performance by the Borrower. As of March 31, 1982, US$68.7 million,
or 95% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
22.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
After two years delay, preparatory work for the 23 subprojects
is nearing completion. The Bank has reviewed draft agreements for 22 of the
23 cities and INSFOPAL has committed to provide all corrected and signed
agreements, plus necessary documentation related to conditions of disbursement
for individual projects, by the end of April 1982. Once the agreements are
received and the conditions met, project implementation is expected to improve.
As of March 31, 1982, the entire loan remained undisbursed.
23.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Disbursements are lagging, even taking into account the one year delay
in effectiveness, mostly because of slow on-lending commitments. The revolving
fund for credit is working satisfactorily. However, the Borrower's overall
financial management remains weak and steps are being considered to strengthen it.
As of March 31, 1982, 17% of the loan had been disbursed.
24.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
The project is expected to be completed on schedule by the end of
April 1982. Cost overruns (mostly financial) of about 29% and cash flow
deficiencies for the initial operations period, required a revision of the
financing plan and the Borrower is seeking the Bank's agreement for an additional
long-term loan from commercial banks and additional commitments from share-
holders.  As of March 31, 1982, 91% of the loan has been disbursed.
25.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
Effective Date: September 25, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution is well advanced, with contracts awarded for most of
the equipment and materials needed for the project. As of March 31, 1982,
US$77.7 million, or 89% of the loan, remained undisbursed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
26.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: October 30, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 30, 1981.  Procurement is well
advanced, and the project is proceeding satisfactorily. As of March 31, 1982,
US$43.8 million, or 99% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
27.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983.
Project execution is underway with commitments proceeding at a fast
pace. The loan amount is expected to be fully committed by year-end 1982.
As of March 31, 1982, US$11.6 million, or 36% of the loan, had been disbursed.
28.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981 and is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of March 31, 1982, US$34.6 million had been committed to
sub-projects.
29.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: June 29, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985.
The project is well underway, although the contracting of works has
taken longer than expected. The main civil works contracts for underground works
and power house were awarded in September 1981 and construction is underway. As
of March 31, 1982, US$123.0 million, or 98% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
30.       Ln. No. 1953-CO Playas Hydro Power; US$85 million, November 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1966-CO Rural Roads; US$33 million, September 24, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1996-CO Irrigation Rehabilitation; US$37 million, April 16, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.       Ln. No. 1999-CO Village Electrification; US$36 million.
This loan was approved on May 21, 1981 but is not yet signed.
34.       Ln. No. 2008-CO Guavio Power; US$359 million, March 8, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.
35.       Ln. No. 2069-CO Upper Magdalena Watershed; US$9.0 million,
April 16, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.
36.       Ln. No. 2090-CO Railways VII; US$77.0 million.
This loan was approved on February 16, 1982 but is not yet signed.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project - 18 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project - National Planning
Department (DNP)
(c) First presentation to the Bank - Late 1980
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission - February 2, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations - May 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness - September 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Initial close Bank supervision, especially of the credit and marketing
components, will be required to ensure that the project's objectives will be
met. The report to be furnished by the DRI/PAN Directorate on the comparison
of achievements and targets for 1982 will need to be carefully analyzed and
followed up.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Assurances were obtained that:
(a) during and after project completion, the Government would provide
or cause CAJA and FINANCIACOOP to provide all necessary credit
funds to allow project farmers to start and complete the planned
development of their farms; also, project farmers would be provided
with the required technical assistance during that period (para-
graph 49);
(b) the Government would continue to provide the beneficiaries under
the first phase project (Loan 1352-CO) with sufficient seasonal and
long-term credit and the necessary technical assistance on agricul-
tural production, processing, and marketing so that they can sus-
tain and improve upon the technology they have adopted (paragraph
49);
(c) FFAP would provide necessary funds to CAJA for the production cre-
dit on the same basis as it provides such funds to other financial
intermediaries (paragraph 51);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  FINANCIACOOP's credit terms and conditions would be reviewed semi-
annually by the Government and Bank concurrence would be obtained,
prior to any modifications; additionally, no changes would be in-
troduced in CAJA's lending operations which would adversely affect
the project (paragraph 52);
(e) the Government would make a detailed review of the progress of the
DRI program during 1982 and promptly carry out any measures needed
to strengthen its management function (paragraph 64);
(f) DNP would carry out a socio-economic baseline survey by February 28,
1983 to be repeated 4 years thereafter and strengthen its monitoring
and evaluation unit (paragraph 64).
2.   A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government has signed
subsidiary agreements with CAJA and FINANCIACOOP pertaining to their respec-
tive credit operations under the project (paragraph 52).
3.   Conditions of disbursements would be that (a) in connection with each
project componentt, subsidiary agreements have been signed between DNP and the
participating agencies (paragraph 64); and (b) the Fund of the Ministry of
Education and the Regional Education Funds have entered into contractual
arranagements satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 56).



98.                                    74-                                                  o,be,   e
-12~       a   ,        b    e    a  n       5  a  a                                                     CtMd            :c,
c                                                                  Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
ibd~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ I i/PA                     IV
VA L I~~~~
-      j~~iIekETAr
N.i~~~~~~~~~~[k
CAUC                                                                 GUAIIVIACESA
al6l- ~ ~ ~     ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~-
I DCRPR )ON/X                                           v       N         ;zT       't    k     A
f  0T,errelte,e-.--
/)~~~
Nj/                                         W  I
\ \ /
c6~~~~                                                                  ' 
Pact  6/ c   C//C CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I ~~~~~~~~~3ffC4A~~~~~~~~~~~~to
D              KIL !Wq 



