Report No. PID8795
Project Name                     Mozambique-Mineral Resources Management (@)
Capacity Building Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Mining & Other Extractive
Project                          MZPE1808
Borrower(s)                      MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF MINERAL RESOURCES AND
ENERGY (MIREME)
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 7, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         December 9, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 13, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Mozambique has a favorable geologic environment for mining but the impact of
mining on the economy is still very small : less than 0.259 of the Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and about 1.4% of exports (1997). The value of
Mozambique's mineral production rose from virtually nil in 1990 to around the
US$ 7.0 in 1998, of which about US$ 6.0 million comes from industrial
minerals and construction materials, and US$ 1.0 million from gold and
gemstones. However, most of the activity in gold and gemstones stills takes
place in the informal sector. The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
(MIREME) estimates that about US$ 10 million of gold and US$ 30 to 40 million
of semi-precious stones are illegally exported from Mozambique each year.
Annual fiscal revenues arising directly from mining (including surface rental
fees for exploration) represent about US$ 1 million.
The Government of Mozambique is actively seeking to attract private and
foreign investment to promote growth in the sector. The sector policy
approved on February 1998 by the Council of Ministers clearly defines
Government's role as a regulator, promoter, facilitator and supervisor of
mining activity, leaving the operational and implementation role to the
private sector. Because of the country's geological potential and
Government's pragmatic approach to the implementation of the sector policy,
investors have shown positive interest in terms of exploration. However,
foreign investment in mining projects has yet to materialize. The joint
MIREME/World Bank report "Mining Sector Policy Review", part of the country's
Economic and Sector Work for FY 1999, identified four major constraints for
the development of the sector: insufficient geological information available
on the country, a deficient legal and regulatory framework, lack of capacity
of government institutions in the sector, and lack of infrastructure.
The conclusions of these reports have been discussed in the Mining Policy
Dialogue Seminar "Policy and Strategies for Mining Development in Mozambique:
Attracting Foreign Investment into mining held in Maputo in July 1999 and
funded with an IDF Grant. Four key issues requiring immediate action have
been identified in the seminar : (i) Introduce a new mining code to bring



Mozambique into line with contemporary international mining legislation; (ii)
Improve inter-ministerial co-ordination and build capacity for efficient and
effective administration in the relevant government agencies; (iii) Collect,
process and make available the geoscientific data currently available in
Mozambique; and (iv) Simplify and standardize procedures for granting mining
titles, and create a separate unit for their administration.
Other issues that have been identified in the Mining Sector Policy Review for
Mozambique include : (i) Current barriers for mineral exploration by large
mining companies have to be reduced, so that Mozambique can attract the
annual flow of US$ 50-100 million in exploration investments needed to
develop the sector; (ii) The focus of overall mining taxation should be
shifted towards profit-related taxes and away from royalties; (iii)
Transparency and security for investors should be improved by the
introduction of standard mining agreements with stability clauses and
automatic incentives, reducing to the maximum extent possible the derogation
to the common regime subject to case-by-case negotiation; (iv) Public mining
institutions need equipment, financial resources, and qualified and trained
staff, in order to fulfill their mandates and enforce the law; (v) Capacity
building for mining institutions has to be integrated in a broader framework
of coordination among governmental institutions, through initiates like the
creation of shared information systems (such as GIS based information
systems); (vi) Mozambique needs carefully designed environmental protection
regulations and procedures that take into account the specificity of mining
along the different phases of the investment cycle. (vii) There is a need to
clearly define the respective mandates and competence of the Ministry of
Environmental Coordination (MICOA) and MIREME in the draft environmental
regulations that have been prepared for mining. MIREME should also develop
its capacity for the enforcement of environmental regulations, baseline
studies, social assessments, public consultation, as well as the
environmental problems and challenges related to small-scale mining, for
which the dissemination of international best practices could be particularly
useful; and (viii) Innovative solutions for private sector involvement on the
financing of infrastructure need to be developed.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the proposed Mineral Resources Management Capacity
Building Project (MRMP) is to provide technical assistance to the Government
of Mozambique (GOM) for : (i) institutional development and regulatory reform
designed to encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in a
socially and environmentally sound way; and (ii) targeted interventions to
alleviate poverty in areas of strong incidence of small-scale and artisanal
mining. Specific project objectives include: (a) improving the legal and
regulatory reform to help establish an enabling environment to promote
private investment into mining, while ensuring real and sustainable
contribution to economic growth; (b) institutional capacity building to
develop capabilities to effectively enforce laws and regulations, administer
mining titles, and monitor the sustainable development of small-scale mining;
(c) development of a data bank and geological maps to strengthen the
Government's capacity to make essential geoscientific and natural resources
information available to potential investors; (d) institutional strengthening
to establish capacity in the country for environmental management, and to
develop the understanding of and the capacity to address social impacts from
mining; and (e) identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to increase
revenues and improve the quality of life in selected areas of strong
-2 -



concentration of artisanal miners, through the establishment of legal rights
for their activity and the provision of extension services to improve the
social, welfare, health and environmental conditions of artisanal miners.
The project has been designed to provide a learning experience for the
country, the Bank, and investors with respect to implementing sector reform
and attracting private sector investment into the country. Learning will
relate to the process of negotiating contracts, including interface between
public and private sectors and communities; dealing with foreign investors,
meeting investor needs; understanding cross-sector dynamics in the context of
regional development; establishing effective inter-relationships with
environment agencies; and conducting baseline environmental studies and
social assessments prior to introducing mining operations in an area.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Experience in the country. Since 1992, Mozambique is making good use of the
Bank's experience in macroeconomic and sector reform, particularly with
respect to capacity building of public institutions, modernization of its
legal and regulatory framework and privatization of state-owned enterprises.
Given its experience and established presence in the country. Bank
involvement would facilitate the implementation of the project in a timely
and efficient manner and ensure that the Government maintains its focus on
the objectives of the project.
Bank's competitive advantage in mining. The Bank has been the leading
provider of assistance to mining sector reform in African and Latin American
countries during the last decade and in this capacity has contributed to an
upsurge in mining activities in both continents. The Bank is the only donor
capable to provide an integrated approach to the technical assistance to the
given to Government for institutional development and regulatory reform
designed to encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in a
socially and environmentally sound way. Bank involvement will also be
catalytic in attracting additional funds and support from bilateral donors
particularly for the implementation of the social mitigation measures, and in
providing the environment for encouraging private sector investment.
4. Description
A) Institutional Reform and Capacity Building of public mining institutions.
The project would assist in: (i) strengthening the policy making, regulatory
and sector management capabilities in MIREME; (ii) rationalizing the role of
the State from being an owner and operator of mining assets to a regulator
and administrator by reducing State involvement in exploration and mining by
allowing and promoting private sector participation; (iii) finalizing the
implementation of an enabling legal and regulatory framework aimed at
promoting private mining enterprises; and (iv) restructuring and modernizing
of the National Directorate of Mining (DNM) and the National Directorate of
Geology (DNG), based on the redefinition of their mandates and internal
procedures, in order to transform them into a sector promotion tool providing
a good base for the provision of sound geological information; (v)
deconcentrating DNM and DNG away from Maputo, into four inter-regional points
(Nampula, Tete, Manica and Niassa); (vi) establishing proper computer-based
cadastre and mine-reporting systems as well as explicit criteria and non-
discretionary procedures for the granting and foreclosing of mining rights;
and (vii) improving capacity at MIREME to attract private sector investment
by allocating resources for promotional programs, and institutional
-3 -



development.
B) Development of the Country's Geological Infrastructure. The main objective
of this component is to provide the basic and reliable geological information
necessary to facilitate the promotion of private investments in the mining
sector and to support the planning of the social-economical development of
the country. The actual coverage of geological and geophysical surveys in
Mozambique is relatively extensive because of investigations realized during
the colonial time and a major effort made after independence in the eighties.
However, the major part of the maps and the data have not been published and
are under a great risk of dispersion and loss. Moreover, recent geological
maps to a large extend are based on remote sensing with restricted fieldwork
and thus are not sufficiently reliable for mineral exploration. The use of
the geological information is not limited to the mining sector but also forms
the base for the planning of the development of the infrastructure (roads,
etc.), land use planning, urban development, and the management of the
environmental resources. Therefore, the production of the geological
infrastructure is an integral part of the social and economical development
of the country.
In order to achieve this goal, the component would: (i) complete the regional
airborne geophysical coverage of the country, and finance a denser coverage
over selected promising areas; (ii) update and improve of the existing
coverage of geological maps at 1:250.000 scale, and support the detailed
coverage of selected areas of high mineral potential; (iii) compile the
existing geochemical survey data, including the re-analysis of existing
samples and some complementary sampling; (iv) strengthen the network of
seismic stations to monitor the seismic activity of the country; (v)
establish a modern and computerized Minerals Information System (MIS), to
compile and catalogue dispersed data, and modernize and improve DNG's
documentation center; (vi) conduct an inventory of industrial minerals and
construction materials in Mozambique in order to promote investment
opportunities to the local private sector; and (vii) strengthen the National
Museum of Geology; and the Central Laboratory of the DNG. Main sub-
components include :
Subcomponent B.1: Component Supervision and Coordination: Considering the
highly specialized technical activities to be carried out within the present
component, external assistance will be necessary for the coordination and
supervision of the works and consulting services in order to minimize the
technical contingencies that used to arise from such activities. The Project
will finance under a "twining" arrangement the engagement of a foreign
geological survey ("supervisor") with the experience in contracting
geophysical airborne surveys, geological mapping and in the establishment and
operation of mineral information systems. The supervisor shall oversee the
work, coordinate the different consulting firms and contractors engaged for
the execution of the component, evaluate the product's quality and advise the
DNG in case of problems.
Subcomponent B.2: Geophysics Airborne Survey (IDA + parallel financing). The
objective of the Geophysics Airborne Survey is to efficiently furnish
essential geological information of public domain to private investors. The
Project will finance (parallel financing) the completion of the airborne
geophysical coverage in the southern part of Mozambique along the Zimbabwe
border as well as higher density surveys in selected areas of high mineral
- 4 -



potential of the northern part of the country. The parallel finance shall
also finance the compilation and treatment of the data from the previous
airborne geophysical surveys including the digitalization of the analogical
records whenever their quality justifies the operation.
Subcomponent B.3: Geological Mapping of Mozambique (parallel financing).
Mozambique posses an extensive coverage of geological maps. However, almost
all the maps present disconformities at the boundaries with the lack of
continuity of the geological formations from one map to another. The entire
mapping carried out in the past has to be revised, updated and homogenized
regarding the stratigraphy and regional structures. The previous mapping
programs generated a large amount of documents (maps, reports, laboratory
results and samples) that are under the risk of dispersion or loss due to
inadequate infrastructure and cataloguing. Therefore, it is urgent to
compile, scan and catalogue this information for its preservation. This
program would support geological mapping of previously unmapped or
inadequately mapped areas, and publish professional quality packages of new
as well as existing, but previously unavailable, data and maps.
Subcomponent B.4: Geochemical Sampling (parallel financing). The activities
of the sub-component will comprise the inventory of all available
information, sample maps, analytical results, and sample material as well as
the scanning of the documents and the digitalization of the samples position,
together with the analytical results in a GIS format. This information will
be transferred to the MIS. Moreover, the sub-component shall also finance new
regional geochemical surveys to confirm areas of high mineral potential
identified during the geological mapping.
Subcomponent B.5: Seismological network (parallel financing). DNG has the
responsibility to monitor the seismic activity within the national territory
in collaboration with the surrounding countries. This monitoring will be used
for the establishment of the seismic zonation of the country and the micro-
zonation of the urban areas at risk for land use planning and the
establishment of construction norms adequate to the seismicity of the area.
Towards the end of 1998, the Council for Geosciences, with the financing of
the RSA Government and own funds, installed two seismological stations in
Mozambique. This collaboration will continue as part of the Project under
parallel financing from RSA and CGS own funds.
Subcomponent B.6: Documentation Center (parallel financing). The access to
Mozambique's geological information is difficult due to the dispersion over
different offices within DNG. The information is not centralized and some
information may be found in the regional offices. The project will support a
centralized documentation center within the DNG where all the paper documents
will be classified, indexed, and preserved.
Subcomponent B.7: Minerals Information System (MIS) (parallel financing).
Basic geological information is an essential tool for the development of
private investments in the mining sector, especially into high-risk
exploration activities. The Mineral Information System (MIS) sub-component
will finance the establishment within the DNG of a computerized information
system based on GIS technology and relational databases. The MIS shall also
provide the access to information through the Internet to customers in
Mozambique and abroad through e-commerce facilities.
- 5 -



Subcomponent B.8: Industrial Minerals Survey (parallel financing). DNG,
through the past geological investigations, accumulated an extensive
documentation on the industrial minerals and building materials potential of
the country. The present sub-component shall finance the strengthening of
the extension of services to the industrial minerals and building material
sector by the DNM and the DNG under parallel financing.
Subcomponent B.9: Rehabilitation of the geological Museum (IDA + parallel
financing). Including the rehabilitation of the building and the collections
and technical assistance for the management.
Subcomponent B.10: Reinforcement of DNG's Central Laboratory Network
(parallel financing). DNG needs a basic laboratory to process rapidly a
limited number of samples to support geological investigations. Funds will be
provided within the Project (parallel financing) to restore the elemental
analytical and sample preparation capacity of the National Laboratory
(purchase of new equipment and repair of the existing instrument).
C) Environment Management System. The general objective of this component
would be to set up a preventive environmental protection for mining. This
system should bring together the mining administration agency with MICOA and
private environment entities. It would assist in the: (i) preparation of an
environmental and social sector assessment that will help identify the
location of protected areas and areas of high value biodiversity that should
be restricted to mining activities, as well of prospective locations for the
development of mining operations where environmental baseline studies should
be carried out; (ii) definition of sector specific environmental regulations
and standards, including the procedures for the rehabilitation of the area
after mine closure; (iii) implementation of adequate procedures and
guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact studies in mining;
(iv) capacity building of MIREME's Mining Environmental Management Unit to
monitor and enforce environmental regulations; (v) preparation of socio-
economic baseline studies over selected mining districts as a basis for
development of methodology and capacity to assess and monitor social,
cultural and economic impacts of mining on local communities, and (vi)
development of consultation and participatory procedures; and (vii)
establishment of environmental management system data basis for the
environmental impacts of mining, with linkages with other relevant
environment data banks in other ministries, namely MICOA's area planning
department. MIREME's and MICOA's capabilities to deal with sector
environmental issues would be strengthened through the training of their
staff, in order to ensure that mining operations are conducted in compliance
with sound environmental practices.
D) Sustainability of Small Scale and Artisanal Mining. Artisanal and small-
scale mining activities represent an important source of direct and indirect
income for a relatively large rural population. However, such activities
usually generate a number of technical, legal, environmental and socio-
economic problems. From a regional perspective, the medium term socio-
economic balance could be negative, and costs greater than benefits, in terms
of the use of a non-renewable resource, environmental impacts, health
conditions or sustainability of economic activities when the deposits are
exhausted. Experience in other countries shows that these problems have to be
addressed by assistance programs of integral character aimed at promoting the
development of small-scale and artisanal mining on a technical, environmental
- 6 -



and social sound basis, and providing for the sustainability of these
activities. The component is intended to improve the general awareness of
small-scale and artisanal on the ways to improve their technical and
environmental performance and the overall impacts of their activity on the
local communities. It will: (i) support an integrated management and
technical assistance program to enhance technical yields, reduce the current
serious adverse impact on the environment, improve living conditions of
artisanal miners, and increase tax revenues; (ii) support the Mining
Directorate to design and deliver technical advice, geology information, and
extension services to small-scale miners, including the establishment of a
pilot training center for small scale miners; (iii) build capacity within
MIREME for the management of social issues in the sector, namely the
preparation of a generic framework for potential resettlement and
compensation, and alternatives for revenue sharing with local communities;
and (iv) health hazards campaign to improve health conditions within small
scale and artizanal miners communities.
Small scale and artisanal mining activities are often temporal occupations to
provide additional incomes for the rural populations or are subject to
massive and sudden migrations of population in response to "gold rush" or the
discovery of bonanza superficial deposits. The human settlements associated
with this activity are generally very precarious and the living conditions
close to promiscuity. This mode of life generates health hazards additional
to the risk of the mining activities themselves. As part of project
preparation under the PHRD grant, a consultant is assisting MIREME in
preparing a sector strategy for fighting HIV/AIDS. As part of present sub-
component the Project shall finance education campaigns to raise the
awareness of the population occupied in small scale and artizanal mining with
respect to health hazards and specially concerning the HIV/AIDS contagion.
The activities of the project focused on the health hazards awareness and
prevention shall be carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry of
Health and Welfare and other state or private NGOs organizations active in
the mining areas.
E) Project Coordination and Management. MIREME shall establish and maintain,
during the execution of the Project, a Mining Project Coordination Unit
(UCPM) to coordinate project implementation, and manage: (a) procurement,
including all contracting for works and purchases, and the hiring of
consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the
contractual relationship with IDA, and (d) financial record keeping, the
Special Account and disbursements. UCPM shall ensure the coordination between
the different institutions of MIREME participating in the Project as well as
other state and private institutions stakeholders in the Project's
objectives. The UCPM shall also be the direct link to the World Bank
concerning the Project implementation.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                               1.0
IBRD
IDA                                                      18.0
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FUND                                 3.5
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                  9.2
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA               1.3
Total Project Cost                                      33.0
-7-



6. Implementation
Project Implementation Period
The proposed project would be implemented over a period of 5 years. Project
completion date would be December 31, 2005 and the Credit closing date would
be June 30, 2006
Project coordination and oversight
The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MIREME) would be responsible
for the implementation of the project.
Executing agency
The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MIREME) , through an officially
designated coordinator, will be responsible for the overall implementation of
the project.
Implementation arrangements
MIREME will create a Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) to coordinate
project implementation, and manage : (a) procurement - including all
contracting for works and purchases - and the hiring of consultants, (b)
project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual
relationship with IDA, and (d) financial management, the Special Account and
disbursements. MIREME has prepared a Project Implementation Manual that has
been reviewed by the Bank during appraisal and found satisfactory.
Government will hire three senior-level staff for the UCPM: a Project
Coordinator, a Procurement Expert (and Acting Project Coordinator), and an
Accountant. The first two positions have been advertised during project
preparation, using terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. A Steering
Committee will be created at the Minister's level, as part of MIREME's
structure, to supervise project implementation. It will be composed of the
following members : MIREME's Director of Economy, the Director of Geology,
the Director of Mines, and two Advisors, one representative from MICOA (Head
of Environment Impact Assessment Department), and the Supervisor of the
Geologic Infrastructure component.
Co-financing arrangements
The Nordic Development Fund has approved funding for activities included in
the project to an extent of US$ 9.2 million, while the Government of the
Republic of South Africa has agreed to commit support to planned activities
to an amount of US$ 1.3 million. Arrangements are being made to secure
parallel financing by the African Development Bank with a view of obtaining
US$ 3.5 million.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
Under the supervision of the Project Coordinator, the UCPM will be
responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures
will be acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating
Partners. The principal objective of the UCPM's financial management system
(FMS) will be to support management in their deployment of limited resources
with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the
delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the
needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of
producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information
that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the
Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the UCPM to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS will be
developed in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented
in Annex 11. Salient features of the Action Plan include: the retention of a
Financial Management Consultant to advise on the selection and installation
of the Project's FMS (using an integrated accounts package), to prepare the
Project's Financial Procedures Manual and to train staff in the operation of
- 8 -



the system; the establishment of a representative Financial Management
Committee; the recruitment of a Project Accountant and the availability of
support staff; capacity building; the establishment of a Fixed Assets
Register and a Contracts Register; monthly bank reconciliation and quarterly
reporting of financial information; cash flow management including variance
analysis; and an annual external audit will be undertaken on terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
By credit effectiveness, the UCPM will not have in place a FMS that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information as
required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements i.e. the Project Management
Report (PMR). Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as
outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e. Direct
Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments.    However, the successful
implementation of the Project's FMS under the supervision of the Project
Accountant should facilitate the conversion to PMR-based disbursements within
18 months of credit effectiveness. In that regard, an institutional capacity
assessment of the UCPM tream and the FMS proposed will be conducted by a
World Bank Financial Management Specialist before effectiveness, and a
financial management review of the Project will be undertaken by a World Bank
Financial Management Specialist within 12 months of credit effectiveness to
assess progress.
Supervision, Reviews and Monitoring
Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the UCPM will submit to the IDA
quarterly progress reports covering all project activities, including
procurement, and a financial summary report. A Mid-Term Review, 30 months
after effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of implementation
progress towards development objectives, including performance to date on
selected indicators of project benefits. Baseline data on these indicators
will be gathered prior to this mid-term review and used in the assessment.
7. Sustainability
The project will contribute to the institutional strengthening of the
Government of Mozambique to manage key areas in the mining sector (policy,
institutional, environmental, social), through a set of prerequisite steps
that will lay the ground for future private investment and whose
implementation will provide a sound basis for Mozambique in exploiting, over
the long term and in a developmentally sound manner, the significant
potential of its natural resources. Sustainability will be enhanced through
the project's strong emphasis on institution building, training, human
capital development and environmental awareness in the public as well as
private sectors.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons have been learned from the ongoing projects being implemented in
Mozambique, from other countries where the Bank has financed similar capacity
building operations for mining (e.g., Burkina Faso, Ghana, Guinea,
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, and Tanzania), as well as from a Bank review on
mining sector reform in Latin America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America
and the Caribbean, 1996).
Experience in Mozambique with capacity building and public sector reform
suggests that emphasis on beneficiary participation in project preparation,
intensive supervision, organization and coordination in the field are
critical for timely and effective implementation. Given the limited
availability of highly skilled staff, ownership and political commitment to
-9-



project objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership, availability
of counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial authority and
responsibilities.
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling
environment increases the ability of a country to attract and retain
appropriate private investment. The last 25 years have seen significant
changes in the international mining industry, in large measure because of the
liberalization of economic and mining policies of previously restrictive
governments in mining countries. These reforms have had three broad
objectives, to improve sector performance and growth and the contribution of
mining to the national economies, to ensure the sustainability of the mining
industries in the developing countries, and to ensure that the host countries
get a fair share from the benefits of growth of the sector.
In the context of a generally healthy metal commodity price scenario, the
result has been an upsurge in mining investment in those countries which have
adopted legal, institutional and taxation reforms. Between 1989 and 1997
Latin America, the region where the reform was implemented more thoroughly,
saw a four-fold increase in investment in exploration (for the countries of
the region with comprehensive reform programs the increase was twelve-fold)
while the world total increased by 90%.   Furthermore, the reforming countries
have achieved progress in the economic, environmental and social aspects of
mining, thus strengthening the sustainability of the sector. Ghana provides a
similar example in Africa. In the late 1980s the country undertook
significant reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the
enabling environment for private sector investment in mining. The result has
been a four-fold increase in gold production, a mining investment climate
that is consistently ranked among the best in the world by investors, and the
privatization of state-owned mining enterprises.
Work Bank involvement in the reform process of successful mining countries
shows that, for this to happen, the enactment of the necessary legal, fiscal
and environmental policies and the establishment of strong mining
institutions to implement and administer them have proven to be the keys to
success. This includes: (i) a background of sensible economic policies and a
coherent general legal framework; (ii) a mining law providing security of
tenure, clarity and transparency and access to land (including the release of
reserved areas held up by the State and full transferability of concessions
to remove all barriers to the entry of investors) , and an investment
framework providing access to foreign exchange and a stable and equitable
fiscal regime; (iii) public mining institutions that apply properly the
sectoral policies; (iv) a sensible environmental management system, and (v)
clear, economically efficient rules dealing with enterprise restructuring and
privatization. Further progress will depend to a large extent on the
continued development of institutional capabilities, in an environment of
sensible macro-economic policies, to ensure the sustainability of the
progress achieved.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  N
11. Contact Point:
- 10 -



Task Manager
Paulo De Sa
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4241
Fax: 202-522-0396
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 16, 2001.
- 11 -



