Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21897-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.8 MILLION (US$18 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
MARCH 1, 2001
Mining Department (CMNPO)
Angola, Malawi, Mozambique (AFC02)
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exclhange Rate Effective November 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Metical
1000 MZM = US$0.0606
US$1 = MZM 16,500
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CENACARTA            National Centre for Mapping and Remote
Sensing
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CGS                  Council for Geoscience, Republic of South
Africa
GOM                  Government of Mozambique
DINAGECA             National  Directorate  of  Geography  and
Cadastre
DNG                  National Directorate of Geology (Geological
Survey)
DNM                  National Directorate of Mines
EIS                  Environmental Impact Statement
EMS                  Environmental Management System
FFM                  Mining Fund (Fundo de Fomento Mineiro)
GIS                  Geographical Information System
GPN                  General Procurement Notice
MCS                  Mining Cadastre System
MIS                  Minerals Information System
MICOA                Ministry of Environmental Coordination
MIREME               Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
MRMP                 Mineral  Resources  Management  Capacity
Building Project
NGO                  Non Governmental Organisation
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PMIs                 Public Mining Institutions
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
TA                   Technical Assistance
UCPM                 Mining Project Coordination Unit
Vice President:    Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. James Bond
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Paulo de Sa



MOZAMBIQUE
MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    3
2. Key performance indicators                                                       3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   14
3. Benefits and target population                                                  17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   17
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     22
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        22
2. Financial                                                                       23
3. Technical                                                                       23
4. Institutional                                                                   24
5. Environmental                                                                   25
6. Social                                                                          26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  28
2. Critical risks                                                                  28



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    29
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. Other                                                                             29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        48
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    59
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  60
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 61
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           63
Annex 11: Financial Management Action Plan                                              65
Annex 12: MIREME's reorganization of Public Mining Institutions                         69
MAP(S)
Mozambique Map IBRD 29996



MOZAMBIQUE
MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC02
Date: September 20, 1999                          Team Leader: Paulo De Sa
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans             Sector Manager/Director: James Bond
Project ID: P001808                               Sector(s): BB - Public Sector Management Adjustment,
NN - Mining & Other Extractive
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
I ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant      ]Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $18.00
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.0 - 0.5 %                            Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.00           0.00           1.00
IDA                                                             9.47           8.53         18.00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                        0.50           3.00          3.50
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA                                        0.30           1.00          1.30
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                         1.20           8.00          9.20
Total:                                                         12.47          20.53         33.00
Borrower: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF MINERAL RESOURCES AND ENERGY (MIREME)
Ministry of Mineral resources and Energy (MIREME)
National Directorate of Mines
Address: Praca 25 de Junho, P.O. Box 2904, Maputo, Mozambique
Contact Person: Estevao Rafael
Tel: 258.1.422447                Fax: 258.1.427121                Email: Epale@Mail.Tropical.Co.Mz
Other Agency(ies):
Nordic Development Fund
Address: P.O. Box 185, Fabianinkatu 34, FIN-00171 Helsinki, Finland
Contact Person: Marina Ummerus
Tel: 358.9.1800.451              Fax: 358.9.6221.491               Email: marina.unnerus@nib.fi
African Development Bank
Address: BPV 316, Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire
Contact Person: Dr. Ini J. Urua
Tel: 225 20 20 52 50             Fax: 225 20 20 49 02               Email: u.ini@afdb.org
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):



FY      1 _2001      2002       2003      2004      2005       2006
Annual     0.40      1.50      3.50 1     5.10      6.80      0.70
Cumulative    0.40       1.90       5.40     10.50     17.30     18.00
Project implementation period: January 2001-December 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 06/15/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
ACS PAD FCIIII' Fl~ M. iO2
- 2-



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Almex 1)
The overall objective of the proposed Mineral Resources Management Capacity Building Project (MRMP)
is to provide technical assistance to the Government of Mozambique (GOM) for: (i) institutional
development and regulatory reform designed to encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in
a socially and environmentally sound way; and (ii) targeted interventions to alleviate poverty in areas of
strong incidence of small-scale and artisanal mining. Specific project objectives include: (a) improving the
legal and regulatory reform to help establish an enabling environment to promote private investment into
mining, while ensuring real and sustainable contribution to economic growth; (b) institutional capacity
building to develop capabilities to effectively enforce laws and regulations, administer mining titles, and
monitor the sustainable development of small-scale mining; (c) development of a data bank and geological
maps to strengthen the Government's capacity to make essential geoscientific and natural resources
information available to potential investors; (d) institutional strengthening to establish capacity in the
country for environmental management, and to develop the understanding of and the capacity to address
social impacts from mining; and (e) identify and adopt appropriate mechanisms to increase revenues and
improve the quality of life in selected areas of strong concentration of artisanal miners, through the
establishment of legal rights for their activity and the provision of extension services to improve the social,
welfare, health and environmental conditions of artisanal miners.
The project has been designed to provide a learning experience for the country, the Bank, and investors
with respect to implementing sector reform and attracting private sector investment into the country.
Learning will relate to the process of negotiating contracts, including interface between public and private
sectors and communities; dealing with foreign investors, meeting investor needs; understanding cross-sector
dynamics in the context of regional development; establishing effective inter-relationships with environment
agencies; and conducting baseline environmental studies and social assessments prior to introducing mining
operations in an area.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
I) Increase Private Investment, exports and fiscal revenues:
(a) Increase in the number of private operators involved in mining.
(b) Increase in average annual investments in mining.
(c) Increase in average annual minerals exports.
(d) Increase fiscal revenues from mining.
Principal output indicators:
The number of private operators actively involved in exploration, is expected to increase from the
current 10 to about 20-30 over the next five years, resulting in an increase of annual investment
expenditures from about US$ 10 million today to US$ 40-50 million. On the other hand, mineral
exports could go from US$ 7 million per year to about US$ 100-150 million per year over the next
ten years. The project will also help strengthen tax assessment and collection procedures for
statutory royalties, license fees, income, dividend, and other direct and indirect taxes. The objective
would be to increase fiscal revenues from mining to US$ 30-45 million per year by 2010.
2) Set-up of a competitive legal and regulatory framework for mining.
(a) Number of investment agreements signed at the end of the project.
Principal output indicators:
- New mining code and its regulations fully enacted 6 months after project effectiveness.
- 3 -



- At least two new mining investment agreements signed at the end of the project.
3) Set-up of a modem and efficient public mining institutions.
(a) Average number of days to issue a mining title.
(b) Number of staff trained by the project.
Principal output indicators:
- Computerized mining cadastre fully operational by mid-term review.
- At least 3 Provincial delegations of the Mining Directorate fully operational at the end of the
project
4) Set the base for the creation of an Environmental and Social Management for Mining:
(a) Interministerial coordination arrangements - namely with the Ministry of Enviromnental
Coordination (MICOA) and Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries - for the environmental management
of the sector.
(b) Number of baseline studies and environmental audits available at the end of the project.
(c) Average number of days to treat environmental applications for exploration and mining permits.
(d) Application of consultative processes by the mid-term review.
Principal output indicators:
- Environmental regulations and detailed procedures for Environmental Impact Assessments in
rnining jointly issued with MICOA 6 months after effectiveness.
- Environmental baseline database fully operational at the end of the project.
- Interface of the sector's databases with the corresponding databases available in other ministries
(MICOA, DINAGECA. etc.).
- 2 investment projects having adopted consultative procedures at the end of the project.
5) Improve Geological and Mining Information System.
(a) number of linear kilometers covered by new geophysics airborne survey.
(b) number of geological maps published.
(c) number of geochemical analysis done.
Principal output indicators:
- Complete coverage of the areas with strong mineral potential with geophysics maps.
- Complete coverage of the areas with strong mineral potential with geological maps at the
1:250,000 scale.
- Geoscientific database fully operational at the end of the project.
6) Poverty alleviation in small-scale and artisanal mining areas:
(a) Number of artisanal miners legally registered.
(b) Increase in the declared production in legally-established artisanal mining areas.
(c) Decrease in the number of declared diseases among the affected population.
Principal output indicators:
- At least 3 social assessments produced on artisanal mining areas.
- At least 3 environmental audits produced on artisanal mining areas.
- HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns conducted in at least 3 artisanal mining areas.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: IDAIR/2000-76 (IFC/R-2000-80)        Date of latest CAS discussion:
06/01/2000
-4 -



CAS is the support to the Government's program for poverty reduction through the promotion of rapid,
broad-based private-sector led growth. The proposed project supports this goal as it is aimed at promoting
and facilitating foreign as well as domestic investment into a high potential growth sector in Mozambique,
through the creation of a business-friendly environment.
The Government of Mozambique's development strategy and its emerging Poverty Reduction Strategy, as
stated in its interim PRSP, is based on environmentally sustainable and inclusive private sector growth. Its
include efforts to increase economic opportunities by: (i) generating poverty-reducing and
employment-creating growth through the private sector; (ii) improve govemance and empowerment,
through a more effective public sector, improved rule of law, and greater transparency and accountability;
(iii) improve human capabilities, particularly through the development of social services; and (iv) improve
the security and protect the rights of Mozambicans.
Mozambique includes a variety of natural resources which, if sustainably managed, can provide a good
basis for growth. Tourism, mining, agroprocessing, and light manufacturing have been identified in the
CAS as sectors with significant growth prospects that can generate substantial employment. Large
investments exploiting the transportation corridors or exporting energy (gas, coal or electricity) or
energy-intensive manufac4ured products (iron, steel, aluminum and titanium) are under active consideration
by large intemational companies. The challenge will be to develop linkages, especially to the growing
service sector, to maximize the benefits for the poor, primarily through spin-off effects, such as employee
training, connected infrastructure developments, and improved Goveniment tax revenues that can
subsequently be channeled into poverty-reducing activities.
To promote growth and poverty reduction in Mozambique, the Government aims to create an environment
which will enable the private sector to expand its activities and generate employment, especially among the
rural poor. But public administration remains weak, despite significant reform and improvement, and faces
challenges of capacity and resources to deliver basic infrastructure and services and to properly enforce a
consistent legal and regulatory framework essential for private sector development.
The proposed project will also contribute to institutional and capacity building efforts and the development
of human resources in Mozambique, supporting public sector reform and decentralization, facilitating
Mozambican participation in the private sector, and promoting AIDS awareness and prevention in areas of
strong concentration of small-scale mining.  It would contribute to generate income-generating
opportunities in regions where mining is one of the few feasible economic options, optimizing the benefits
from mining activities to local communities either at the mine sites or within the region.
The proposed project is being designed in a way to strengthen development partnerships, including the
Bank Group/Government partnership, mobilizing resources and coordinating aid from several donors, and
ensuring adequate coordination within the Bank Group. It has been included in the proposed lending for
2001 in the new CAS.
Given a conducive environment, Mozambique's mineral resources could be developed in an efficient,
sustainable and environmentally sound manner, and they could contribute to foreign exchange earnings, tax
revenues and employment. Based on the announced investments for industrial minerals, gold and
gemstones, it is possible to anticipate the doubling of the current mining production over the next five
years, to about US$ 13 million per year. The development of the two heavy mineral sands and the tantalum
projects currently under evaluation, and the rehabilitation of the Moatize coal fields, would represent
potential long tern export revenues of US$ 150 million per year by 2005, and more than US$ 500 million
- 5 -



per year by 2010.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Mozambique has a favorable geologic environment for mining but the impact of mining on the economy is
still very small: less than 0.25% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and about 1.4% of exports (1997).
The value of Mozambique's mineral production rose from virtually nil in 1990 to around the US$ 7.0 in
1998, of which about US$ 6.0 million comes from industrial minerals and construction materials, and US$
1.0 million from gold and gemstones. However, most of the activity in gold and gemstones stills takes
place in the informal sector. The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MIREME) estimates that
about US$ 10 million of gold and US$ 30 to 40 million of semi-precious stones are illegally exported from
Mozambique each year. Annual fiscal revenues arising directly from mining (including surface rental fees
for exploration) represent about US$ I million.
The Government of Mozambique is actively seeking to attract private and foreign investment to promote
growth in the sector. The sector policy approved on February 1998 by the Council of Ministers clearly
defines Government's role as a regulator, promoter, facilitator and supervisor of mining activity, leaving the
operational and implementation role to the private sector. Because of the country's geological potential and
Government's pragmatic approach to the implementation of the sector policy, investors have shown positive
interest in terms of exploration. However, foreign investment in mining projects has yet to materialize.
The joint MIREME/World Bank report "Mining Sector Policy Review", part of the country's Economic
and Sector Work for FY 1999, identified four major constraints for the development of the sector:
insufficient geological information available on the country, a deficient legal and regulatory framework,
lack of capacity of government institutions in the sector, and lack of infrastructure.
The conclusions of these reports have been discussed in the Mining Policy Dialogue Seminar "Policy and
Strategies for Mining Development in Mozambique: Attracting Foreign Investment into mining" held in
Maputo in July 1999 and funded with an IDF Grant. Four key issues requiring immediate action have been
identified in the seminar : (i) Introduce a new mining code to bring Mozambique into line with
contemporary international mining legislation; (ii) Improve inter-ministerial co-ordination and build
capacity for efficient and effective administration in the relevant government agencies; (iii) Collect, process
and make available the geoscientific data currently available in Mozambique; and (iv) Simplify and
standardize procedures for granting mining titles, and create a separate unit for their administration.
Other issues that have been identified in the Mining Sector Policy Review for Mozambique include: (i)
Current barriers for mineral exploration by large mining companies have to be reduced, so that
Mozambique can attract the annual flow of US$ 50-100 mnillion in exploration investments needed to
develop the sector; (ii) The focus of overall mining taxation should be shifted towards profit-related taxes
and away from royalties; (iii) Transparency and security for investors should be improved by the
introduction of standard mining agreements with stability clauses and automatic incentives, reducing to the
maximum extent possible the derogation to the common regime subject to case-by-case negotiation; (iv)
Public mining institutions need equipment, financial resources, and qualified and trained staff, in order to
fulfill their mandates and enforce the law; (v) Capacity building for mining institutions has to be integrated
in a broader framework of coordination among govermmental institutions, through initiates like the creation
of shared information systems (such as GIS based information systems); (vi) Mozambique needs carefully
designed environmental protection regulations and procedures that take into account the specificity of
mining along the different phases of the investment cycle. (vii) There is a need to clearly define the
respective mandates and competence of the Ministry of Environmental Coordination (M[COA) and
MIREME in the draft environmental regulations that have been prepared for mining. MIREME should also
- 6 -



develop its capacity for the enforcement of environmental regulations, baseline studies, social assessments,
public consultation, as well as the environmental problems and challenges related to small-scale mining, for
which the dissemination of international best practices could be particularly useful; and (viii) Innovative
solutions for private sector involvement on the financing of infrastructure need to be developed.
Agriculture, fisheries, mining and tourism --- activities based on exploiting the environment - contribute
about 45 percent of GDP and 70 percent of total exports. Ensuring that resource exploitation is
sustainable is critical to long-term prospects for growth and poverty reduction in Mozambique. Although
Government policy in this area is fluid and capacity limited, there is general movement towards integrating
environmental aspects into all major policies and strategies, implementing programs for environmental
management, and subjecting major economic activities to environmental impact studies. The project will
contribute to key Government objectives of increasing capacity to ensure that regulations are properly
implemented, formulating cross-sectoral approaches, and encouraging environmentally and socially
sustainable private sector investment.
Once the enabling environment to attract private sector investment is in place, the challenge for the
Government will be to promote the mobilization of internal savings and domestic entrepreneurship to the
rational exploitation of mineral resources. In order to facilitate that, the Project will develop links with
IDA's recently approved Private Enterprise Development project (PODE) to expose local mining SMEs to
best-practice business techniques, management systems, and technological innovations. The Project will
also facilitate links with IFC support facilities, including the Africa Project Development Facility and the
Africa Management Services Company, as well as consultancy-led assistance to improve the
competitiveness of the Mozambican mining industry.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed intervention would try to address the following issues:
(a) Reform of the Legal and Regulatory framework. The Government of Mozambique has been extremely
pragmatic in adapting the (deficient) regulatory framework to accommodate the specific needs of private
investors. Oil, gas and mming have enjoyed specific regimes that allow for great flexibility during
negotiations. This explains the (relative) success obtained so far in attracting foreign investment. The
current approach has however limits. In order to establish an enabling environment to attract private
investments on a sustainable basis, Government realized that it can not continue the reform process on a
piecemeal basis and has agreed to prepare a standard framework for private investment in mining that
would be applicable to all cases. This framework should be as close as possible as the normal investment
regime for other sectors, while remaining attractive to private investors. On the aftermath of the Policy
Dialogue seminar of July 1999 in Maputo, an agreement was reached with Government for a strong,
comprehensive and systematic approach, leading to a complete update of the mining code. preparation of
the new legislation has started under the PHRD Grant with the assistance of international experts. This
includes the preparation of environmental regulations for mining to be jointly published and enforced by
MIREME and MICOA.
(b) Institutional capacity building to improve Government's capabilities to effectively manage the
development of the country's mineral resources, in a way to ensure sustainable contribution to economic
growth. The objective is to strengthen the Government's capacity to act as a facilitator and regulator of
mining activities through the creation of modern client-driven, results-oriented public mining institutions on
a deconcentrated basis. At present, the institutions in charge of the sector are deficient in their level of
expertise and capabilities, and do not have adequate equipment to undertake their activities. The proposed
- 7 -



project would assist in the re-organization of these institutions, in the definition of clear rnandates for each
of them, and the provision of human and financial resources in order to allow them to: (i) enforce laws and
regulations; (ii) administer mining titles (iii) establish and maintain a data bank and geological maps to
make essential geoscientific and natural resources information available to potential investors; (iv) promote
private investment in the sector; (v) promote and enforce environmental management systems for mining;
(vi) promote the sustainable development of small-scale mining as an economic alternative in rural areas of
high unemployment; and (vii) establish capacity in the country to identify and address social impacts from
mining. The project will also support the decentralization and deconcentration of the public mining
institutions away from Maputo and into four inter-regional focus point : Nampula, Tete, Niassa and
Manica.
(c) Targeted interventions to alleviate poverty and monitor the sustainable development of small-scale and
artisanal minin : Government has recognized small-scale mining's potential contribution to economic
growth and employment, especially in rural areas. Artisanal mining, because of its intensive use of
manpower, provides one of the few forms of self-employment and income generation in the rural areas,
providing seasonal occupation to as much as one third of the active population. Currently, more than
50,000 small-scale and artisanal miners are estimated to be active in the country, and the involvement of
children and women is growing larger. Although the development of small-scale mining activities could
represent a rapid increase in disposable income in the affected areas, they do not represent a model for the
sustainable management of mineral resources in Mozambique, as they often produce very serious
environmental impacts and potential conflicts with land users. Government efforts to develop the sector
have not produced the expected results, partially because a Mining Development Fund, established in 1988
to assist the development of small-scale mining in a variety of ways, has not been operations satisfactorily.
Government intervention should focus on improving living conditions and reducing environmental damage
in contained areas.
Because foreign investment will not materialize unless MIREME is able to efficiently administer and
manage the sector, a strategic decision was taken to use an integrated approach to sector reform.
Experience in other countries of the region like Mali, Burkina Faso and Tanzania as well as countries in
LAC suggests that a stand-alone Technical Assistance operation can be an effective way to implement
lasting mining sector reform. The Bank presently has nine Mining TA operations all of which are rated
satisfactory.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A) Institutional Reform and Capacity Building of public mining institutions. The project would assist
in: (i) strengthening the policy making, regulatory and sector management capabilities in MIREME; (ii)
rationalizing the role of the State from being an owner and operator of mining assets to a regulator and
administrator by reducing State involvement in exploration and mining by allowing and promoting private
sector participation; (iii) finalizing the implementation of an enabling legal and regulatory framework aimed
at promoting private mining enterprises; and (iv) restructuring and modernizing of the National Directorate
of Mining (DNM) and the National Directorate of Geology (DNG), based on the redefinition of their
mandates and intemal procedures, in order to transform them into a sector promotion tool providing a good
base for the provision of sound geological information; (v) deconcentrating DNM and DNG away from
Maputo, into four inter-regional points (Nampula, Tete, Manica and Niassa); (vi) establishing proper
computer-based cadastre and mine-reporting systems as well as explicit criteria and non-discretionary
procedures for the granting and foreclosing of mining rights; and (vii) improving capacity at MIREME to
- 8 -



attract private sector investment by allocating resources for promotional programs, and institutional
development. Main sub-components include:
Project Subcomponent A.1: Modernization of Regulatory Framework. With the assistance of a PHRD
grant, the Government of Mozambique has started to prepare the reform of the mining sector legal
framework, as part of the policy to reduce the role of the State and to create an enabling environment to
attract private investment into mining. As a result, a draft mining law and its regulations, including the
specific environmental norns and procedures applicable to mining, are currently under preparation. There
is now a need to enlarge the participation and build ownership of the different stakeholders on the reform
agenda, and reinforce the Govenmment's capacity to negotiate mining investment agreements for large
projects with the private sector.
Subcomponent A.2: Institutional Reforn/Capacity Building. The broad institutional framework for the
institutional reform has been defined during project preparation. The new institutional framework aims at
defining better the functions of the public mining agencies, and as part of the policy to reduce the role of the
State and to adapt public mining agencies to better-defined functions, eliminating most of their past
widespread overlapping and modernizing their capacity to administer the sector. The respective role of
such agencies and of the private sector and their inter-relationships will be identified. Some of their
functions will be deconcentrated to the Provinces. As a result, a detailed institutional model and
implementation plan will be designed and implemented.
Subcoimponent A.3: Mining Cadastre and Registry System. A priority objective of the Government's policy
for the mining sector is to establish a well-informed, uniform and interactive cadastral system. Based on the
audit carried out under project preparation, the proposed Project will finance the transformation of the
physical registries of the Mining Directorate into a proper mining cadastre. The cadastre will provide
reliable information about the precise location of mining rights in the territory. The procedures required in
order to apply the cadastre process will be transparent, public, of general application and
non-discretionary.
Subcomonent A.: Investment Promotion. The promotion of private investments in the mining sector for
the development of the mineral resources of Mozambique constitutes one of the main objectives of the
Project. This sub-component will finance the establishment of a promotion unit within the DNM, training
of the staff, preparation and publication of promotional material as well as the assistance of MlREME's
and DNM staff to international congresses and mining events.
Subcomponent A.5: Intranet Network. The availability of accurate and timely infornation is essential for
the administration of the mining sector, the definition of the mining policy and the follow up of the impact
of such policy and the enacted legal framework on the sector issues. Information is the major tool for
MIREME in regulating the sector and promoting its growth through private investments. The Project shall
finance the establishment of several information systems - Mining Cadastre System (MCS), Mineral
Information System (MIS) and Environmental Management System (EMS) - to ensure the proper
collection, storage and retrieval of the sector information.
B) Development of the Country's Geological Infrastructure. The main objective of this component is to
provide the basic and reliable geological information necessary to facilitate the promotion of private
investments in the mining sector and to support the planning of the social-economical development of the
country. The actual coverage of geological and geophysical surveys in Mozambique is relatively extensive
because of investigations realized during the colonial time and a major effort made after independence in
the eighties. However, the major part of the maps and the data have not been published and are under a
-9-



the eighties. However, the major part of the maps and the data have not been published and are under a
great risk of dispersion and loss. Moreover, recent geological maps to a large extend are based on remote
sensing with restricted fieldwork and thus are not sufficiently reliable for mineral exploration. The use of
the geological information is not limited to the mining sector but also forms the base for the planning of the
development of the infrastructure (roads, etc.), land use planning, urban development, and the management
of the environmental resources. Therefore, the production of the geological infrastructure is an integral part
of the social and economical development of the country.
in order to achieve this goal, the component would: (i) complete the regional airborne geophysical coverage
of the country, and finance a denser coverage over selected promising areas; (ii) update and improve of the
existing coverage of geological maps at 1:250.000 scale, and support the detailed coverage of selected
areas of high mineral potential; (iii) compile the existing geochemical survey data, including the re-analysis
of existing samples and some complementary sampling; (iv) strengthen the network of seismic stations to
monitor the seismic activity of the country; (v) establish a modem and computerized Minerals Information
System (MIS), to compile and catalogue dispersed data, and modernize and improve DNG's documentation
center; (vi) conduct an inventory of industrial minerals and construction materials in Mozambique in order
to promote investment opportunities to the local private sector; and (vii) strengthen the National Museum
of Geology; and the Central Laboratory of the DNG. Main sub-components include:
Subcomponent B.1: Component Supervision and Coordination: Considering the highly specialized technical
activities to be carried out within the present component, external assistance will be necessary for the
coordination and supervision of the works and consulting services in order to minimize the technical
contingencies that used to arise from such activities. The Project will finance under a "twinning"
arrangement the engagement of a foreign geological survey ("supervisor") with the experience in
contracting geophysical airbome surveys, geological mapping and in the establishment and operation of
mineral information systems. The supervisor shall oversee the work, coordinate the different consulting
firms and contractors engaged for the execution of the component, evaluate the product's quality and advise
the DNG in case of problems.
Subcononent B.2: Geophysics Airbore Survey fparallel financing). The objective of the Geophysics
Airbome Survey is to efficiently furnish essential geological information of public domain to private
investors. The Project will finance (parallel financing) the completion of the airbome geophysical coverage
in the southern part of Mozambique along the Zimbabwe border as well as higher density surveys in
selected areas of high mineral potential of the northem part of the country. The parallel finance shall also
finance the compilation and treatment of the data from the previous airbome geophysical surveys including
the digitalization of the analogical records whenever their quality justifies the operation.
Subcomponent B.3: Geological Mapping of Mozambique (parallel financing) Mozambique posseses an
extensive coverage of geological maps. However, almost all the maps present disconformities at the
boundaries with the lack of continuity of the geological formations from one map to another. The entire
mapping carried out in the past has to be revised, updated and homogenized regarding the stratigraphy and
regional structures. The previous mapping programs generated a large amount of documents (maps,
reports, laboratory results and samples) that are under the risk of dispersion or loss due to inadequate
infrastructure and cataloguing. Therefore, it is urgent to compile, scan and catalogue this information for
its preservation. This program would support geological mapping of previously unmapped or inadequately
mapped areas, and publish professional quality packages of new as well as existing, but previously
unavailable, data and maps.
Subcomponent B.4: Geochemical Sampling (parallel financing). The activities of the sub-component will
- 10 -



well as the scanning of the documents and the digitalization of the samples position, together with the
analytical results in a GIS format. This information will be transferred to the MIS. Moreover, the
sub-component shall also finance new regional geochemical surveys to confirn  areas of high mineral
potential identified during the geological mapping.
Subcomponent B.5: Seismological network (parallel financing). DNG has the responsibility to monitor the
seismic activity within the national territory in collaboration with the surrounding countries. This
monitoring will be used for the establishment of the seismic zonation of the country and the micro-zonation
of the urban areas at risk for land use planning and the establishment of construction norms adequate to the
seismicity of the area. Towards the end of 1998, the Council for Geosciences, with the financing of the
RSA Government and own funds, installed two seismological stations in Mozambique. This collaboration
will continue as part of the Project under parallel financing from RSA and CGS own funds.
Subcomponent B.6: Documentation Center (parallel financing). The access to Mozambique's geological
information is difficult due to the dispersion over different offices within DNG. The information is not
centralized and some information may be found in the regional offices. The project will support a
centralized documentation center within the DNG where all the paper documents will be classified, indexed,
and preserved.
Subcomponent B.7: Minerals Information Svstem (MIS) (parallel financing). Basic geological information
is an essential tool for the development of private investments in the mining sector, especially into high-risk
exploration activities. The Mineral Information System (MIS) sub-component will finance the
establishment within the DNG of a computerized information system based on GIS technology and
relational databases. The MIS shall also provide the access to information through the Intemet to
customers in Mozambique and abroad through e-commerce facilities.
Subcomponent B.8: Industrial Minerals Survey (parallel financing). DNG, through the past geological
investigations, accumulated an extensive documentation on the industrial minerals and building materials
potential of the country. The present sub-component shall finance the strengthening of the extension of
services to the industrial minerals and building material sector by the DNM and the DNG under parallel
financing.
Subcomonent B.9: Rehabilitation of the Geological Museum (IDA + parallel fiancing). Including the
rehabilitation of the building and the collections and technical assistance for the management
Subcomponent B.10: Reinforcement of DNG's Central Laboratory Network (parallel fmancing). DNG
needs a basic laboratory to process rapidly a limited number of samples to support geological
investigations. Funds will be provided within the Project (parallel fnancing) to restore the elemental
analytical and sample preparation capacity of the National Laboratory (purchase of new equipment and
repair of the existing instrument).
C) Environment Management System. The general objective of this component would be to set up a
preventive environmental protection for mining. This system should bring together the mining
admninistration agency with MICOA and private environment entities. It would assist in the: (i) preparation
of an environmental and social sector assessment that will help identify the location of protected areas and
areas of high value biodiversity that should be restricted to mining activities, as well of prospective
locations for the development of mining operations where environmental baseline studies should be carried
out; (ii) definition of sector specific environmental regulations and standards, including the procedures for
the rehabilitation of the area after mine closure; (iii) implementation of adequate procedures and guidelines
- 11 -



for the preparation of environmental impact studies in mining; (iv) capacity building of MIREME's Mining
Environmental Management Unit to monitor and enforce environmental regulations; (v) preparation of
socio-economic baseline studies over selected mining districts as a basis for development of methodology
and capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and economic impacts of mining on local communities,
and (vi) development of consultation and participatory procedures; and (vii) establishment of environmental
management system data basis for the environmental impacts of mining, with linkages with other relevant
environment data banks in other ministries, namely MICOA's area planning departnent. MIREME's and
MICOA's capabilities to deal with sector environmental issues would be strengthened through the training
of their staff, in order to ensure that mining operations are conducted in compliance with sound
environmental practices.
D) Sustainability of Small Scale and Artisanal Mining. Artisanal and small-scale mining activities
represent an important source of direct and indirect income for a relatively large rural population.
However, such activities usually generate a number of technical, legal, environmental and socio-economic
problems. From a regional perspective, the mediuum term socio-economic balance could be negative, and
costs greater than benefits, in terms of the use of a non-renewable resource, environmental impacts, health
conditions or sustainability of economic activities when the deposits are exhausted. Experience in other
countries shows that these problems have to be addressed by assistance programs of integral character
aimed at promoting the development of small-scale and artisanal mining on a technical, environmental and
social sound basis, and providing for the sustainability of these activities. The component is intended to
improve the general awareness of small-scale and artisanal on the ways to improve their technical and
environmental performance and the overall impacts of their activity on the local communities. It will: (i)
support an integrated management and technical assistance program to enhance technical yields, reduce the
current serious adverse impact on the environment, improve living conditions of artisanal miners, and
increase tax revenues; (ii) support the Mining Directorate to design and deliver technical advice, geology
information, and extension services to small-scale miners, including the establishment of a pilot training
center for small scale miners; (iii) build capacity within MIREME for the management of social issues in
the sector, namely the preparation of a generic framework for potential resettlement and compensation, and
altematives for revenue sharing with local communities; and (iv) health hazards campaign to improve
health conditions within small scale and artizanal miners communities.
Small scale and artisanal mining activities are often temporal occupations to provide additional incomes for
the rural populations or are subject to massive and sudden migrations of population in response to "gold
rush" or the discovery of bonanza superficial deposits. The human settlements associated with this activity
are generally very precarious and the living conditions close to promiscuity. This mode of life generates
health hazards additional to the risk of the mining activities themselves. As part of project preparation
under the PHRD grant, a consultant is assisting MIREME in preparing a sector strategy for fighting
HIV/AIDS. As part of present sub-component the Project shall finance education campaigns to raise the
awareness of the population occupied in small scale and artizanal mining with respect to health hazards and
specially conceming the HIV/AIDS contagion. The activities of the project focused on the health hazards
awareness and prevention shall be carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare
and other state or private NGOs organizations active in the mining areas.
E) Project Coordination and Management. MIREME shall establish and maintain, during the execution
of the Project, a Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) to coordinate project implementation, and
manage: (a) procurement, including all contracting for works and purchases, and the hiring of consultants,
(b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship with IDA, and (d) financial
record keeping, the Special Account and disbursements. UCPM shall ensure the coordination between the
different institutions of MIREME participating in the Project as well as other state and private institutions
- 12 -



stakeholders in the Project's objectives like MICOA, the Association of Small scale Miners (AMPEMO),
private enterprises, and other ministries. The UCPM shall also be the direct link to the World Bank
concerning the Project implementation.
lndicatve             B*nk-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of   financing   Bank.
I________________________                          (US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
A) Institutional Reform and Capacity    Mining & Other  6.93    21.0      6.44      35.8
Building of public mining institutions   Extractive
A. 1: Modernization of Regulatory
Framework
A.2: Institutional Reform/Capacity
Building
A.3: Mining Cadastre and Registry
System
A.4: Investment Promotion
A.5: Intranet Network
B) Development of the country's   Mining & Other     18.61      56.4      4.50      25.0
Geological Infrastructure         Extractive
B. 1: Component Supervision and
Coordination
B.2: Geophysics Airborne Survey
(parallel financing)
B.3: Geological Mapping of
Mozambique (parallel financing)
B.4: Geochemical Sampling (parallel
financing)
B.5: Seismological network (parallel
financing)
B.6: Documentation Center (parallel
financing)
B.7: Minerals Information System
(MIS) (parallel financing)
B.8: Industrial Minerals Survey
(parallel financing)
B.9: National Museum of Geology
B.10: Reinforcement of DNG's Central
Laboratory (parallel financing)
C) Environment Management System                      2.35       7.1      2.28       12.7
D) Sustainability of Small Scale and                  2.20       6.7      2.04       11.3
Artisanal Mining
E) Project Management and                             1.91       5.8       1.74       9.7
Coordination
Contingencies                                         1.00       3.0       1.00       5.6
Total Project Costs                 33.00     100.0      18.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                   33.00     100.0     18.00     100.0
-13 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
By reducing the discretionary power of Government, increasing transparency, and improving security to
potential investors, the new Mining Code is expected to provide the adequate legislative framework for
regulating and monitoring activities in the sector, and to make a major contribution to attract foreign
investments into mining. Of particular importance to provide a sense of security for potential investors is
the stabilization of the legal, fiscal, and institutional arrangements prevailing at the time of the investment.
However, Government's institutional apparatus has not yet adapted to its new role of regulating economic
activities and promoting poverty reduction in a market-oriented economy. The Govemrnent is aware that
an inappropriate institutional framework, weak administrative capacity, and a civil service that is reluctant
to adopt up-to-date work practices and lacks accountability, have contributed to inefficiencies and
mismanagement of public resources, which in turn has restrained the development of a dynamic private
sector. The Government is convinced that its central objective of reducing poverty through accelerated
growth can only be accomplished through institutional and administrative reforms that refocus the role of
the State, remove inefficient and discretionary regulations, and build a strong partnership between the State
and the civil society at large.
In the case of mining, the major institutional constraints identified are: (i) absolute lack of financial
resources that prevents the Ministry from monitoring the real developments in the mining areas; (ii)
insufficiency of qualified human resources and lack of technical skills; (iii) limited availability of geologic
information, stored in poor physical conditions; (iv) excessive centralization at the manager's level and
inefficient procedures and flow of information; and (v) poor relations with other line ministries.
During project preparation, MIREME agreed on an institutional re-organization of the National Directorate
of Geology (DNG) and of the National Directorate of Mines (DNM, as a basis for the sound and
sustainable management of the mineral resources, as well as to better implement the project (see annex 12).
MIREME's new organization will be implemented under the project, including the establishment of
inter-institutional relationships and mandates, new intemal procedures, the definition of the skills profiles
required, and correspondent training programs, as well as budget requirements.
DNG wants to keep some of the functions of the traditional public service - collection of basic geoscientific
infornation, and environmental geology for other sectors (urban development, etc.) - and proposes to
re-organize under five departments : (a) Economic Geology, with 4 services : (i) metallic mineral resources;
(ii) non- metallic and industrial mineral resources; (iii) energy and water resources; and (iv) geochemical
survey; (b) Regional Geology, with 3 services: (i) geological mapping; (ii) geophysical survey; and (iii)
seismic and magnetism monitoring; (c) Applied Geology, with 3 services : (i) engineering geology; (ii)
environmental geology; and (iii) hydrogeology; (d) Geological Services, with 5 services: (i) cartography,
GIS & remote sensing; (ii) MIS; (iii) Documentation; (iv) topography; and (v) Drilling services unit; and
(e) National Laboratory.
DNM proposes to re-organize under 5 vertical Departments: (a) Mining Titling Management System
(Cadastre), including two agencies in the Provinces (see below); (b) Environmental Management, to
coordinate the environmental management of the sector with MICOA; (c) Mining Safety and
Environmental Inspection, with Maputo defining programs, norms and guidelines and the Provinces
implementing them; (d) Small-scale mining, which will develop studies, programs and guidelines for
small-scale mining (to be implemented by the Provinces); and (e) Technical and Economic, in charge of
keeping the sector's economic statistics (production, investments, royalties), and centralizing and appraising
the technical reports sent by the mining companies.
Both DNG and DNM agree to give priority under the project to reinforcing the Provincial Directorates of
- 14 -



Nampula and Tete, with Manica and Niassa as second priorities. Little would be done with regards to the
other Provinces under the project. The new organization of the two Directorates plus the creation of the
Project Implementation Unit and the Steering Committee need to be done by specific diplomas, approved by
Council of Ministers. Both Directorates have prepared a preliminary plan for the allocation of existing
human resources to project activities. This plan includes training requirements of staff, material and
equipment needs, as well as the type and number of national consultants that should be associated to
project implementation to reinforce the Ministry's teams.
The Mining Fund (Fundo de Fomento Mineiro FFM), established in 1988 to assist the development of
small-scale and artisanal mining, will also be reorganized. The Mining Fund receives 25% of the mining
license fees and royalty, and its budget amounted to less than US$ 400,000 in 1999. The Fund supports
the small scale miners in a variety of ways including geological work to identify suitable areas for such
mining, organizing gold buying centers in different locations (such as Niassa, Manica, and Tete) and
providing technical advice and financial assistance (loans) to small-scale miners. While such assistance is
well intended, its implementation has not been conducted in a transparent manner. Management
representatives, having become recently mining operators, following the privatization of a state-owned
enterprise active in the sector, are now put in a position of potential conflict of interest. In the Bank's
opinion, the justification for some of these activities has not been clearly established, nor the rationale for
having these activities implemented by a separate organization from the National Directorate of Mines.
Although some of the opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect the position of the Government of
Mozambique, agreement has been reached with the Bank on the basic principles for the restructuring and
redefinition of the activities of the Fund as a condition for Board Presentation of the Project.
Based on what is already happening in the case of the Roads Fund, the Fund should have its own
independent Board, expanded to representatives of the private sector and the civil society. The Board would
be in charge of defining policies and programs, approving budgets and financial statements, setting
performance monitoring indicators and evaluating results. The Mining Fund should also have an Executive
Director employed full-time with a very small team, resorting to a Technical Committee to appraise
specific projects, and sub-contracting the essential of the field work. The Executive Director would be
chosen by the Board, the position being widely advertised. It would not be a civil servant on exercise of its
duties and its remuneration would be competitive with the private sector. The Executive Director would
implement the policies set by the Board, administer contracts, make payments and execute the budget. The
financial statements of the Fund should be submitted to external audits.
The Mining Fund should discontinue over time all commercial activities (especially gold purchases), in
order to focus more in the promotion of private investments, and in social and environmental matters. It
would not lend to the private sector although it could manage promotional programs to encourage private
investment in mining, like matching grants, promotion material, training, study tours abroad, etc. The main
purpose of the Fund's activity would be social and environmental work, and funding of social
infrastructures in mining areas. The Fund would also support programs to improve the quality of the
service of public mining institutions.
- 15 -



Another important aspect of the reform will be the introduction in the Mining Cadastre of a principle of
cost recovery for the services performed to users. The Cadastre will charge fees for the registry, and
renovation of mining licenses and will be financed through a rental surface fee to be paid by title holders in
accordance with the extension of the areas requested. These revenues will be allocated to: (i) the operation
of the Mining Cadastre; (ii) the supervision of mining operations and enforcement of the Mining Law,
including from the environmental point of view; (iii) the acquisition of new geoscientific data; and (iv)
training and seminars. It should be noted that the Geological Service could be at least partially funded from
the sale of geological data (on a cost-recovery plus small margin basis).
The successful implementation of the mining cadastre requires the development of a database of mining
licenses with their mining rights status, location, fees and dues paid, and other requirements. For this
purpose, it is necessary to use and update modem tools, such as specifically adapted Geographical
Information Systems (GIS), in order to provide a legally valid information system. Because of Dinageca's
experience in this area and its mandate to coordinate the work of the Land Information System (LIS),
MIREME will request technical assistance from Dinageca in order to ensure that the proper links between
the two data bases are properly established. On the other hand, to allow the posterior use of GPS
instruments, some technical verifications and definitions need to be carried out before the start of the
Project. Amongst these activities, the most urgent are the verification of the geodesic network precision and
the parameters for the transformation of the GPS coordinates to topographical coordinates as well as a
unique algorithm for the management of the UTM zones over the whole country. MIREME will coordinate
with Dinageca the execution of the work.
Another case in point is the establishment of environmental management system for mining in
Mozambique, coordination MICOA's and MlREME's efforts in the area. Although Mozambique is
preparing a legislative and a regulatory framework to address environmental impact assessment in mining,
the procedures for the execution of these regulations are fragmented. Furthermore, the institutions lack the
capabilities to monitor and address the environmental problems efficiently and in a timely manner, and in
particular to implement rehabilitation measures with regard to mining.
During project preparation MIREME and MICOA have agreed on their respective roles with regards to the
environmental management of the mining sector: MICOA will take charge of the definition of policies and
guidelines, while MIREME will manage the implementation and enforcement of the environmental
management system for the sector. An environmental department will be created under DNM to act as an
"one stop shop" for environmental management in the sector, providing the required links between the
mnining operators and MICOA on environmental impact assessments.
It has been also agreed that the regulations for environmental management of mining currently under
preparation will be promulgated under the form of a joint decree by MIREME and MICOA. the se
regulations will include: (i) clear definition of the specific mandates and roles of MIREME and MICOA;
(ii) formal definition of MlREMiE's role in all stages of the EIA review process, through the creation of an
Environmental Unit within the Mining Directorate and the description of its role in the proposed
regulations; (iii) detailed description of the environmental obligations concerning the mining activities that
will not be submitted to the formal EIA process (such as mineral exploration, small quarries and
small-scale mining); (iv) detailed procedures for the systematic application of participatory approaches in
the environmental licensing; (v) definition of the role of the Technical Comrnmittee for the evaluation of
ELAs, with composition, profile of the members and decision-making mechanisms; (vi) clear definition of
the joint role of MIREME and MICOA in monitoring and supervision of the regulations; (vii) definition of
the selection and funding mechanisms for the use of consultants in the review of ElAs and, eventually, in
the approval of Terms of reference; (viii) provision for grouped or regional EIAs and audits in areas of
- 16 -



small-scale mining; (ix) definition of arbitration mechanisms; and (x) clear articulation between the
procedures of environmental and mining licensing.
Finally, activity under the Small-Scale and Artisanal Mining component will be taken in coordination with
UNAIDS and with the "Rollback Malaria" initiative for the effective implementation of the HIV/AIDS
sub-component. Preparation of a first draft of the sector strategy to combat HIV/AIDS will be funded
under the PHRD Grant. Funding for wide consultation and discussion of the draft would be provided under
the project as well as prioiity actions like education and prevention.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The following benefits are expected:
(i) induced by the project: (a) Increased foreign and local direct investment in mining and increased export
revenues; (b) development of capacity in private services to the mining industry, such as exploration and
drilling services, environmental impact studies, laboratories, mining construction works and earth removal,
maintenance and others; (c) development of infrastructure related to mining and with a regional
development impact (e.g. roads, energy); (d) increased income-generating opportunities in areas of strong
incidence of artisanal mining, increased education opportunities, improved health and reduced migration
outflow; (e) contribution to a better regional distribution of productive activities; and (f) sustainable
development and fair distribution of benefits to local communities located around mining areas;
(ii) as a direct result of the project: (a) establishment of a modem, consistent and homogeneous mining
legal and regulatory framework; (b) better understanding of how Government, private sector, communities
and donors can work together dealing with foreign investors, and the contract negotiations process; (c)
improved efficiency in public mining agencies (e.g. faster and non-discretionary administration of mining
rights and improved understanding of issues involved in managing such rights), and improved enforcement
capacity of environmental, health and safety regulations; (d) improved security of tenure for mining rights
through non-discretionary procedures and accurate geological location of concessions; (e) improved
knowledge of existing en'fironmental and socio-economic conditions, as a basis for improved management
and participation of local communities; (f) protection of the environment from potential damage caused by
mining and a better grasp of how to design future environmental protection measures in the sector; and (g)
generation of baseline regional information that can be used by all sectors (e.g. water resources,
agriculture).
Target Populations and Sectors
While the proposed project will benefit the entire private (foreign and local) mining investors community, it
will also contemplate targeted actions to improve the standards of living and reduce environmental damages
in small-scale and artisanal mining areas. The proposed project will provide them technical assistance, legal
rights, security of tenure, improved access to markets, environmental and health awareness, and will
facilitate access to basic services. It will also address gender and infant labor issues in artisanal mining.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation Period
The proposed project would be implemented over a period of 5 years. Project completion date would be
December 31, 2005 and the Credit closing date would be June 30, 2006.
- 17 -



Project coordination ani oversight
The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MIREME) would be responsible for the implementation of
the project.
Executing agency
The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MIREME), through an officially designated Project
Coordination Unit (UCPM), will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project.
Implementation arrangements
MIREME will create a Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) to coordinate project implementation,
and manage : (a) procurement - including all contracting for works and purchases - and the hiring of
consultants, (b) project monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship with IDA, and
(d) financial management, the Special Account and disbursements. MIREME has prepared a Project
Implementation Manual that has been reviewed by the Bank during appraisal and found satisfactory.
Government will hire three senior-level staff for the UCPM: a Project Coordinator, a Procurement Expert
(and Acting Project Coordinator), and an Accountant. The first two positions have been advertised during
project preparation, using terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. A Steering Committee will be created
at the Minister's level, as part of MIREME's structure, to supervise project implementation. It will be
composed of the following members: MIREME's Director of Economy, the Director of Geology, the
Director of Mines, and two Advisors, one representative from MICOA (Head of Environment Impact
Assessment Department), and the Supervisor of the Geologic Infrastructure component.
Co-financing arrangemerits
Several donors have expressed interest in co-financing the project. Arrangements are being made to secure
parallel financing from the Nordic Development Fund to an extent of US$ 9.2 million, and from the African
Development Bank for an amount of US$ 3.5 million. The Government of South Africa will be
contributing with a grant of US$ 1.3 million. The parallel financing will be exclusively allocated to the
geological infrastructure component and fund self-sustained activities clearly identified. If part of the
parallel financing fails to materialize, it will not affect the project's development objectivity nor the ability
of the executing agency to implement the program of activities supported by the Bank. The UCPM will also
be in charge of the coordination of the programs funded by other donors.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
Under the supervision of the Project Coordinator, the UCPM will be responsible for ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures will be acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other
Cooperating Partners. The principal objective of the UCPM's financial management system (FMS) will be
to support management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve
the needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement,
monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the UCPM to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS will be developed in accordance with
the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 11. Salient features of the Action Plan include:
the retention of a Financial Management Consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the
Project's FMS (using an integrated accounts package), to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures
Manual and to train staff in the operation of the system; the establishment of a representative Financial
Management Committee; the recruitment of a Project Accountant and the availability of support staff,
-18 -



capacity building; the establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register; monthly bank
reconciliation and quarterly reporting of financial information; cash flow management including variance
analysis; and an annual external audit will be undertaken on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
By credit effectiveness, the UCPM will not have in place a FMS that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements i.e. the
Project Management Report (PMR). Thus, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined
in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special
Comrnitments. However, the successful implementation of the Project's FMS under the supervision of the
Project Accountant should facilitate the conversion to PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of
credit effectiveness. In that regard, an institutional capacity assessment of the UCPM tream and the FMS
proposed will be conducted by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist before effectiveness, and a
financial management review of the Project will be undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management
Specialist within 12 monthis of credit effectiveness to assess progress.
Supervision, Reviews and Monitoring
Not later than 45 days after each quarter, the UCPM will submit to the IDA quarterly progress reports
covering all project activities, including procurement, and a financial summary report. A Mid-Term
Review, 30 months after effectiveness, would provide detailed analysis of implementation progress towards
development objectives, including performance to date on selected indicators of project benefits. Baseline
data on these indicators will be gathered prior to this mid-term review and used in the assessment.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project's emphasis is put on reforming the regulatory framework and of mining sector and enhancing
management capacity of public mining institutions to implement the reform. Options which have been
considered include: (a) inclusion of mining sector reform conditionally as a part of a structural adjustment
operation, and (b) inclusion of a mining component in a larger operation to promote private sector
development in Mozambique, like the Enterprise Development Project (PoDE). Option (a) was considered
because of Government's continuous support to legal reform in the sector, but has been rejected
considering: (i) the urgent requirement for TA support for institutional strengthening in order to enforce the
new mining legislation under preparation; and (ii) that the establishment of an enabling environment to
attract private investments and of modem procedures regarding administration of mining rights and
environmental protection would generate a greater synergy effect in termns of sector development, including
for example Provinces with an important potential for small-scale mining. Option (b) has been rejected
considering: (i) that although the Enterprise Development Project has an institutional building component,
the low-level of capacity of public mining institutions in Mozambique requires careful monitoring of
implementation progress under some of the key activities in order to identify at an early stage any eventual
difficulties; and (ii) the innovative approach used for small-scale mining, through integrated programs
covering management, legal, technical, environmental and social issues; this approach is being tested in
Bank financed projects in Latin America, so far with encouraging results, but has not been applied yet in
projects in Central and Southem Africa.
Because foreign investment will not materialize unless MIREME is able to efficiently administer and
manage the sector, a strategic decision was taken to use an integrated approach to sector reform.
Experience in other countries of the region like Mali, Burkina Faso and Tanzania suggests that a
stand-alone Technical Assistance operation can be an effective way to implement lasting mining sector
- 19 -



reform.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
i __________. _________.__________   ________________________    ( Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Private Sector Development         Enterprise Development Project
Energy Sector reform               Power Sector Rehabilitation       S             S
Project
Rural Development                  Decentralized Planning and
Financing Project
Other development agencies
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Bank's assistance for mining sector reform in Mozambique started under the Mining Sector Policy Review,
a joint MIREME/World Bank report, part of the Economic and Sector Work approved under the 1998
Country Assistance Strategy. This effort helped Government identify priority technical assistance
requirements to support private sector investment in the sector. A Mining Policy Dialogue Seminar held on
July 1999 in Maputo and Nampula helped to build consensus around the reform agenda, identify priority
issues to be addressed, attract the attention of potential foreign investors, and mobilize donor's support to
mining sector reform in the country. The Bank is now responding to Government's request for assistance in
the sector with a PHRD Japanese Grant that will assist Government in project preparation.
A PHRD/Japanese grant obtained to finance technical support required by Government to prepare the
proposed project is assisting in the consolidation of the mentioned reforms in the areas of: (i) Legal and
Regulatory Reform, with the draft of a new Mining Law and its application decrees; (ii) Institutional
strengthening, developing a scope of work to create an integrated computerized information system inside
the Ministry available to private investors which would collect, store and treat all sector related data
(geological, environmental, etc.), including definition of mandates and identification of required human
resources; (iii) Mining Cadastre, implementing a computerized registry system, including the definition of
criteria and non discretionary procedures for the granting and foreclosing of mining rights; and (iv)
Environment, preparing environmental regulations for mining, and satisfactory institutional arrangements
and capabilities for environmental management, in cooperation with MICOA.
Other donors' assistance to the Government of Mozambique in mining sector reform has been limited, and
traditionally provided by UN agencies (like UNDP and UNIDO), especially in the areas of geological
information and small-scale mining, as well as by the Commonwealth Secretariat in the area of legal
reform. The European Union has recently expanded the involvement of the Center for the Development of
Industry (CDI) to a few small-scale private investments in Mozambique. UK's CDC is a shareholder on
the new African Lion Fund (a US$ 27 million African Venture Capital Vehicle for mining investment) that
is looking for opportunities in Mozambique.
- 20 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons have been learned from the ongoing projects being implemented in Mozambique, from other
countries where the Bank has financed similar capacity building operations for mining (e.g., Burkina Faso,
Ghana, Guinea, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, and Tanzania), as well as from a Bank review on mining
sector reforn in Latin America (A Mining Strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean, 1996).
Experience in Mozanbique with capacity building and public sector reform suggests that emphasis on
beneficiary participation in project preparation, intensive supervision, organization and coordination in the
field are critical for timely and effective implementation. Given the limited availability of highly skilled
staff, ownership and political commitment to project objectives are key to ensuring strong local leadership,
availability of counterpart funds, and clear delineation of ministerial authority and responsibilities.
Experience in other countries indicates that improving the enabling environment increases the ability of a
country to attract and retain appropriate private investment. The last 25 years have seen significant changes
in the intemational mining industry, in large measure because of the liberalization of economic and mining
policies of previously restrictive govemments in mining countries. These reforms have had three broad
objectives, to improve sector performance and growth and the contribution of mining to the national
economies, to ensure the sustainability of the mining industries in the developing countries, and to ensure
that the host countries get a fair share from the benefits of growth of the sector.
In the context of a generally healthy metal commodity price scenario, the result has been an upsurge in
mining investment in those countries which have adopted legal, institutional and taxation reforms. Between
1989 and 1997 Latin America, the region where the reform was implemented more thoroughly, saw a
four-fold increase in investment in exploration (for the countries of the region with comprehensive reform
programs the increase was twelve-fold) while the world total increased by 90%. Furthermore, the
reforming countries have achieved progress in the economic, environmental and social aspects of mining,
thus strengthening the sustainability of the sector. Ghana provides a similar example in Africa. In the late
1980s the country undertook significant reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the
enabling environrment for private sector investment in mining. The result has been a four-fold increase in
gold production, a mining investment climate that is consistently ranked among the best in the world by
investors, and the privatization of state-owned mining enterprises.
Work Bank involvement in the reform process of successful mining countries shows that, for this to
happen, the enactment of the necessary legal, fiscal and environmental policies and the establishment of
strong mining institutions to implement and administer them have proven to be the keys to success. This
includes: (i) a background of sensible economic policies and a coherent general legal framework; (ii) a
mining law providing security of tenure, clarity and transparency and access to land (including the release
of reserved areas held up by the State and full transferability of concessions to remove all barriers to the
entry of investors) , and an investment framework providing access to foreign exchange and a stable and
equitable fiscal regime; (iii) public mining institutions that apply properly the sectoral policies; (iv) a
sensible environmental management system, and (v) clear, economically efficient rules dealing with
enterprise restructuring and privatization. Further progress will depend to a large extent on the continued
development of institutional capabilities, in an environment of sensible macro-economic policies, to ensure
the sustainability of the progress achieved.
- 21 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Commitment of the Borrower is shown on the priority given to natural resources and the mining sector in
the overall strategy to increase growth and reduce poverty in Mozambique. At the sector level, commitrnent
can be seen in the effort put into the improvement of the legal and regulatory framework, with virtually no
support from donors, and on efforts developed to attract private sector investment into the sector. One of
the outcomes of the policy dialogue seminar was agreement reached on the continuation of sector reform,
namely through the preparation of a new Mining Code, and the reorganization of sector institutions.
Ownership: Government ownership is indicated by the seriousness of its participation in the preparation of
the project so far, including the realization of seminars and workshops dealing with in-depth analysis of
sector reforms to be supported by the project. The definition of the project scope is the result of a more
than two year long dialogue between MIREME and the Bank, and based on the planned and on-going
activities of the Ministry.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Experience in the countrv. Since 1992, Mozambique is making good use of the Bank's experience in
macroeconornic and sector reform, particularly with respect to capacity building of public institutions,
modernization of its legal and regulatory framework and privatization of state-owned enterprises. Given its
experience and established presence in the country. Bank involvement would facilitate the implementation
of the project in a timely and efficient manner and ensure that the Government maintains its focus on the
objectives of the project.
Bank's competitive advantage in rniing. The Bank has been the leading provider of assistance to mining
sector reforrn in African and Latin American countries during the last decade and in this capacity has
contributed to an upsurge in mining activities in both continents. The Bank is the only donor capable to
provide an integrated approach to the technical assistance to the given to Government for institutional
development and regulatory reform designed to encourage the expansion of private investment in mining in
a socially and environmentally sound way. Bank involvement will also be catalytic in attracting additional
funds and support from bilateral donors particularly for the implementation of the social mitigation
measures, and in providing the environment for encouraging private sector investment.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The project provides technical assistance and, as such, does not lend itself easily to quantitative investment
analysis. However, a number of economic indicators can be projected and compared with present
performances, such as amount of the annual investment for exploration by mining companies, and annual
value of exports and fiscal revenues coming from the sector. To test the robustness of the possible
contribution of mining to the economy, two scenarios (low and high case) have been constructed. The
results of this analysis, projected to the year 2005 and 2010 are:
Scenario           Gross Production       Gross Export Value        Average Annual
(US$ million)           Value                                         Investment
- 22 -



1998                     7                        1                       20
Low 2005                 70                       60                      50
Low 2010                 250                     220                      100
High 2005                150                     130                      80
High 2010                570                     520                      150
This projections might seem ambitious but worldwide the mineral resource extraction industry is emerging
from a period of consolidation and cyclical price lows. Until the late 1980's, the African continent had
failed to attract new investment in exploration or mining development. Beginning in the early 1990's this
state of affairs began tc change. Certain countries, notably Ghana as an early example, undertook
significant reforms to the mining legal and regulatory framework and to the organization of the sector. The
result has been a remarkable growth in new investment and gold production. Mining sector reform has
been since emulated by many other African countries with, in many cases, tremendously positive results.
Tanzania, after having gone through sector reforms, is now the leading designation for exploration and
mining investment in Africa. The production of gold in Mali has increased from just 1.5 metric tonnes in
1990 to nearly 20 metric tonnes in 1998. The lesson in Africa (as on other continents) is clear: mining
sector reform works.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Mineral resource extraction remains a very important source of fiscal revenue for developing countries,
provides foreign exchange export revenues, and is an important generator of employment. Moreover, in
frontier countries mining is generally the first sector to attract foreign direct investment (FDI). The
responsible use of their mineral resources provides developing countries with considerable opportunities for
poverty reduction and economic development. The formal mining industry employs a great number of
people in developing countries, and can have enormous impact on these countries' infrastructure, income.
In countries where mining is done well, the industry provides social and infrastructure services, and can
help create a lasting impact on the local and regional economy. The industry is key to local mining
communities, creating huge opportunities, but also risks regarding the environment that need to be managed
carefully.
Fiscal Impact:
Because of the existence of resource rents, minearl resources production should not be entitled to benefit
from the kind of fiscal tratment privided in free trade zones. The mining code under preparation will
introduce a fiscal regime for mining consistent with what is considered intemational best practice. The new
draft law does not contemplate investment agreements for the large-scale project providing for rather
generous tax exemptions and fiscal holidays. The impact of the tax revenues coming from the mining sector
at the end of the project can be estimated to be in the range of US$15 to 30 million per year, depending on
the scenario.
3. Technical:
The project will assist in establishing an enabling institutional and regulatory environment to help attract
- 23 -



and sustain mining investment. Expert technical assistance will help the Government to avoid mistakes in
dealing with private companies which could result in forgone revenues. The project will help strengthen tax
assessment and collection procedures for statutory royalties, license fees, income, dividend, and other direct
and indirect taxes. The project will also help put into place environmental regulations, procedures, and
monitoring capacity to minimize damage to the environment from mining operations.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The experience and skills of the sector units is limited and this is a major concern for project
implementation. There is a major need for capacity building at all levels, including project management.
The work conducted during project preparation identified a major capacity problem in terms of human
resources to implement the planned reform and technical programs. As a consequence, the project design
has incorporated a substantial provision for the hiring of external consultants (national) which will be in
charge of the implementation of specific sub-components. The project cost estimate includes a budget for
incremental operating costs in order to fund these expenses. Another problem is the overall lack of
conmmunication between MIREME and the other Ministries, namely the Ministry of Finance and the
Ministry of Environmental Coordination.
The institutional progress under the project will be monitored through intermediate output indicators and
impact indicators. Intermediate output indicators are designed to track the implementation and the expected
outcomes of the project, and have to be assessed during the lifetime of the project. Impact indicators are
designed to assess the achievement of the final objectives of the project, and their assessment should be
carried out after the closure of the operation.
The accomplishment of the final objectives will imply the achievement of a number of intermediate outputs
and conditions, including:
3 Number of months required to make the Mining Cadastre operational.
* Number of months required to make the MMI' s Environmental Unit operational.
* Average number of days required for granting a mining title.
* Backlog and number of complains of the mining Cadastre.
o   Number of maps published.
* Number of consultations to the MIS system.
* Number of Environmental Impact Assessment appraised.
* Number of pilot baseline studies prepared.
Impact indicators will refer to:
* Increase in the number of private operators involved in the different stages of the mining cycle.
* Increase in average annual investments in mining.
* Increase in average annual minerals exports.
* Increase fiscal revenues from mining
4.2 Project management:
The UCPM will be created as a new unit, but it will benefit from the experience and implementation
capacity developed under the implementation of the Bank's IDF and PHRD Grants. The UCPM will be
strengthened in terms of personnel with external experts. Terms of reference acceptable to the Bank have
been prepared for the recruitment of the Project Coordinator and the Procurement Specialist.
- 24 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
The procurement documents for the first year are ready for implementation and the procurement plan was
found realistic. Guidance will be sought from the Procurement Specialist in order to authorise a direct
contract for the supervision of the Geologic infrastructure component, following a preliminary agreement
reached between DNG and the Council for Geosciences of South Africa for the extension under the Project
of the technical assistance services being provided over the last years by the Geological Survey of South
Africa. The supervisor shall oversee the work, coordinate the different consulting firms and contractors
engaged for the execution of the component, evaluate the product's quality and advise the DNG in case of
problems.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Although the country risk is medium, the Project Risk is considered low as the following measures will be
taken from the Project's inception to establish a strong control environment: (i) Establishment of the Mining
Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) in which financial management activities will be separately identifiable
and traceable; (ii) Relevantly qualified staff will be recruited: Project Accountant and support staff; (iii)
Establishment of a Financial Management Committee that will meet quarterly to monitor the Project's
progress against financial performance indicators. Competent Project Management; (iv) Retention of a
Financial Management Consultant to advise on the selection and installation of the FMS, to prepare the
Project's Financial Procedures Manual and to train staff in the operation of the system; (v) Monthly bank
reconciliations, independently approved; (vi) Quarterly Cash Flow Management; variances will be
examined and remedial action will be taken; (vii) Extemal audit will be undertaken on TORs acceptable to
the Bank. IFAC Standards will be followed; (viii) Financial statements will be prepared in compliance with
Intemational Accounting Standards; and (ix) The Budget will be approved in line with the Government
process. Care must be exercised in ensuring the timely availability and release release of Counterpart
Funds. In conclusion, provided the financial management proposals outlined in the Financial Management
Action Plan are effected in practice, the overall Project Risk is assessed as being low. The challenge for
Project Management will be to convert from the "drawing board" to practice.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no investments in mining operations under the Project. However, the Project would stimulate
private investment in mining, and identified environmental issues regarding envirommental management and
control by public mining authorities include: (i) Government has not prepared yet the environmental
regulations applicable to mining with regards to the new environmental law; this task is however being
funded under a PHRD Grant provided by the Japanese Government to assist in project preparation; (ii) the
Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy has yet to staff and provide adequate budget to the proposed
Environmental Unit; (iii) environmental baseline data for key mining areas is inadequate to monitor the
development impact of mining activities or to provide adequate infonnation to the private sector for the
preparation of environmental assessment (EA) studies; (iv) public participation in mining projects is
embrionary; and (v) there is no experience in evaluating socio-economic impacts of mining projects.
In order to address these issues, a comprehensive Sector Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA)
will be carried out as part of the project, including the: (i) review of the present status of the environmental
legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; (ii) evolution of the mining sector, including a description of
most of the mining projects in operation or under development; (iii) potential physical and socio-economic
impacts of sector activities on the environment and on the communities, including indigenous populations;
(iv) identification of protected areas and areas of high value biodiversity restricted to mining activities, and
- 25 -



prospective areas for mining development where environmental baseline studies will be prepared, in order
to assess natural, social and sector background data; (v) preparation of pilot socio-economic baseline
studies aiming at the definition and implementation of consultation procedures, training requirements and
programs, ad hoc institutional strengthening, altematives for revenue sharing with local communities, and
other related measures.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeLine and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environmuent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Traditionally, assessment of the economic impact of a mining project has been at the level of the national
economy, in terms of fiscal revenues, export eamings, GDP, gross capital investment, value added, and
other parameters. These impacts can be measured using well-developed statistical and other techniques.
Hlowever, the socio-cultural impacts of mining on local communities are receiving growing attention, and
the parameters, methodologies, and techniques used to assess these impacts are only now being developed,
in contrast to macro-economic impact assessment. Fundamentally, social assessments involve identifying
for each group of stakeholders the balance of positive and negative impacts, devising numeric or other
objective indicators, and recommending measures to maximize positive outcomes and attenuate negative
effects. Experience has shown that consultation and involvement of local communities in these assessments
is critical and forms the basis for subsequent action programs.
In recent years, Bank-funded project have been undertaking social assessments to identify key stakeholders,
examine social issues related to specific sectors and project components, analyze institutional capacities,
develop more consultative, inclusive and participatory approaches in project design and implementation,
conduct gender analysis, devise monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and promote project sustainability.
Through the social assessments, which will be undertaken in critical stages of the project cycle, the
development of adequate institutional and regulatory frameworks will be sought with a view to facilitating
community participation and empowerment while developing mechanisms for mitigating any adverse
negative impacts, resulting from any of the project activities. In this context and based on the findings and
recommendations of the planned social assessments, the project will develop a social management plan for
the mining sector, with particular focus on artisanal mining. The objective is to support the government in
addressing any issues related to potential resettlement and compensation in cases involving land acquisition
and to design the institutional, financial framework for revenue sharing with local communities according
- 26 -



to Bank policies and standards. In extractive industries, experience shows that Governments in partnership
with the private sector are becoming more sensitive to international business best practices and striving for
good governance and good corporate citizenship through inclusive public private ventures, which promote
community's ownership of the development process and hence better sustainability.
The Project will liase with the Decentralized Planning and Financing Project under preparation in
Mozambique and will also seek guidance from two pilot projects that deal with community involvement on
the management of natural resources, currently under implementation in Mozambique in the areas of
fisheries (Moma) and forestry (Tete).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key slakeholders participating in the project?
Small-scale and artisanal miners have been directly involved in the organization of the policy dialogue
seminar in Nampula and will be fully involved - either directly through the small-scale mining survey
funded under the PHRD Grant, or indirectly through their Association - in project preparation with respect
to the small-scale mining component. The project has been discussed with mining companies and reflects
their comments. The project was also be discussed directly with NGOs interested, mainly from the
environment area.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultation on environmental and social issues will be a permanent feature of the project and will
mandatory under the proposed new mining law.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Continuous minitoring and questionaires will be carried out under the small-scale mining component.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Community consultation and questionaires.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
.......... . ............                   .A pp        i  bili-
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable
- 27 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Mozambique has good geological potential as is evidenced by the interest major international mining
companies are showing in the country. However, the Government will encounter difficulty in sustaining this
interest and in ensuring the maximum contribution to economic development unless the major reforms
which have already begun are completed and deepened.  If  proper regulations and enforcement
mechanisms as well as a competitive environment are put into place, minerals exploration and development
of mines will become self-sustaining to provide a continual revenue stream and other economic benefits to
the country.  The project will contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Government of
Mozambique to manage key areas in the mining sector (policy, institutional, environmental, social),
through a set of prerequisite steps that will lay the ground for future private investment and whose
implementation will provide a sound basis for Mozambique in exploiting, over the long term and in a
developmentally sound manner, the significant potential of its natural resources. Sustainability will be
enhanced through the project's strong emphasis on institution building, training, human capital
development and environmental awareness in the public as well as private sectors. In addition, the project
will attempt to implement a full cost-recovery system in the Mining Cadastre.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government continued commitment to         M        Government's program for mining sector reform
reform                                              is on schedule and was confirmed and reinforced
during the policy dialogue seminar held in
Maputo on July 1999
Condensed timing to build-up capacity to   S        Preparatory work is being funded under the
manage the sector by the central and                PHRD grant. the project contemplates
Provincial mining institutions                      substantial amounts of capacity building and
training and assistance will be phased and
prioritized so as not to overburden the relevant
government departnents; the international
consultants engaged will work alongside local
counterparts
Reasonably stable world minerals market    M        Although the general trend in mineral prices will
conditions and prices                               continue to be flat or down over the long term, it
is expected that as a result of the project
potential investors will find promising targets
that will allow them to position themselves
favorably in the next minerals investment cycle.
Commitment to honor the provisions of      M        Stability clauses in the new code, international
the new Mining Code                                 arbitrage, guarantees and insurance.
Continued staff ownership regarding        M        Provision of necessary staff, resources and
project objectives                                  conditions to effectively implement the reform.
Political interference                     M        Project implementation guidelines to be included
in the General Agreement will aim at minimizing
political interference.
From Components to Outputs
- 28 -



3. Staff stability and continued ownership  M       Provision of necessary staff, resources and
regarding project objectives                        conditions to effectively implement the
institutional reform. Participative processes to
implement the institutional reform and introduce
new work methods
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The supply response to the major structural reforms adopted by Government could be slow, especially in
the case of inconsistent enforcement of the reformed regulatory framework. Moreover, the lack of a well
developed and maintained transport infrastructure, the inadequate supply of skilled labor, high freight costs
and high utility tariffs do not make Mozambique a competitive environment for long-term private
investment The Government needs to aggressively accelerate economic growth through policies and
programs aimed at increasing the level of private investment, thereby raising productivity, providing
employment and generating income for the labor force. Foreign-led private sector investment in mining
could be instrumental in opening up the economy to investment and competition, effectively supporting
macroeconomic stability and structural reformL
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)   the Borrower has established the UCPM;
(b)   the Borrower has appointed to UCPM a full-time Project Coordinator, Procurement Specialist and
Project Accountant staff satisfactory to the Association;
(c)   the Borrower has established within UCPM a financial management and accounting system
acceptable to the Association, including a Manual of Procedures and a Financial Management Committee;
(d)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been retained, as provided in
such Section and in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)   the Project Account has been opened; and
(f)   the Borrower's new draft Mining Law (Projecto de Lei de Minas) replacing the existing Law
No.02 of April 16, 1996, has been approved by the Borrower's Council of Ministers and submitted to the
Borrower's Parliament.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of negotiations: preparation of a Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA.
Conditions of Board presentation: (i) the Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy sends a letter to the
Association confirming the reorganization of the Mining Directorate (Direccao Nacional de Minas) and the
- 29 -



Geology Directorate (Direcgio Nacional de Geologia), as described in Annex 12; (ii) the Minister of
Mineral Resources and Energy sends a letter to the Association outlining an action plan acceptable to the
Association for the reorganization of the Mining Fund (Fundo de Fomento Mineiro) and a timetable for the
implementation of the proposed changes; and (iii) the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
establishes the Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) by Ministerial Diploma.
H. Readiness for Implementation
LI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Paulo De Sa                      James Bonn                        Johannes Zutt
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Acting Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Hierarchy of Obectives   dKey Performance      Monitoring &           Critical
--_:_-_-_-_._:_:_-::_-_-    Indicators         Evaluation      -_-_. _-_-: _:_: _-_
Sector-related CAS. Goals  Sector Indicators:  Sector/country        (from Goal to Bank
reports:              Mission)
1. Broad-based growth led   Approval of at least two  Midterm review  Continued neutral
by private, foreign      mining investments by                        macroeconomic and
investment               private investors                            sector policy environment
2. Improve the           Systematic application   Implementation
performance and          of EIA in mining      Completion Report
institutional capacity of  projects with       (ICR)
Government               participatory approach
3. Enhance social       Increase in per capita    Statistical data
development, including   revenues of populations
poverty reduction and    in artisanal mining
HIV/AIDS awareness       areas
Project Development      Outcome/Impact        Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
1. Encourage Private     Increase average annual  Midterm review      Stable, long-term
Investment in Mining     investments in mining                        politically neutral
macroeconomic and
sector policy environment
2. Increase Fiscal Revenues  Increase average annual  ICR             Reasonably stable world
mineral exports                             minerals market
conditions/ prices
3. Develop Environmental  Increase fiscal revenues  Continued monitoring    Environmental control
and Social Management for  from mining         by MIREME              procedures are
Mining                                                                enforceable and
community consultative
4. Inprove Capacity of   Define procedures for   Consultant's baseline    processes are applicable
Government Institutions  ETA for mining,       and progress reports
including in artisanal
areas                 Continued monitoring
Systematic application   by MIREME's Mining
of consultative       Environmental Group
processes             Statistical data
Improve geological
mapping coverage of
the country
- 31 -



Output from each         Output Indicators:    Project reports:      (from Outputs to
Component:                                                            Objective)
I.Legal and regulatory   New mining code       Midterm review         Continued commitment to
framework modem and      enacted 6 months after                       reform
transparent              effectiveness, including
environmental
regulations
2.Government institutions   Environmental      ICR                    Commitment to honor the
capable to provide timely,   monitoring system                        provisions of the new
reliable and transparent  operational 36 months                       Mining Code
administrative services to   after effectiveness
the sector
3. Minerals information  Geological,           Quarterly and annual    Reasonably stable world
System (MIS) available to   environmental      technical performance   minerals market
investors                databanks operational at reviews             conditions/price
project completion
4. Improved social       Computerized cadastre   Baseline studies reports
awareness, conditions for   system operational by
consultative processes and   mid4erm review
community participation in
new mining projects
5. Improved environmental  Consultative procedures  Mining Cadastre data
and Social conditions on    implemented at end of   base
small-scale mining areas    project
At least 4 social and  Annual social
environmental         assessment reports
assessments in artisanal
areas conducted before
completion
-32 -



Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for   Project reports:      (from Components to
components:              each component)                              Outputs)
A. Capacitv Building of  A. Canacity Building:   Project quarterly and  - Continued commitment
Public mini  Institutions   US$ 6.93 million   annual reports        to sector reform.
including:                                                            - Continued project
ownership
A. 1. Modernization of   A. 1. Legal and       Contracts, procurement  - Improved institutional
Legal and Regulatory     Regulatory Framework:  records, Consultants'    coordination.
Framework: new mining   US$ 0.50 million       reports, monitoring    - staff stability.
code, model investment                         reports, technical and    - No political
agreement, consultation.                       training performance    interference.
evaluation reports,   - Satisfactory
manuals, financial    performance by
reports and audits.   contracted consultants.
A.2. Institutional Reform:  A.2 Institutional
(i) Implementation of the    Reform: US$ 5.03
new institutional model:  million
staffing, organization,
procedures, training,
financial resources; (ii)
Institutional infrastructure:
equipment and works, (iii)
training and seminars.
A.3 Mining Cadastre and   A.3 Mining Cadastre
registry System:         and registry system:
Computerized system,     US$ 0.77 million
equipment and training.
A.4. Investment          A.4 Investment
promotion: promotional    promotion: US$ 0.433
material; communication    million
strategy.
A.5. Intranet network:   A.5 Intranet network:
consultants and equipment  US$0.30 million
-33 -



B. Geological            2. Geologic            Project quarterly and  - Continued commitment
Infrastructure including:    Infrastructure:US$  annual reports       to sector reform. -
B.1. Component            18.61 million                                Continued project
supervision, on twinning    B. 1.Component      Contracts, procurement  ownership - Improved
arrangement with a world   supervision:USS 1.15    records, Consultants'   institutional coordination.
class Geological Survey.    million.            reports, monitoring    Staff stability. - No
B.2. Geophysics Airborne  B.2. Geophysics       reports, technical and    political interference. -
Survey (parallel         Airborne Survey:US$    training perfonnance   Satisfactory performance
financing): aeromagnetic    4.82 million (parallel    evaluation reports,  by contracted consultants.
and radio-metric survey of  financing).         manuals, financial
the most promising mineral                      reports and audits,
provinces of Mozambique.                        maps.
B.3. Geological Mapping   B.3. Geological
(parallel financing):    Mapping:US$ 8.19
preparation of a complete    million (parallel
coverage of the country  financing).
with digitized maps.
B.4. Geochemical         B.4. Geochemical
sampling (parallel       sampling:US$ 1.31
financing): compilation of   million (pamllel
previous surveys,        financing)
collection of new samples,
digitized maps.
B.5. Seismological       B.5. Seismological
network (parallel        network:US$ 0.11
financing): rehabilitation of  million (parallel
existing network         financing)
B.6. Documentation       B.6. Documentation
center (parallel financing):  center: US$ 0.46
rehabilitation, update, and   million (parallel
training.                financing)
B.7. Minerals            B.7. MIS: US$ 0.76
Information System       million (parallel
(parallel financing):    financing)
upgrading of the
information system and
facilities; training
publication of maps and
documentation.
B.8. Industrial Minerals   B.8. Industrial Minerals
Survey (parallel         Survey:US$ 0.88
financing): identification of  million (parallel
potential targets for SMEs.  financing)
B.9. National Museum of   B.9. National Museum
Geology.                 of Geology: US$ 0.43.
B. 10. DNG Central
Laboratory (parallel
financing):
- 34 -



C. Envirorunental         C. Environmental       Project quarterly and  - Continued commitment
Management System-EMS   Management System-    annual reports            to sector reform.
including environmental    EMS: US$ 2.35 million                        - Line staff
and socio-economic                               Contracts, procurement  environmental and social
baseline studies,                                records, Consultants'    awareness.
development of                                   reports, monitoring    - Continued project
consultative procedures                          reports, technical and    ownership
and assessment criteria,                         training perforniance  - Improved institutional
environmental management                         evaluation reports,    coordination.
capacity building, training;                     manuals, financial     - Staff stability.
implementation of the                            reports and audits,    - No political
EMS.                                             maps.                   interference.
- Satisfactory
performance by
contracted consultants
- Continued commitmnent
D. Sustainability of Small-  D. Sustainabilitv of                        to sector reform
Scale Mining, including: (i)  Small-Scale Mining:                           -  Ability to
integrated management and  US$ 2.20 million                                     enforce new law.
T.A. program to enhance                                                         - Continued
technical yields,                                                               project
environmental                                                                   ownership
performance; enforcement                                                        - Improved
of new mining law;                                                              institutional
program of extension                                                            coordination,
services to small-scale                                                         especially with
miners; pilot training center                                                   providers of
for small scale miners,                                                         health and social
strengthening of minerals                                                       services.
laboratories; and (ii)                                                          - Staff stability
HIV/AIDS awareness and                                                          - No political
prevention campaign;                                                            interference.
- Satisfactory
performance by
contracted
consultants.
- 35 -



E. Proiect Coordination  5. Proiect Coordination                    - Continued comnitinent
and Management:         and Management:US$                          to sector reform.
- Hire and supervise staff   1.91 million                           - Continued project
- Manage procurement                                                ownership
-Contract accounting and                                            - Improved institutional
auditing                                                            coordination.
- Prepare quarterly and                                             Staff stability.
annual reports and annual                                           - No political
operation plas                                                      interference.
- Monitor progress and
evaluate results.
Contingencies           US$ 1.00 million
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$6.93 million
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building of Public mining Institutions.
The objective of the component is to improve the legal and regulatory framework for mining in
Mozambique, and strengthen the capacity of the sector institutions to enforce the law in order to establish
an enabling environment for private investments into mining. The activities of the component shall
comprise: (i) strengthening the policy making, regulatory and sector management capabilities within
MIREME; (ii) rationalizing the role of the State from being an owner and operator of mining assets to a
regulator and a promoter of the private sector participation; (iii) finalizing and perfecting the reform of the
legal and regulatory frameworks to create a favorable environrment for the private investments in mining;
(iv) restructuring and modernizing of the National Directorate of Mining and the National Directorate of
Geology, based on the redefinition of their core mandates, in order to transform them into a sector
promotion tool; (v) establishing a modern computer-based cadastre and mine-reporting systems as well as
explicit criteria and non-discretionary procedures for the granting and foreclosing of mining rights; and (vi)
improving MIREME's capacity to attract private sector investments by allocating resources for
promotional programs. These activities will be complemented by the training the staff and by procurement
of equipment and materials to enable the institutions to fulfill their mandates and functions.
The activities of the component are grouped into five sub-components: (A. 1) Modernization of the Legal
and Regulatory Framework; (A.2) Institutional Reform and Capacity Building; (A.3) Mining Cadastre
and Registry; (A.4) Promotion of investments; and (A.5) Intranet computer network, to improve the flow of
information within MIREME and to the different stakeholders of the sector.
A.1. Modernization of the Legal and Regulatory Framework - US$ 0.50 million (1.5% of total project
costs). The broad lines of the legal framework reform have been defined during Project preparation, under a
PHRD grant from the Government of Japan. As a result, proposals for a new mining law and its
regulations, including the specific environmental norms and procedures applicable to mining, have been
drafted. The next step consists of obtaining a consensus from the different stakeholders on the intended
reform and the new legal texts. The absence of a consensus would seriously hinder the enactment and
application of the new regulatory framework. Therefore, there is now a need to enlarge the participation
and build ownership of the different stakeholders on the reform agenda. This objective will be achieved
through a Policy Dialogue and Consensus Building program.
The consensus will be reached with the help of a communication campaign explaining the scope of the legal
reform and its advantage compared to the actual legal framework. Seminars and roundtables will be
organized to promote and enlarge the participation of key stakeholders of the mining development and
representatives of other Govemment institutions, specifically the finance, planning and environmental
administration of the State. The work will be carried out principally by individual national and intemational
consultants under the coordination and supervision of the National Directorate of Mining. Funds will also
be provided, through the Project, for seminars and the round tables logistics. In order to achieve the
consensus over a broader spectum of stakeholders, including the population of the mining areas,
communication campaigns will be organized through the local media (press, radio and television). This
campaign will aim at explaining the legal reform to the various economical and social sectors in order to
reach a high level of acceptance.
- 37 -



Although a draft of the new mining legislation has been prepared under the PHRD grant, some
complementary texts will be needed for the application of the new legal framework. Moreover, legal
assistance will be eventually required while the new Mining Code is being reviewed by Parliament.
Technical assistance will also be provided to strengthen the capacity of public institutions to negotiate
mining contracts and reinforce the Government's capacity to negotiate mining investment agreements for
large projects. This will be achieved through on the job training by the consultants, national seminars and
courses animated by the same consultants and study trips to emerging market countries.
A.2. Institutional Reform and Capacity Building - US$ 5.03 million (15.2% of total proiect costs). The
broad institutional framework for the institutional reform has been defined during project preparation. The
new institutional framework aims at defining better the functions of the public mining agencies, elimninating
most of the past widespread overlapping of functions, and strengthening their capacity to administer the
sector. This work has resulted in the definition of a preliminary new institutional model for MIREME's
mining agencies (see Annex 12). The detailed definition and adjustment of the model including functions,
procedures, staffing and operational budget will be carried out as part of the activities of the present
sub-component.
T'he new institutional model, accounts for the adaptation of the organization and core mandates of the PMIs
to the new mining policy of the Government. This new model sets up the broad institutional framework
according to which the reform will be carried out. However, the implementation of the new model still
requires, for each institution, some adjustments of the organization, the detailed definition of the functions,
work procedures as well as qualifications and training requirements of the staff. The practical
implementation of the new model shall also require the improvement of the infrastructure and equipment of
the institutions in order to provide them with the necessary physical resources to carry out their new
functions. The inventory of the needs in equipment and infrastructure improvement will be carried out as
part of the detailed definition of the model. The detailed design and implementation of the new model shall
be carried out under two programs:
(i) Adjustment and Implementation of the New Institutional Model, aimed at adjusting the overall model,
the definition of the functions and efficient work procedures, the definition of the staffing, job profiles and
training requirements to allow the staff to upgrade their knowledge and assume their new functions, the
estimation of the necessary operational budgets as well as the equipment and infrastructure requirements.
The implementation will be preceded by the adjustment and the detailed definition of the institutional model
agreed during project preparation. This process will be focused on the DNM and DNG, however some
actions will also be carried out concerning the Mining Fund. The adjustment of the model shall be carried
out with the participation of the major stakeholders of the mining administrations, e.g. the ministry, the
authorities of the institutions, the personnel and the clients of the institutional services from the private
sector or other state institutions. The process will take into account the internal and external demand of
institutional services and the requirements of quality and reliability of these products. The adjustment shall
be achieved through a participative process involving all the stakeholders of the mining administration and
geological services of Mozambique. Seminars and workshop will be organized for the sake of the
participative process.
The scope of the activities under this sub-component includes : (a) Identification of the respective role of
each agency and of the private sector and their inter-relationships within the mining policy of the
Government. This identification will be validated during the seminars and workshops; (b) Identification of
the inter-ministerial coordination required for the implementation of the mining Policy between MIREME,
MICOA, Finance and Planning Ministry, and other state institutions and definition of the coordination
- 38 -



mechanisms; (c) Identification of the present intemal and external demand for the institutional products and
estimation of the future demand as result of the promotion of the investments in the mining sector. A
particular attention will be given to the identification of the type and quality required for the institutional
products; (d) Determination of the detailed functions of each institution and efficient work procedures for
the production of the institutional services in quantity and quality required by the internal and external
clients; (e) Adjustment of the organizational structure on the basis of the roles and demand identified as
well as the work procedures established above, determination of the staffung, operational budget and
equipment necessary for the implementation of the new work procedures. The consultants shall also
determiine the necessary upgrade of the facilities to accommodate the new organization. The procurement of
the recommended equipment and works will be carried out by the UCPM on the basis of the technical
specifications prepared by the consultants for the equipment and contracted architects for the works. The
adjustment of the organizational structure of the institutions will be validated during internal workshops
with the participation of the authorities and the personnel of the institution; (f) Preparation of the manuals
of functions and procedures comprising the description of the functions of each post and the procedures for
production of each service. National consultants will be hired to redact the manuals under the supervision
of he international consultants on the basis of the definitions established above. The manuals will be
redacted in Portuguese; (g) Determination of the training requirements for the accomplishment of the
functions and work procedures defined. Training shall be orientated to prepare the present staff to perform
the new functions and work procedures established. Part of the training will be performed through on the
job training during the missions of the international consultants but will also comprise the participation to
workshops and short courses in Mozambique and abroad. The international consultants shall recommend
the content of the training programnme and establish the respective budget. The training programnne shall be
administrated and financed through the UCPM; (h) Evaluation of the capacity and training needs of the
present staff and establishment of a human resources policy including economical motivation and career
plans and training programme; and (i) Assistance for the implementation of the new work procedures
through technical assistance during the accomplishment of the new functions.
(ii) Institutional Infrastructure Program to upgrade the facilities at the reforrned institutions and provide
the necessary field and office equipment. The consultants participating to the adjustrnent of the new model
will determine the technical specifications of the works and equipment and the procurement will be carried
out by the UCPM on the basis of these specifications. The upgrading of the facilities shall comprise the
premises of the DNG in Maputo and its regional offices as well as the facilities of the DNM in Maputo and
of the Provincial Directorates. The funds of the Project shall be used only for the upgrading and
improvement of existing facilities. In the case of DNG, part of the rehabilitation works shall comprise the
upgrading of the sample storage facilities for the conservation and classification of the geological and
geochemical samples from previous field campaigns as well as the new samples to be collected as part of
the Project activities. The equipment to be purchased within the institutional infrastructure programme
shall comprise: i) computer and office equipment (others than the computer planned to be acquired within
the sub-components of the mining cadastre, mineral information system and environmental management
and information system); ii) field equipment for the geological field work, mines inspection and
environrnental affairs unit; iii) four wheel drive vehicles for the DNG, DNM and Provincial Directorates;
iv) laboratory equipment for the laboratories of the Provincial Directorates.
A.3. Mining Cadastre and Registry System - US$ 0.77 million (2.3% of total project costs!. The Project
will finance the transformation of the physical registries of the National Mining Directorate into a
computerized rnining cadastre. The cadastre will provide reliable information about the precise location of
mining rights in the territory. The cadastre procedures will be transparent, public, of general application,
non-discretionary and will respect the priority of the first application presented. Moreover, the cadastral
procedures will have stages, instances and resources to allow mining rights owners to adequately defend
- 39 -



their rights in accordance with the provisions of the Mining Code. The activities under this sub-component
include: i) the adjustment and establishment of the new organization of the mining cadastre, in the DNM
and the Provincial Directorates; ii) the definition of the functions and the establishment of the working
procedures of the mining cadastre including the interaction with the Provincial Directorates for the
reception and transmission of the applications in accordance with the dispositions of the mining code; iii)
the design of the Mining Cadastre System (MCS), a modem computerized system for the administration of
the mining titles, including the supply of the hardware and software and programming of the system; iv)
computerization of the working procedures of the mining cadastre as defined above in accordance with the
dispositions of the enacted mining act including the digitalization of the present manual information of the
mining cadastre of Mozambique; v) training of the mining cadastre staff in technical and legal aspects of
the administration of the mining titles and the operation of the MCS; and vi) strengthening of the technical
capacity of the mining cadastre in the DNM and the Provincial Directorates in terms of computer,
topographical and office equipment. To allow the posterior use of GPS instruments some technical
verifications and definitions need to be carried out before the start of the Project. Amongst these activities,
the most urgent are the verification of the geodesic network precision and the parameters for the
transformation of the GPS coordinates to topographical coordinates as well as a unique algorithm for the
management of the UTM zones over the whole country. These activities may imply changes in the terms of
reference of the consultants to be engaged and should thus be performed as part of the Project preparation
in order to avoid delays or surprises during the execution.
A.4. Investment Promotion - US$ 0.33 million (1.0% of total project costs). The project shall finance the
publication of promotional material (printed and video presentations) for presentation at international
events and publications in international magazines. All the activities of the Project are focused on the
promotion of the investments and it is of utmost importance to ensure the adequate diffusion of the results
obtained within the international mining community. Therefore, the Project will finance the realization of an
international symposium in Maputo at the end of the Project to which will be invited all the major mining
companies interested in investing in Southern Africa.
A.5. Intranet network - US$ 0.30 million (0.9% of total project costs). The Project shall finance the
establishment of several information systems (Mining Cadastre System (MCS), Mineral Information
System (MIS) and Environmental Management and Information System (EMIS)) to ensure the proper
collection, storage and retrieval of the sectorial information. However, these information systems will form
independent networks under the responsibility of the different technical units but will not provide a central
access to the complete information of the sector. For example, the Minister would need to consult several
units in order to compile a synthesis of the sectorial situation at any time.
Project Component 2 - US$18.61 million
Geologic Infrastructure
The main objective of this component is to provide the basic and reliable geological information necessary
to facilitate the promotion of private investments in the mining sector and to support the planning of the
social-economical development of the country. In order to achieve this goal, the Project shall finance: (i)
completion of the regional airborne geophysical coverage of the country and a denser coverage over
selected promising areas; (ii) actualization and improvement of the existing coverage of geological maps at
1:250.000 scale, and a detailed coverage (1:50.000) of selected areas of high mineral potential; (iii)
compilation of the existing geochemical survey data including the reanalysis of existing samples and some
complementary sampling; (iv) establishment of a network of seismic stations to monitor the seismic activity
of the country; (v) modernization and improvement of the documentation center of the DNG including the
classification and preservation of the documents (reports, maps, etc..); and (vi) the establishment of a
-40 -



modem and computerized Minerals Information System (MIS), to compile and catalogue dispersed data
facilitating the access to the information. The MIS will introduce GIS technology in support to geological
and thematic mapping and facilitate the use of the geological information for environmental purpose and
land use planning. A seventh component will include an inventory of industrial minerals and construction
materials in Mozarnbique and its promotion to local investors. The eight and ninth components concern the
strengthening of the National Museum of geology and DNG's Central Laboratory in Maputo.
B.1. Component supervision - US$ 1.15 million (3.5% of total project costs!. Considering the highly
specialized technical activities to be carried out within the present component, external assistance will be
necessary for the coordination and supervision of the works and consulting services in order to minimize
the technical contingencies that used to arise from such activities. The Project will finance the engagement
of a consulting firm or a foreign geological survey ("supervisor") with the experience in contracting
geophysical airbome surveys, geological mapping and in the establishment and operation of mineral
information systems. Under an "institutional twinning" arrangement, the supervisor shall oversee the work,
coordinate the different consulting firms and contractors engaged for the execution of the component,
evaluate the product's quality and advise the DNG in case of problems. The supervisor shall also assist the
UCPM for the elaboration of the bidding documents, the evaluation of the offers and the negotiation of the
corresponding contracts.
B.2. Geophysics Airborne Survey - US$ 4.82 million - Bank fmancin2 + parallel financing (14.6% of total
1roject costs). Mozambique posses an extensive coverage of airborne geophysical surveys at various scale,
some of them dating from the late fifties. The early airborne geophysical surveys were carried out for oil
exploration and the Nuclear Agency of Portugal. Airborne geophysical surveys for mineral exploration and
geological mapping started in 1970. The data of the early airborne survey carried out for oil exploration
(before 1970) are available only in analogical format as contour maps. The flight characteristics of these
surveys (high latitude and wide spacing) make them of little use for geological purpose. More recent
surveys have been carried out by CGG and Hunting Geophysics and Geology, between 1980 and 1985, and
included gamma-ray spectrometric measurements and complete magnetic recording. The data of the three
zones is available at DNG in digital and analogical format (paper contour maps). This data is presently
being compiled and treated at CGS South Africa and shall be available to the Project at the end of year
2000. According to the evaluation realized during Project preparation the quality of the older survey does
not justify the work to recover or digitize them and only the analogical paper maps will be used as
complementary information within the Project. However, the southern part of Mozambique has not been
covered recently and the coverage available is in analogical format, old and inadequate for geological
mapping (as has been realized primarily for oil and gas exploration). A part from the gaps in the northern
part of the country, a major zone with high mineral potential along the border with Zimbabwe has never
been covered by airborne geophysics. Trough parallel financing (US$ 1.6 million), the Project will carry
out the completion of the airborne geophysical coverage in the southern part of Mozambique along the
Zimbabwe border as well as higher density surveys in selected areas of high mineral potential of the
northern part of the country. The methods to be used will comprise gamma-ray spectrometric
measurements and magnetism. This area covers 212.000 square kilometers and will be flown with a flight
lines spacing of 1 kilometer and an altitude between 100-120 meters. In addition, Bank financing (US$
3.02 million) will cover higher density surveys over selected areas of northern Mozambique previously
flown. A total of 325.000 line Km (including tie lines) wihl be flown at 250 meters spacing an altitude of 60
to 80 meters over areas of high mineral potential to increase the density of information. 500.000 line Km
will be flown. The exact location of the detailed surveys will be determined with the advices of the
supervisor engaged. The Project shall also finance under the present sub-component (parallel financing,
US$ 200,000), the compilation and treatment of the data from the previous airborne geophysical surveys
including the digitalization of the analogical records whenever their quality justifies the operation.
- 41 -



B.3. Geological Mapping - US$ 8.19 million - parallel fmancing (24.8% of total project costs).
Mozambique posses an extensive coverage of geological maps. Geological mapping at 1:250.000 scale has
covered up to date 93% of the country. Almost all the maps present disconformities at the boundaries with
the lack of continuity of the geological formations from one map to another. Therefore, the entire mapping
carried out in the past has to be revised, updated and homogenized regarding the stratigraphy and regional
structures. The budget of the Project does not allow the in depth revision of all the maps of Mozambique.
Therefore, the activities of the geological mapping sub-component have to be programmed according to
priorities set in function of the objectives of the Project, according to the estimated mineral potential of the
corresponding map sheets, and taking into account the maps presently under revision and preparation for
printing as part of a recent cooperation with the Council of Geosciences of South Africa. The scope of
work for the revision of the geological maps of Mozambique at the scale 1:250.000 has been divided in
three groups of activities: (a) Detailed revision with extensive field checks dimensioned according to the
quality of the previous fieldwork carried out. The work will result in the preparation of a digital map ready
for impression. The impression will be made at a later stage with the assistance of the supervisor; (b)
Revision with limited field works to produce a preliminary digital geological map that will not be printed
but kept in digital format to facilitate the posterior updating when more fieldwork can be carried out; and
(c) Only compilation of existing material and preparation of a digital draft map for as a base for further
revision. Selected areas of high mineral potential will also be mapped at a smaller scale (1:50.000). The
exact areas to be mapped shall be detennined at a later stage with the assistance of the supervisor.
B.4. Geochemical sampling - US$ 1.31 million - parallel funancing (4.0% of total project costs). More than
150.000 stream sediment and rock samples have been analyzed during the past geological and metallogenic
investigations of the DNG from 1973 until 1984, not counting the soil samples. A large amount of data and
samples have been accumulated. However, nowadays most of the samples have been lost and the analytical
results dispersed within reports, laboratory protocols, etc. Presently, major investments are not being taken
advantage of. It is most urgent to recover, classify and digitize this information for future use as well as
locate and catalogue the sample's material as theses samples could be reanalyzed for multi-elements at low
cost compared to a new sampling programme. The activities of the sub-component will comprise the
inventory of all available information, sample maps, analytical results, and sample material as well as the
scanning of the documents and the digitalization of the samples position, together with the analytical results
in a GIS format. This information will be transferred to the MIS. Moreover, the sub-component shall also
finance new regional geochemical surveys to confirm areas of high mineral potential identified during the
geological mapping. DNG staff will carry out the sampling with the assistance of intemational consultants.
Parallel financing will cover the technical assistance of international experts, the cost of analysis
(multi-element) and the field allowance of DNG staff. The results shall be integrated to the former
information by the consulting firm engaged.
B.5. Seismological network - US$ 0.11 million - parallel financing (0.3% of total project costs). The
seismological network of Mozambique shall be rehabilitated and completed by CGS under parallel
financing from RSA and own funds of CGS (Council for Geosciences of South Africa). The rehabilitation
of the seismological network comprise three phases: (i) Phase 1 : (completed) installation of two
stand-alone digital seismographs in Tete and Nampula. Data is automatically archived at the stations onto
zip drive. In the absence of processing facilities in Maputo, the data are sent to the CGS in Pretoria for
analysis, and inclusion in the regional seismological bulletin for SADC; (ii) Phase 2 : (end 2000)
installation of a third station at Changalane, maintenance (repair) of the two stations installed at Tete and
Nampula (the station at Tete will be upgraded to a three-component system), and installation of processing
facilities in Maputo. Transfer of data from the seismological stations will done sending the zip disk to
Maputo where it will be processed and then sent to CGS in Pretoria for its inclusion in the SADAC
- 42 -



bulletin; (iii) Phase 3 (2001) installation of two more stations, one at Manica and one at Lichinga. Future
developments include the transmission of the data between the stations and Maputo by telephone or
Internet.
B.6. Documentation Center - US$ 0.46 million - parallel financing (1.4% of total project costs). A wealth
of information can be found at the DNG in Maputo, but the access to it is difficult due to the dispersion
over different offices in Maputo and in the Provinces. Therefore, it is important to organize a centralized
documentation center within the DNG where all the paper documents will be classified, indexed, and
preserved. To achieve this goal it is necessary to upgrade the facilities, equip the documentation center with
adequate furniture, and provide technical assistance for the recuperation, classification and preservation of
the docunents. Under this sub-component, parallel finance shall fund technical assistance for the recovery
and classification of the information and the organization of the center. The organization of a
documentation center will include the installation of a computerized catalogue of the documents and lending
system to track the documentation borrowed by users. Training in Mozambique and abroad shall be
provided to the staff of the center.
B.7. Minerals Information System (MIS) - US$ 0.76 million - parallel fmancing (2.3% of total project
cos. Basic geological information is essential for the development of the mining sector and the promotion
of investment into high-risk exploration activities. However, the usefulness of this information will depend
primarily on its accessibility. The DNG posses already a wealth of information that, is unfortunately, is not
used at the optimum because of lack of accessibility. Most of the information is kept in paper format and
although the documentation center of DNG is well organized, the search through the paper documents is
time consuming. Moreover, mining companies are not aware of the availability of the information. The
Project will not achieve its objectives if an appropriate mineral information system is not established to
facilitate the search, diffusion, and commercialization of the information. Parallel financing under the
Mineral Information System (MIS) sub-component will fund the establishment within the DNG of a
computerized information system based on GIS technology and relational databases. The MIS shall also
provide the access to information through the Internet to customers in Mozambique and abroad through
e-commerce facilities.
B.8. Industrial Minerals Survey - US$ 0.88 million - parallel financing (2.7% of total project costs).
Mozambique possesses a great potential for industrial minerals. In the proximity of urban areas,
smnall-scale exploitation of building materials (stone crushing, limestone, clay, ornamental rocks among
others) are widespread. However, these exploitation's also lack the managerial and technical skills to
exploit in a rational manner the mineral resources. The present sub-component shall finance the
strengthening of the extension of services to the industrial minerals and building material sector under
parallel financing. The DNG, through the past geological investigations accumulated an extensive
documentation on industrial mineral potential of the country. Moreover, the geological mapping programs
to be carried out under the Project will also contribute to the identification of promising areas. This
knowledge should be passed over to the industrial minerals and building material sector. The DNG shall
bring technical assistance to the industrial minerals and building material sector with geological advices
regarding the exploration of such material. The Project shall also finance the engagement of international
consultants to assist in evaluating the quality of the industrial minerals and building material deposits
identified by the DNG, as well as advise the small-scale miners regarding the quality requirement of the
market. Access to financing is also an important limitation for the development of the sector. The DNM
shall advise the small scale miners involved in the exploitation of industrial minerals and building material
on the possibilities of financing.
B.9. Rehabilitation of the National Museum of Geology - US$ 0.43 million - Bank financing + parallel
- 43 -



financing (1.3% of total project costs). This sub-component will assist in the rehabilitation of the building
of the National Museum of geology in Maputo and the valorization of its collections. Under parallel
financing, technical assistance will be provided to modernize the museum's collections and management.
B. 10. Strengthening of the DNG's Central Laboratory - US$ 0.50 million - parallel fmancing (1.5% of total
proiect costs). Under parallel financing, consultants for the technical assistance to the National Laboratory
of DNG. DNG needs a basic laboratory to process rapidly a limited number of samples to support
geological investigations. The sample preparation section needs also to be strengthened, specially regarding
mineralogical and petrographical preparations. Funds will be provided by parallel financing to restore the
elemental analytical and sample preparation capacity of the National Laboratory (purchase of new
equipment and repair of the existing instrument). Due to the experience of the National Laboratory, the
staff is well qualified and only a limited technical assistance will be required. Consultants will assist the
DNG in establishing the technical specifications for the procurement of the equipment, supervising the
installation and will ensure the training of the staff for the operation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.35 million
Environmental Management System
The general objective of this component is to set up a preventive environmental protection for mining. This
effort aims to bring together the mining administration, MICOA and the private environment entities to set
up an effective environmental approach to the mining development. The activities of the present Component
shall comprise: (i) preparation of an environmental and social sector assessment that will help identify the
location of protected areas and areas of high value biodiversity that should be restricted to mining
activities, as well of prospective locations for the development of mining operations where environmental
baseline studies should be carried out; (ii) definition of sector specific environmental regulations and
standards, including the procedures for the rehabilitation of the area after mine closure; (iii) implementation
of adequate procedures and guidelines for the preparation of environmental impact studies in mining; (iv)
capacity building of MIREME's Mining Environmental Management Unit for the definition of efficient
procedures for environmental licensing and the establishment of efficient cooperation mechanism between
the mining administration and MICOA to monitor and enforce environmental regulations; (v) preparation
of socio-economic baseline studies over selected mining districts as a basis for development of methodology
and capacity to assess and monitor social, cultural and economic impacts of mining on local communities,
and (vi) development of consultation and participatory procedures; and
(vii) establishment of environmental management system data basis for the environmental impacts of
mining to manage the large amount of technical data needed for the environmental assessment and
administration of the sector and simplify and speed up the environmental licensing procedures; the system
would have linkages with other relevant environment data banks in other ministries, namely MICOA's area
planning department. MIREME's and MICOA's capabilities to deal with sector environmental issues
would be strengthened through the training of their staff, in order to ensure that mining operations are
conducted in compliance with sound environmental practices. The main activities of the Component are as
follows:
a) Environmental and Social Sector Assessment: The assessment shall consist of an overall diagnosis of
environmental conditions and social impacts of the mining activities and the identification of the strategic
priorities for the sector. The recommended priorities for environmental and social management shall include
both broad policy, legal and institutional issues, specific targets for environmental and social mitigation in
the mining sector. The scope of work of the sectorial assessment shall include : (i) the identification of the
mineral resources and the mining potential of the country; (ii) the identification and characterization of the
present mining activities; (iii) the hydrological constraints, water resources and the competition for the use
- 44 -



of water between the different sectors; (iv) the identification of the areas of ecological sensitivity to mining
activities; (v) the demographics and socio-economic conditions of the mining sector; (vi) the economic and
environmental policies of the Government; (vii) the identification and clarification of the institutional
responsibilities for the environmental control and management; (viii) the overall environmental quality,
occupational health and safety conditions of the sector; (ix) identification of the major sources of
contamination and social impacts of the mining activities; (x) evaluation of the present and future
environmental and social impacts of the mining activities; and (xi) identification of the strategic priorities
for environmental and social mitigation. The recommendations will cover the strengthening of governmental
and non-governmental institutions, the overall planning for sound use of land and natural resources, the
identification of priorities for mitigation and the analysis of alternatives, the setting of goals for
environmental quality, the environmental legislation and the planning for new investments in the sector. A
consulting firm shall be engaged to carry out the sectorial environmental assessment with the participation
of DNM and MICOA staff.
b) Pilot studies and institutional capacity building of the Environmental Department: The main objectives
of the pilot studies comprise: (i) the development of methodologies for multi-disciplinary studies adapted to
the realities of Mozambique and applied to the evaluation of environmental and socio-economic impacts of
the mining activities on a regional or local level; (ii) the definition of the fundamental parameters of the
environmental conditions of the country to be applied in the formulation of the environmental regulation of
the sector; (iii) the development of methodologies and capacity building for the planning and execution of
the reclamnation of contaminated terrains by mining through pilot decontamination works; and (iv) the
capacity building of the Environment department of the DNM. The pilot studies will be carried out in close
cooperation with MICOA and two staff from this ministry will be invited to participate to the field
activities. The results of the studies and the establishment of the corresponding methodologies will be
realized together between the DNM and MICOA. One area has been preliminary for the pilot
environmental baseline study, on the border of the Nampula and Zambezia Provinces. The environmental
base line study will focus on the determination of the fundamental parameters characterizing the natural
environmental conditions (background value) and the present level of contamination due to the social and
economic development (base line data). The results of the study shall lead to the determination of the main
parameters to elaborate the environmental regulation adapted to Mozambique including the standards and
permissive limits to be applied allowing an environmentally sound econornic development of the country.
The social and economic study will be carried on the same area of the baseline study and will aim to the
detenrination of the positive and negative impacts of the mining activities on the social, cultural, and
economical development of the communities as well as the methodology to optimize the positive impacts.
Concerning the capacity building, the scope of work of the consulting firm shall comprise: (i)
Determination of the respective role of MICOA, DNM, and the Provincial Directorates for the
environmental assessment and control within the mining sector; (ii) Definition of the detailed functions of
the Environmental Department and the Inspection Department with respect to the environmental assessment
of the sector, environmental licensing, control, impact evaluation and auditing and the establishment of the
corresponding manual of functions in Portuguese; (iii) Establishment of efficient work procedures for the
accomplishment of the functions of the different units of DNM and the preparation of the corresponding
manual of procedures in Portuguese; (iv) Establishment of environmental inspection guides, base line study
methodology, environmental auditing guides, etc.; (v) Adjustment of the organizational structure based on
the roles and functions identified, detennination of the staffing, operational budget and equipment necessary
for the implementation of the new work procedures; (vi) Determination of the training requirements for the
accomplishment of the functions and work procedures defined. Part of the training will be perforned
through on the job training during the missions of the intemational consultants but will also comprise the
participation to workshops and short courses in Mozambique and abroad; and (vii) Assistance for the
implementation of the new work procedures through technical assistance during the accomplishment of the
-45 -



new functions. A pilot work for the decontamination of the Monarch mine shall be preceded by an
engineering study to verify the feasibility of the reclamation including a cost/benefit analysis, to establish
the work program and the technical specification of the works to be carried out. The decontamination
works shall be limited to the neutralization of the major sources of contamination and protection of the risk
areas.
c) Environmental Management System (EMS) : The objective of the sub-component is to establish a
computerized Environmental Management and Information System to facilitate the administration of the
environmental procedures within the mining sector and ensure the storage and access to the technical
information. The EMS shall support the environmental evaluation and include all the necessary modules for
the modeling of the environmental impacts and shall allow the storage and display of all the results from the
base line studies. Moreover, the EMS shall include also modules for the automation of the environmental
licensing procedures and environmental control. The operation of the EMS shall be under the responsibility
of the Environmental Department of the DNM but shall be accessed by the Mines Inspection Department
concerning the feeding of the inspection data and records of the environmental infractions. The EMS shall
also comprise the safety a.id health inspection database operated by the Mines Inspection Department of the
DNM. It shall have the capability of linkage with other relevant environmental data banks in other
ministries and specifically allows for the exchange of data with MICOA as well as provide access to the
databases from MICOA.; and
d) Consultation and participatory procedures : Under this sub-component, the Project shall finance the
realization of seminars and workshops in the local communities to develop the methodologies for the
consultation and participatory procedures with the stakeholders in the new mining projects. The activities
will be coordinated by the Environmental Affairs Unit of the DNM in close collaboration with MICOA.
The Project shall also finance workshops in Maputo with the DNM, MICOA and other institutions
involved in the environmental management.
e) Component supervision by an independent consultant.
Project Component 4 - US$2.20 million
Sustainability of small-scale and artizanal mining
The component will support assistance programs of integral character aimed at promoting the development
of small-scale and artizanal mining on a technical, environmental and social sound basis, and providing for
the sustainability of these activities. Activities are intended to promote the awareness of small-scale and
artizanal to improve their technical and environmental performance and the overall impacts of their activity
on the local communities. The component will: (i) assist DNM in the demarcation of reserved areas for
small-scale mining, explain the content of the new Mining Code, certificate the small-scale miners working
in those areas and promote their organization in small associations; (ii) support integrated management and
technical assistance pilot projects to enhance technical yields, reduce the current serious adverse impact on
the environment, improve living conditions of artizanal miners, and increase tax revenues; (iii) support the
Mining Directorate to design and deliver technical advice, geology information, and extension services to
small-scale miners, including the establishmnent of a pilot training center for small scale miners; and (iv)
support health hazards campaigns to improve health conditions within small scale and artizanal miners
communities, namely for malaria, and STDs, with focus on HIV/AIDS.
The program shall be multi-disciplinary in its approach and include assistance to the following activities: (i)
small-scale enterprise organization, management and accounting, including the provision of assistance to
encourage small-scale miners to form cooperatives. improve their access to micro-finance, and identify
- 46 -



suitable, well organized private companies who would be interested in joint-venture operations; (ii) legal
and fiscal matters related to mining and provision of assistance to legalize informal operations and to
enforce the new mining law; (iii) technical assistance: mining methodology, geology, metallurgy (mineral
processing, infrastructure, simple mining economics and environmental safeguards); (iv) design and
implement an environmental sensitization, awareness and prevention campaigns targeted at artizanal
miners; (v) investigate and identify health hazards originating directly or indirectly from mining and
promote remediation measures, including HIV/AIDS awareness; and (vi) promote the implementation of
projects aiming at the diversification of economic activities, through the development of an information and
assistance network.
Project Component 5 - US$1.91 million
Project Coordination and Management
A project management structure shall be established in order to administrate and supervise the Project's
activities. For this purpose, MIREME shall establish and maintain, during the execution of the Project, a
Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) to coordinate project implementation, and manage: (a)
procurement, including all contracting for works and purchases, and the hiring of consultants, (b) project
monitoring, reporting and evaluation, (c) the contractual relationship with IDA, and (d) fnancial record
keeping, the Special Account and disbursements. The Project shall finance the recurrent costs (salaries of
UCPM staff and operation costs), external auditing and accounting assistance (consultants), short term
consultants for the assistance to the UCPM for the supervision of the Project, equipment and vehicles and
training of the UCPM staff in World Bank procedures. The adequate operation of the UCPM is a key
factor for the implementation of the Project. The UCPM shall ensure the coordination between the different
institutions of MIREME participating in the Project as well as other state and private institutions
stakeholders in the Project's objectives. The UCPM shall also be the direct link to the World Bank
concerning the Project implementation.
-47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US &$lljon    US $mil]ion   US $mtlion
A. Institutional Reform and Capacity Building               4.28         2.65          6.93
B. Development of Geologic Infrastructure                   3.97        14.64         18.61
C. Environmental Management System                          0.87         1.48          2.35
D. Sustainability of small-scale mining                     1.68         0.52          2.20
E. Project Management                                       1.68         0.23          1.91
Total Baseline Cost                                        12.48        19.52         32.00
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00          1.00          1.00
Total Project Costs              12.48        20.52         33.00
Total Financing Required              12.48         20.52         33.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Catgory                 US $million    US $million    US&$million
Consultant                                                   4.90          12.09         16.99
Training                                                     0.99           1.31          2.30
Publishing Services                                          0.15           0.16         0.31
Goods                                                        1.16           1.51          2.67
Works                                                        2.81           4.46          7.27
Recurrent Costs                                              2.46           0.00         2.46
OContigencies                                                0.00           1.00          1.00
Total Project Costs     12.47         20.53         33.00
Total Financing Required     12.47          20.53         33.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$rn) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 33 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 54.55% oftotal
project cost net of taxes.
-48 -



Annex 4
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
The value of Mozambique's declared mineral production in 1998 was about US$ 7 million, basically from
industrial minerals (US$ 6 million), gold and gemstones (US$ 1 million). On the basis of the announced
investment programs, a growth of 50% in the production of industrial minerals over the next 5 years can be
anticipated. This is simply a "supply-driven" projection, without taking into account increases in output
that could arise from demand in specific areas, like the Maputo Corridor.
Growth in gold and gemstones is more difficult to forecast, since most of the production is currently
smuggled out of the country. Based on current exploration projects, it could be reasonable to estimate that,
on a five year horizon, two small mechanized mines for gold could be open, generating annual revenues of
about US$ 2 million. On the other hand, it is also reasonable to anticipate the doubling of the reported
production of gemstones to US$ 1.5 million. As a reminder, estimates for artisanal gold smuggled out of
the country vary from $5 to $10 million, while the equivalent estimated for gemstones range from $10 to
$20 million. One of the objectives of the project is to formalize part of this output within the next five
years. This would leave Mozambique with a declared output of about US$ 13 million for mining in the five
years horizon.
The pipeline of new projects is relatively rich: (i) a tantalum project which is reaching final stages of
exploration and, if an investment decision is reached soon, could generate revenues of about $ 60 million in
about 3 years. This project has good chances to see the day; (ii) two mineral sands (titanium) projects are
on advance stage of evaluation (pre-feasibility study) in Gaza and in Angoche. Feasibility studies should be
finished in about one year and an investment decision, at least for one of them, could be made by 2001-02.
Output could reasonably reach $ 75 million by 2004. There is a fair change of having one of the projects
developed within the time horizon of the Project; and (iii) the rehabilitation of Moatize coal depends on the
reconstruction of the Sena railway. It is unlikely that this could be achieved over the next five years. In this
scenario, coal production at the end of the five year horizon would still be modest, something like $5-10
million.
In summary, projections for mining production by the year 2005 can be done under three scenarios:
*   Worst case scenario: no new projects => mining production: $ 13 million;
* Base case scenario: 1 large-scale project => mining production: $ 70-90 million;
* Best case scenario: 2 large-scale projects => mining production: $ 150 million.
Mineral Production of Mozambique projected under the best case scenario
(US$ million)
1997       1998e         2005             2010
Industrial minerals     6.0        6.0           9.6              20.4
Gold (from mines)       0.0        0.3           2.0              7.0
Gemstones               0.7        0.7           1.5              5.0
Mineral Sands           -          -             75.0             400.0
Coal                    -          -             4.5              80.0
-49 -



Tantalum                 -            -             60.0               60.0
Reported Value           6.7          7.0           152.6              572.4
Artizanal Gold (*)       5.0          5.0            10.0              10.0
Artizanal Gemstones (*)  20.0 20.0           30.0              40.0
Source: MIREME, USGS (Mineral Commodity Summary), and Government projections and estimates
(e= estimated; p= projection); (*) smuggled out of the country
This projections might seem ambitious but worldwide the mineral resource extraction industry is emerging
from a period of consolidation and cyclical price lows. Until the late 1980's, the African continent had
failed to attract new investment in exploration or mining development. Beginning in the early 1990's this
state of affairs began to change.  Certain countries, notably Ghana as an early example, undertook
significant reforms to the mining legal and regulatory framework and to the organization of the sector. The
result has been a remarkable growth in new investment and gold production. Mining sector reform has
been since emulated by many other African countries with, in many cases, tremendously positive results.
Tanzania, after having gone through sector reforms, is now the leading designation for exploration and
mining investment in Africa. The production of gold in Mali has increased from just 1.5 metric tonnes in
1990 to nearly 20 metric tonnes in 1998. The lesson in Africa (as on other continents) is clear: mining
sector reforn works.
Mineral resource extraction remains a very important source of fiscal revenue for developing countries,
provides foreign exchange export revenues, and is an important generator of employment. Moreover, in
frontier countries mining is generally the first sector to attract foreign direct investment (FDI). The
responsible use of their mineral resources provides developing countries with considerable opportunities for
poverty reduction and economic development. The formal mining industry employs a great number of
people in developing countries, and can have enormous impact on these countries' infrastructure, income.
The industry is key to local mining communities, creating huge opportunities, but also risks regarding the
environment that need to be managed carefully. In countries where mining is done well, the industry
provides social and infrastructure services, and can help create a lasting impact on the local and regional
economy. At the other end of the scale, informal artisanal mining in developing countries across the world
provides livelihood for millions of poor people, although it also can impact negatively on health and the
environment.
- 50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
|                 IFllPFiEgWEl-TWATlNF;t-  
Year 1j Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  L Year 5  | Year 6  I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.6        2.4        6.2       11.1       8.5        1.8       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2        0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5       0.2        0.0
Total ProjectCosts           0.8        2.9        6.7       11.6       9.0        2.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.8        2.9        6.7       11.6       9.0        2.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.4        1.5       3.5        5.1        6.8       0.7        0.0
Government                 0.1        0.2       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.1        0.0
Central                 0.1       0.2        0.2        0.2       0.2       0.1        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.3        1.2       3.0        6.3        2.0       1.2        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.8       2.9        6.7       11.6       9.0       2.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Procurement
A. General
Goods and works financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRID and IDA Credits dated January 1995 and revised in January 1996, August 1996, September
1997, and January 1999. Consultancy services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in
September 1997 and January 1999. The Project Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Mineral Resources
and Energy, the executing unit for the project, will be responsible for procurement. This unit will be
adequately staffed to manage the procurement arrangements. During pre-appraisal, Terrns of Reference
have been prepared for the hiring of a Deputy Project Coordinator responsible for procurement. During
appraisal, a candidate was selected and his resume was assessed by the procurement specialist of the
Resident Mission, under the supervision of AFTQK, and found to be satisfactory. The Project
Implementation Plan, including a procurement plan and terms of reference for the first year of
implementation, was assessed during appraisal and found to be satisfactory. At negotiations, assurances
will be obtained from the Government that the following procurement arrangements will apply for the
implementation of the project. In addition, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been transmitted to
IDA for publication in the United Nations Development Business to advertise for major consulting
assignments and goods contracts. This notice is to be updated every year during the execution of the project
until all the contracts have been procured. Procurement methods and prior review arrangements are
indicated in Tables A and B of this Annex.
B. Works and Goods
Works. The project will finance, under the category of works, the rehabilitation and improvement of
existing facilities to provide adequate offices to the newly reformed institutions. The works category, also
includes the publication costs (promotion document under Bank financing and maps under parallel
financing), as well as the airbome geophysical services (both under IDA and parallel financing). Airbome
geophysical services at an estimated cost of USS 3.2 million will be procured according to International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, with post-qualification. In view of the small amount of each of the
rehabilitation and improvement contracts, the procurement of the civil works shall be carried out through
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for an aggregate amount of US$ 2.0 million. Contracts
for publication over 50.000 US dollars equivalent shall be procured through national competitive bidding,
while contracts less than 50.000 US dollars equivalent will be procured through quotations.
Goods. Goods procured for the project will include office equipment and furniture, field equipment and
instruments, computers, vehicles, consumable and documentation. Where possible, items such as vehicles
and computers would be grouped into packages. Most of the goods will be procured in packages costing
US$ 50,000 or more but less than US$ 100,000 for an aggregate amount of US$ 1.2 million will be
procured using international shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, based on evaluation of at least
three price quotations. Other smaller items of office equipment, furniture, training materials and office
supplies and documentation estimated to cost less than US$50,000 for an aggregate amount of US$
200,000 will be procured through national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank based on the
evaluation of three price quotations. Vehicles purchases over US$ 100,000 for an aggregate amount of
- 52 -



US$ 700,000 will be procured through international competitive biding. Computer purchases over US$
100,000 for an aggregate amount of US$ 120,000 will be procured through national competitive biding.
C. Consultancy Services, Training and Publishing services
Recruitment of firmns. Consultancy services for studies, technical assistance and training requiring the
recruitment of firms will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Most of these services, including
(i) the completion of the new mining legislation; (ii) the technical assistance for the normalization of
small-scale mining; (iii) the contracting of assistance in institutional capacity building; and (iv)
environmental and socio-economic baseline studies, will be recruited on the basis of the Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS) method for an estimated aggregate amount of US$ 3,500,000. Exceptions to the
QCBS method will include the use of Lowest Cost Selection for the Project's auditors, Selection Based on
Consultant's Qualification for the UCPM staff and local institutional consultants, and single sourcing for
the technical supervision of larger geological and geophysical contracts, for an estimated aggregate amnount
of US$ 1,100,000 The reason for single source is based on the fact that the task represents a natural
continuation of previous work carried out by South African scientific institutions. The Council for
Geosciences (CGC) has access to previous works carried out in Mozambique during decades and has been
assisting for several years Mozambique's Geologic Survey in processing them. A direct supervision
contract will result in substantial savings of money compared with a situation where a similar task would
have to be perforrned by competitors from other countries. It would also help to generate a grant from the
South African assistance program for an arnount equivalent to the total cost of the contract, which will also
contribute for a substantial reduction of the total amount of borrowed money. For contracts based on a
short list of consultants estimated to cost US$ 50,000 or less per contract, the short list may consist entirely
of national consultants if a minimum of three qualified ones are available.
Recruitment of individuals. Individuals will be recruited in cases where a firn is not needed. Such
individuals will be selected and recruited on the basis of qualification and experience in accordance with
Bank Guidelines.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          3.20           1.99         0.00          2.36          7.55
(3.20)        (1.71)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.91)
2. Goods                          0.91          0.08           1.55         0.46          3.00
(0.70)        (0.07)        (1.26)        (0.00)       (2.03)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          6.90          10.47         17.37
Consultants                      (0.00)        (0.00)         (6.90)        (0.00)       (6.90)
4. Publishing Services            0.00           0.00         0.16           0.16         0.32
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.16)        (0.00)       (0.16)
5. Training/Seminars              0.00          0.00           1.99         0.42          2.41
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.99)        (0.00)       (1.99)
- 53 -



6. Incremental Operating               0.00             0.00            2.22            0.13           2.35
Costs                                  (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.01)          (0.00)          (2.01)  _
Total                               4.11             2.07           12.82           14.00           33.00
(3.90)          (1.78)         (12.32)          (0.00)         (18.00) _
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
a Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 54 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services 
Expenditure    QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Costt
Category__    __               _ ___ ____    _                       ________
A. Firms           3.55      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      1.13     10.47     15.15
(3.55)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (1.13)    (0.00)    (4.68)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.30      2.23      0.00     4.53
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.30)    (2.23)    (0.00)    (4.53)
Total   3.55     0.00      0.00      0.00      2.30     3.36      10.47     19.68
(3.55)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.30)    (3.36)    (0.00)    (9.21)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 55 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Goods and works contracts costing more than US$ 100,000 per contract will be subject to prior review by
IDA. All other contracts will be subjected to post review.
All procurement documents for consulting contracts with firms for amounts exceeding US$ 100,000 per
contract selected on the basis of a short list and any contract involving individual consultants exceeding
US$50,000 per contract will be subject to prior review by IDA. In addition, for consultant contracts with
firms exceeding US$ 100,000 per contract, the technical evaluation report will also be required by IDA for
prior review. All other contracts will be subjected to post-review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        >100                     ICB                AlIVUS$ 0.7 million
50-100                   NCB                     None
50                Price quotations              None
2. Goods                         >100                     ICB                   US$ 0.67
50-100                   NCB                     None
<50                   Shopping                  None
3. ServicesConsultants,
training & workshops,
publications and other
services                        >100                                           All/UJS$ 9.2
Firms                           <100                                              None
Individuals                      >50                                          All/US$ 0.24
<50                                             None
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 10.81
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 56 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The credit would be disbursed over a period of 60 months (the Project completion date would be December
31, 2005 and the Credit closing date is June 30, 2006), as follows: (i) 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent
for contract works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of local expenditures for goods; (iii) 100
percent for consultancies; (iv) 100 percent for training and seminars; (iii) 100 percent for publishing
services; and (vi) 90 percent for incremental operating costs, but 100 percent for audits. Disbursement of
Credit proceeds would be made against six categories (base costs): (i) contract works (US$ 4.56 million);
(ii) goods (US$ 1.90 million); (iii) consulting contracts (US$ 6.23 million); (iv) training and workshops
(US$ 1.78 million); (v) publishing services (US$ 0.15 million); and (vi) incremental operating costs,
including audits (US$ 1.88 million). A Project Preparation Facility will be requested for an amount of US$
0.5 million. Unallocated contingency allowances amount to about 5.5 percent of total project base costs.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Works                                       4.56           100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of
local expenditures
Goods                                       1.90           100 percent of foreign and 85 percent of
local expenditures
Consultants services                        6.23                100 percent of expenditures
Training and workshops                      1.78                100 percent of expenditures
Recurrent costs                             1.88             90 percent of expenditures and 100
percent of audits
Publications and other services             0.15                100 percent of expenditures
PPF refinancing                             0.50
Contingencies                               1.00
Total Project Costs                         18.00
Total                                       18.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against Statement of Expenses (SOEs) for contracts and goods not requiring
the Bank's prior review. Therefore disbursements for all contracts for: goods and civil works of less than
US$ 100,000 consulting services, training and publications by firms and individuals of less than US$
100,000 and US$50,000 respectively; and all incremental operating expenses would be made on the basis
of SOEs and certified by the UCPM. SOE statements will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
Special account:
Payments from the Credit proceeds would be administered by the UCPM from a Special Account. The
Special Account would be maintained in US dollars in a commercial bank selected by the Borrower and
acceptable to the World Bank. The authorized allocation, sufficient for about four months of fmanceable
expenditures, would be US$ 500,000; however, the initial allocation would be limited to US$ 250,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into the Bank shall be equal to or exceed SDR 1 million. The Special Account
- 57 -



would be managed by the UCPM which would be responsible for preparing disbursement requests. These
requests would be submitted on a monthly basis. Replenishment of the Special Account would follow Bank
procedures. Disbursements will be made under the authorized signature from a designated representative of
the Borrower. The Special Account would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
- 58 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             07/27/99                      07/27/99
Appraisal mission departure                      05/31/2000                   11/27/2000
Negotiations                                    09/01/2000                    12/06/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   05/15/2001
Prepared by:
The World Bank Mining Department jointly with MIREME's National Directorate of Mining (DNM) and
National Directorate of Geology (DNG).
Preparation assistance:
World Bank IDF Grant for a Policy Dialogue Seminar and PHRD Japanese Grant for project preparation
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Paulo de Sa                       Task Team Leader
Koh Naito                         Mining Specialist
Jose Paulo Kastrup                Legal Counsel
Anthony Hegarthy                  Senior Financial Management Specialist
Francesco Samo                    Senior Procurement Specialist
Jose Janeiro                      Financial Management Specialist/Disbursement Officer
Claude Ginet                      Institutional Consultant
Jehanne Sansaricq                 Task Team Assistant
- 59 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project FiIe*
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, November 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Mining Sector Policy Review', a joint MIREME/Worid Bank report part of the country's Economic and
Sector Work for FY 1999.
Draft Financial Management Action Plan, November 2000.
C. Other
Capacity Building Project, National Directorate of Mines (MIREME), January 1998.
Mining Sector Policy declaration, Resolution 4/98 of the Council of Ministers, February 24, 1998.
Conclusions of the Mining Policy Dialogue Seminar "Policy and Strategies for Mining Development in
Mozambique: Attracting Foreign Investment into mining", July 1999.
A Baseline survey of small-sale mining in Mozambique, National Directorate of Mines (MIREME),
November 2000.
*lncluding electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOZAMBIQUE: Statement of Loans/Credits
Schedule D (MOP) as of January 31, 2001
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Differene between expected and actual disbunements
Amount In USS milUon (less canceUatlon)
LoJCfredit           FY                 PURPOSE                       IDA       Undish.   Cldu Date
Credts              Borrower
25 Credit(s) dosed                                                     1,179.69
24360               1993      CAPACffY BUILDING                            48.6   5.38    6/30/2001
2S990               1994     2N ROAD AND COASTAL                            188  36.41    6/30//2001
26070               1994      FINANCE SECTOR CAPACITY                         9   0.88    3/31/2001
26290               1994      GAS ENGINEERING                                30   7.44    6/30/2001
278f0               1996      HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                          98.7  45.95    6/30/2001
30390               1998      NATIONAL WATER I                               36  28.82   10/3112003
31720               1999      EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGIC PROJECT             71  64.57    6/30/2004
31710               1999      AGRIC SECTOR PEP                               30  26.15    6/30/2004
32470               1999      NATIONAL WATER II                              75  70.06    9/30/2005
32310               2000      RAILWAY & PORT RESTR.                         100  93.37    6/30/2005
33660               2000      COASTAL AND MARINE BIODIVERSITY               5.6   5.43    6/30/2005
33170               2000      ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                         26  22.47    6/30/2005
33360               2000    r FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJ.                 30   0.13   12/31V2001
Total Number of credits  = 13                                           747.9    407.05
Loans 0 Loans dosed                                                        0          0
Total Number of Loans   =  0                                               0
0
Total***                                                             1,927.59
Of which repaid                                                       692.32
Total held by Bank & IDA                                             1,235.27
Amount sold                                                                0
Of which repaid                                                            0
Total Undisbursed                                                          0    426.96
- 61 -



Mozambique
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of January, 2001
IFC Data Warehouse                                                            (Amounts In US Dollar Millic
IFC Held                 -     IFC Disbursed
FY Approval     Company            Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Parti
1995             AEF Bonar         0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996            AEF Cahora Bass,   0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00      .0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            Agrimo             1.57    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/00          BIM               0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00      0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1998             BIM-INV           0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
2000             BMF               0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00
1999             Maragra Sugar    10.30    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99          MOZAL            55.00    0.00   65.00    0.00     49.50    0.00   58.50    0.00
1992             Polana Hotel      1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000             SEF Ausmoz        0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000             SEF Cabo Caju     0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            SEF CPZ            1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997            SEF CTOX           0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999            SEF ROBEIRA        0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       71.82    8.00   65 00    0.00      54.96    8.00   58.50    0.00
I Approvals Pending Commitment !
FY Approval     Project Name       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997            AEFAfristem        0.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000             BFE              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000             BIML              2.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1999            SEF CTN            0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999            SEF Extramac       0.42    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending:         13.66    0.30    0.00    0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOZAMBIQUE: MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low.
Mozambique      Ahrica  income      Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      17.3      642     2,417                 Ufe expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   230       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                     3.9       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (%)                                       2.3       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                      2.3       2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
per         \o             {primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             per               /rimary
capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  69
Urban population (% of total population)              39        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      45        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births,             134        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            26        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)     32        43        64
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation ase 15+)                   57        39        39
Gross Primary enroilment (% of school-age population)  71       78        96           -Mozambique
Male                                                79        65       102                 Low-income group
Female                                              60        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989      1998      1999
EconomIc ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                            ..     2.3       3.9       4.2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                        14.8     20.4      35.5                   Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP                    8.2       11.7     13.4
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                          -15.6       1.7     11.0
Gross nabonal savinqs/GDP                           -23.5      -3.8      5.2
Current account balance/GDP /a                     -33.0      -20.5    -31.7     Domestic                    Investment
Interest paymentslGDP lb                             1.4       1.5       1.5     Savings                     I
Total debt/GDP                                      191.1    214.3    184.2
Total debt servicetexports lb                       25.3      29.0      28.0
Present value of debt/exports /c/d            ,              538.0    202.0
1979.89  1989-99    1998      1999  1999-03                 Indebtednes
(averaqe annual growth)
GOP                                -0.9      5.7    12.0       9.0       7.4                      Mozambiquie
GNP per capita                     -3.6      3.6     9.3       6.4       5.1                      Low-incomne group
Exports of qoods and servmces      -8.9    14.2      6.5       8.3      31.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                        ==,
1979    1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(%6 of GOP)                                                                      0
Aqriculture                                         47.4      34.3      31.6
Industry                                            24.3      20.8      24.1     50 ii
Manufacturinq                                                10.5      12.6       1 
Services                                             28.3     44.9      44.3      a '               _
Private consumption                                 104.3     89.0      78.8             94-s5 o6   97   9    9
General govemment consumption                        11.3      9.3      10.2
Imports of qoods and services                       38.6      30.5      379 G901                           GOP
979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averaqe annual growth)
Aqnculture                                   7.3     4.2       7.0       5.4    60
Industry                                    -4.5     8.0      22.9      12.6    40
Manufacturinq                                      16.4       7.5      16.0
Services                                    10.0     5.7       9.9       7.9    20
Private consumpbon                          -2.3     3.2      11.8       8.7    oi4=
General govemment consumption               -3.0    -5.1      32.2       9.3           V4                97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                    3.2    11.5      29.4      83.9    -
Imports of qoods and services               -4.4     2.2      24.2      55.3           -     Exports       lmports
Gross national product                      -1.9     5.9      11.8       8.6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, Hf data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 63 -



Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998       1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           so
Consumer prices                                        42.1        0.6       2.0    60
Implicit GDP deflator                                  47.4        3.8       5.2    40
Govemment finance                                                                    20
(% of GDP, includes current qrants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                        16.8       15.7      17.6             94   95    96    97    98   99
Current budget balance                                  2.5        4.3       5.4             -GDPPdefator        C  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -9.9      -6.5      -6.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1979      1989      1998       1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                     105       248        260     1 50r
Cashews                                       52       21         41        35
Prawns                                        23       39         73        75         1
Manufactures                                   ..       0         14        20      1,000
Total imports (cif)                             ..      723       868      1,346
Food                                           .        ..        32        39       500t*      *         *    *     * 
Fuel and energy                                ..        .        8 4       86          I          *i
CaDital qoods                                 ..        ..       211       307 o
Export prce index (1995=100)                             92         95        97            93  94   95  96   97  98   99
ImPort price index (1995=100)                            89        88         89                 oEx,orts      a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                               103        108       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998       1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                           200       534        559      
Imports of goods and services                           790      1,075     1,579
Resource balance                                       -590       -540    -1,020     -10I
Net income                                             -173       -256      -303
Net current transfers                                    ..          .         .. .-20ii"                    "        I
Current account batance                                -763       -796    -1,322     -34,
Financing items (net)                                   760       858      1,375
Chanqes in net reserves                                   3        -62       -53      40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..      204       625        669
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUS$)              32.6    744.9  11,850.3  12,691.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998       1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..   4,422       8,344     7,682
IBRD                                                    0         0          0                        G;9
IDA                                                   176      1,338      702                                B: 1,338
Total debt service le                                    69        159       214          F: 1,975
IBRD                                                    0         0          0                                    C:204
IDA                                                     6        12         16
S    f s  0 0 j ax  _ 0: 552
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                                       573       674        428
Official creditors If                                 147        14        191
Private creditors                                      11        43       344
Foreign direct investment                               3       213       392
Portfolio equity                                                                                   E: 4,265
World Bank proqram
Commitments /,                                        197       186        176     A- IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements /g                               .       51       134        218      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repavments                                    5         3          6      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                              46       131        212
Interest payments                                       1         9         11
Net transfers                                 ..       45       122        201
World Bank                                                                                                             8/31100
a. Before capital grants. b. After rescheduling in Naples terms and including private debt. c. After rescheduling on Naples terms and excluding
private debt. d. After rescheduling in Naples terms and as a percent of three year moving average of exports of goods and non-factor services. e.
After rescheduling on Naples terms. Reflects debt forgiveness under original HIPC Initiative. f, Excluding IMF and including debt relief on current
payments. g. Includes the US$150 million grant underthe Economic ManagementReform Operation provided as HIPC Initiative interim
assistance.
- 64 -



Annex 11: Financial Management Action Plan
MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
A  GENERAL
During the execution of the Project, MIREME will establish and maintain a Mining Project
Coordination Unit (UCPM). Under the supervision of the Project Coordinator, the UCPM
will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures will be
acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating Partners.
The principal objective of the UCPM's financial management system (FMS) will be to
support management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring
economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired
outcomes, that will serve the needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS
must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial
information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the
Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the UCPM to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, it's FMS will be developed
in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Section B below.
B  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Financial Management Committee (FMC)
A FMC (comprising the Project Coordinator, the Project Accountant, the Procurement
Specialist and representatives of the MIREME and the MPF) will be appointed to review the
Project Management Report (PMR) every quarter. The PMR will comprise:
Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the FMC will review and approve
Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances
between budget/actual figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed
timeframe.
Project Progress, i.e. Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the
OMR will need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the
accompanying narrative interpreting the Project's progress with agreed financial
performance indicators and how costs to date relate to those planned at appraisal, and the
likely effect on the Project by completion.
Procurement Management Report (including Goods, Works and Services).
Staffing
A Project Accountant will be appointed to direct and guide the financial operations.
Relevantly qualified/experienced support staff will be available. Varying levels of staff
training may be required in financial, management and government accounting; information
systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to the utilization of funds (e.g.
Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching
will also be provided.
- 65 -



Accounting System/Financial Procedures Manual
A Financial Management Consultant will be retained to advise on the selection and
installation of the Project's computerized FMS (using an integrated accounts package), to
prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual and to train staff in the operation of the
system. Provision has been made in the Budget for hardware and software requirements.
Planning and Budgeting
Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the Government's budgetary process. The
Project Accountant, in consultation with the Project Coordinator, the Procurement Specialist
and the FMC, will be responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow
Forecast in line with generally accepted accounting practice.
GovernmentAccounting-Cash Versus Accruals Bases
The UCPM will meet the MPF's (Treasury's) requirement for cash accounting. This
requirement is not expected to change in the short to medium-term.  Thus, for the
foreseeable future, Project funds will be accounted for on a cash basis. In due course, for
management reporting purposes, the FMC will decide whether to convert to an accruals
basis of accounting (whilst maintaining a cash basis for Government reporting purposes).
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
World Bank and Government procurement regulations will be observed. The Project
Accountant and support staff will be conversant with those procedures, as internal control
issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concern to
the financial management function. A Procurement Management Report, showing
procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for consideration
by the FMC (see above).
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Project Implementation Manual.
Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
The UCPM will maintain 4 accounts as follows:
(a) Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/Meticais, which will show:
=' Dollar/Meticais cost of transfers to Part 1 Account with Bank X;
=' Dollar/Meticais cost of direct payments to suppliers;
=> Dollar advances (Meticais equivalent cost) from the IDA Ledger Loan Account;
=> Opening and Closing Balances.
(b) Current Account in Meticais with Bank X (Part 1 Account) to which draw-downs from
the Special Account will be credited once per month (towards the end of the month) in
respect of incurred eligible expenses. Following the immediate payment of those liabilities,
the balance on this account should be zero at the end of each month.
- 66 -



(c) Current Project Account in Meticais with Bank X (Part 2 Account) to which
Counterpart Funding will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and,
thereafter, it will be replenished monthly.
(d) IDA Ledgcr Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Meticais/SDR, which will
show:
=r> Cost of transfers to Bank X;
z:> Cost of direct payments to suppliers;
=> Opening and Closing Balances.
Bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified differences will be expeditiously
investigated. Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements
By credit effectiveness, the UCPM will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World
Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in
the short term, existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook will be followed, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special
Commitments. However, the appointment of the Project Accountant, coupled with the
establishment and development of the UCPM's financial management system, should
facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit
effectiveness.
In due course, the adoption of PMR-based disbursements (which integrates project
accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with physical
progress through the Project Management Report, as summarized above) should enable the
UCPM to move away from voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly
disbursements to the Special Account based on the PMR.
Fixed Assets/Civil Works/Consultants
Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual. A Fixed Assets
Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding Construction/Capital
Work in Progress, controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only for
certified work (including physical verification). A Contracts Register will be maintained for
all contracts with consultants. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement
status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the FMC.
Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Cash Reporting
In compliance with Government reporting requirements, the Project Accountant will be
responsible for preparing a Monthly Return (Statement of Expenses - "Prestacoes de
Contas") to the MPF for consolidation into the National Accounts of Mozambique.
- 67 -



Quarterly/Annually
The Project Financial Statements will include:
*  A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds analyzed by Cooperating
Partner i.e. IDA, Counterpart and Donor Funds;
*  Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
*  Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or
explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management to enhance the
presentation of a "true and fair view";
  A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the
IDA Special Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and
Applications of Funds;
*  SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
*  A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank
publications - Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January
1995), The I,oan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and
the Draft Project Financial Management Manual (February 1999). In due course, the
formats adopted by the FMC will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
External Audit
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved
terms of reference. Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the financial year end. Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial
statements in compliance with International Auditing Standards (IFAC/INTOSAI
pronouncements), the auditor will be required to include a separate paragraph commenting
on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE procedures and the
extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements. Regarding the
Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of
compliance with World Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally, the
auditor will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and
comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records,
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
- 68 -



Annex 11: Guidelines for the Proposed Institutional Reform
MINERAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
I     Introduction
The Government of Mozambique is actively seeking to attract private and foreign investment to
promote growth in the sector. The sector policy, approved on February 1998, by the Council of
Ministers clearly defines the Government's role as a regulator, promoter, facilitator and
supervisor of the mining activities, leaving the operational and implementation role to the private
sector. Because of the country's geological potential and Government's pragmatic approach to the
implementation of the sector policy, investors have shown positive interest in terms of
exploration and development of some projects.
However, foreign investment in mining projects development has yet to materialize. The major
constraints for the promotion of private investment in the development of new projects have been
identified by MIREME and The World Bank as: (i) insufficient geological information available
on the mineral potential of the country; (ii) a deficient legal and regulatory framework; (iii) the
lack of capacity of government institutions in the mining sector; and (iv) the lack of
infrastructure.
Modern and effective Public Mining Institutions (PMIs) with clear mandates, responsibilities and
authorities are essential to encourage a sustainable private-sector-led mining industry. Therefore,
the institutional reform of the PMIs constitutes a major component of the implementation of the
Government's mineral policy.
PMIs reform and strengthening has been a major concern within many World Bank financed
projects throughout the world. Within this context, this experience has shown that the reform of
the PMIs has been determinant for the successful sustainable development of the mining sector
through the promotion of private investments.
On the base of this experience, it has been established that the main functions of the PMIs should
be focused on:
*  the establishment of sectorial policy, goals and strategy;
*  the definition and enforcement of norms and regulations;
*  the administration of mining rights;
*  the protection of the environment;
*  the promotion of private mining initiatives and investments, and
*  the provision of reliable geological and technical information
Four key mining sector institutions have been identified, namely: (i) a Ministry or Department of
Mines to act as the political head of the sector; (ii) a Mining Cadastre Office to administer mining
rights; (iii) a Mining Directorate to enforce mines and minerals, advise the ministry on the
establishment of the mineral policy and monitor the development of the sector. The Mining
- 69 -



Directorate should also contribute to monitor and regulate the environmental performance of the
sector through a mining environment office; (iii) a Geological Survey to provide the geological
infrastructure to motivate and facilitate the private investments in mineral exploration.
The separation of the granting and control functions is applied world wide as a basic rule for
institutional reforms to prevent any potential conflict of interest between these two functions. As
part of this rule it is recommended that Mining Cadastre Office (MCO) shall be completely
independent of the institution charged to enforce the mining regulations to ensure the adequate
differentiation of the concepts of mining property and the mining activity carried out on the
property. Optimally the dependency of MCO should be placed at the highest level of hierarchy
within the public administration and outside the political influence and have an independent
status similar to the judicial power. However, in practice in various countries the MCO depend
directly from the Minister of Mines but is independent of the Mining Directorate responsible for
the control and enforcement of the mining regulation.
The role of a Geological Survey (GS) is to develop and maintain a reliable earth science database.
The GS should provide the basic geological knowledge for the mineral industry, other national
planning needs, and be active in the promotion of mining investment. The GS should be
dedicated to applied research and should produce and publish maps and data that are relevant to
industry and the planning authorities. The reform of a Geological Survey aims at transforming an
exploration-oriented organisation into one, which gathers, orders and provides nationwide earth
science information. This implies a change from a generally closed organisation (exploration
information is normally considered confidential) to one with a transparent and open information
policy.
II    The Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MIREME)
The actual MIREME's organisation comprises four national directorates: (i) National Directorate
of Mines (DNM); (ii) National Directorate of Geology (DNG); (iii) National Directorate of Coal
and Hydrocarbons (DNCH); and (iv) National Directorate of Energy (DNE), see figure 1 below.
Moreover, three autonomous institutions belong to MIREME: the National Development Fund,
the National Fund for Energy and the National Museum of Geology. The administrative
decentralisation of MIREME responsibilities is achieved through ten Provincial Directorates. The
Provincial Directorates depend administratively of the provincial Governor but technically of
MIREME.
The institutional reform will be directed primarily to the mining and geological institutions of
MIREME including the National Directorate of Mines, the National Directorate of Geology the
Mining Development Fund, the National Museum of Geology and the Provincial Directorates.
The other institutions shall not be considered at this stage.
- 70 -



Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy
|Vice-Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy
Miiser Cabirectorate of Economics 
| Dept.ofHum.n g: . ~~~~~~~~~Dept. of Administration
Dept.of Human                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~and Finance
National Directorate    National Directorate  National Directorate   National Directorate
of Mines            of Geology        of Coal and Hydrocarbons      of Energy
Provincial Directorates of Mineral Resources and Energy
Niassa, Cabo Delgado, Nampula, Zambezia, Tete, Manica,
Sofala, Inhambane, Gaza, Maputo
Dependent Institutions
Mining Development Fund        National Fund for Energy   National Museum of Geology
Figure 1     Actual organisation of MIREME
III   National Directorate of Mines (DNM)
The fundamental mission of the DNM is focused on providing the leadership in the management
and responsible use of the national mineral resources. Within this mandate, the DNM is primarily
responsible for the enforcement of the mining and environmental regulations.
The private sector-led development of the mining activities has proven to be very effective world-
wide in terms of boosting the investments in the mining sector. However, the orderly
development of the mining sector requires that the promotion of private investments should be
accompanied by the imp]ementation of a sound development policy, and increased institutional
efficiency for enforcement of the mining and environmental regulations. In this respect the
National Directorate of Mines play an essential role to ensure the orderly growth of the sector.
As discussed above, the Mining Cadastre Office should optimally be placed outside the DNM.
However, in the case of Mozambique, due to the recent opening and growth of the mining sector
there is a lack of institutional capacity and trained staff to manage an independent cadastre. In this
situation the mining cadastre needs the backing and the experience and knowledge of the DNM in
- 71 -



the short-term. The establishment of an independent mining cadastre office should be thus
planned at long-term once the institutional capacity building has been achieved. In the meantime,
the separation of the granting of mineral rights from the control functions will be achieved
through the creation of a Mining Cadastre Department within the DNM clearly separated from
the units responsible for the inspection.
Another particularity of the mining sector of Mozambique is the so far leading role of the small-
scale and artisanal mining sector. This sector offers rural employment and constitutes an
important component of the social development of the society. However, artisanal mining also
produces very serious negative environmental impacts and cultural and social potential conflicts
with the native population. Due to its social component the small-scale and artisanal mining
sector cannot be ignored or excluded from the mining policy of the Government. Therefore, there
is a need to: (i) increase awareness of technical and environmental issues and get a better
understanding of the present social and economical impacts (both costs and benefits) of small-
scale and artisanal mining; (ii) prepare baseline studies and sector assessments; (iii) test
innovative approaches in pilot projects; and (iv) develop participative approaches with affected
communities. These tasks belong also to the functions of the DNM and have to be considered
within the institutional reform.
In line with the above, the proposed new organisation for the DNM (see figure 2 below)
comprises five departments: (i) the Mining Cadastre department, responsible for all the activities
related to mineral titles granting, conservation and extinction; (ii) the Mine Safety Department,
with the duty to enforce the mine safety and environmental regulations; (iii) the Technical and
Economic Department responsible for the appraisal of the technical reports sent by the mining
companies, keeping the sector's economic statistics (production, investments, royalties), the
investment obligations, and carry out promotional activities; (iv) the Small Scale Mining
Department, responsible to promote the formalisation of the illegal miners, provide technical
assistance and training to the small scale and artisanal miners, to improve the awareness for the
protection of the environment and better use of the mineral resources; and (v) the Department of
Environment responsible for elaboration of the mining environmental regulation, the
establishment of the environmental licensing procedures and the participation in their application
together with the Ministry of Environmental Coordination (MICOA) and the development,
actualisation and administration of the Environmental Management and Information System. As
part of these responsibilities the department will promote the realisation of environmental audits
and base line studies to upgrade the knowledge of the environmental conditions of the mining
areas.
The Mining Cadastre Department comprises two sections (i) the licensing; and (ii) the mining
register.
The licensing section is responsible for all legal aspects related to the granting or cancellation of
the mineral rights as well as the control of the payment of the exploration/mining fees. This
section also shall advise the National Director in case of legal dispute concerning the mineral
rights. The Licensing section will also control the payment of the exploration and mining fees and
inform the National Director of any incompliance in the payment of the fees.
- 72 -



National Directorate of Mines
National Director
Deputy National Director|
|CAdministration/  ntlgllandvion
F   sercrtariat
Department of a     Department of mini  Teghni cal and teh  Small Scale Mining    i thDepartment ofgl
psMining Cadastre    Mine Safety   a   Economic Deepartment an Department o a       Environmented
Sections         Sectiofs            Sections              Sections             Sections
groundandthecoordinationwiththe Licensing      Sectione fo te vn of te lEgial r
T  evaluatrions t
Theining Depar t of Mirne fent   is rl  frInvestment       | Socment   l m        EnvionmnSt  f
m   Contrep  and e.t  p      cnalizd  y  n    at   Snctio
propery itsef. Theactiviies ofthe Deartmen wilb arEd n ounanydhog   th _Poincia
statin ils            Studies              Impact
sigure 2      Proposed organisation for the National Directorate of Mines
The Mining Register section is responsible for the cartographic control of the geographical
location and time validity of mining rights. It is a technical unit specialised in the geographical
positioning of the mineral titles and the development and actualisation of a specifically adapted
Geographical Information Systems (GIS) linked to a database of mining licenses. The Mining
Register shall be responsible for the reception of the applications and the preservation of the
sequential priority of the applications through the inscription in the reception book, the
application of the cadastral procedure including the determination of the availability of free
ground and the coordination with the Licensing Section for the verification of the legal requisites.
The Mining Register shall also be responsible for the recommendation to the National Director of
all actions concerning the mining rights including award and cancellation if necessary.
The Department of Mine Safety is responsible for the enforcement of mining regulations for
mineral exploration and exploitation. Any infraction will be penalized by administrative sanctions
leading up to the suspension of the activities or the operation but without effect on the mining
property itself. The activities of the Department will be carried out mainly through the Provincial
Directorates staff, according to the mining regulation. The Departmnent shall coordinate and
supervise the safety and environmental inspections carried out by the Provincial Directorates and
in case of complains be the second instance of appeal within the administrative system.
- 73 -



As part of its functions, the Department of Mine Safety shall: (i) propose the creation,
actualisations and improvements of the mining regulations (safety, environment) and ensure their
compatibility with the regulations of the other governmental sectors; (ii) evaluate the yearly
work-programme presented by the mining companies in compliance of the Mining Law; (iii)
enforce the respect of the regulations through in-situ inspections in coordination and
collaboration with the Provincial Directorates; (iv) monitor the start of operations of new mining
exploitations; (v) control the accomplishment of the mine closure plans and land reclamation; (vi)
resolve disputes between mining operators, local communities and NGOs regarding
environmental and safety matters; (vii) maintain actualised the inspection records in the
environmental database of the DNM.
The Technical and Economic Department is primarily responsible for the monitoring of the
technical and economical development of the sector and the production of statistical data
illustrating this development. The Department will also survey the international technical
developments and promote suitable technologies for modem mining and mineral processing,
better recovery and protection of the environment. Promote the national production of industrial
minerals that are presently imported. The department is also responsible to centralize and
appraise the technical reports sent by the mining companies in compliance with the Mining Law.
Beside these function, the department shall develop, actualise and administrate of the mining
statistics database, which will be alimented with the data of the small scale mining sector as well
as the information of the industrial operations gathered in the reports. It is of outmost importance
for the Government to hAve actualised statistical information on the development of the sector.
The Technical and Economic Department shall also be responsible for the activities for
promotion of private investment in the mining sector. The promotion functions shall comprise the
preparation of promotiea material and information as well as the contact with the private sector
through the participation to international congresses and events. The department will also
maintain permanent con iact with the private sector in Mozambique to get the feedback of the
impact of the mining policy on the sectorial development and prepare information and
recommendations to the National Director concerning the actualisation of the mining policy.
Provide information to the potential investors regarding the legal and fiscal framework, statistics
and investment opportunities in Mozambique and prepare pamphlets and brochures to publicise
the mining investment opportunities.
The Small Scale Mining Department will be responsible in general for the assistance to the small
scale miners and the promotion of their normalisation within the legal framework. It will also
establish relationship with relevant regional and international small-scale mining organisations as
well as establish cooperation ties and Small Scale mining Networks for experience exchange and
information dissemination. It is comprised by two main sections being: The Technical Assistance
Section and the Social and Economic Studies Section.
The responsibilities of Technical assistance Section shall comprise : (i) Establish and maintain
actualised the demarcation of the small scale mining areas at the national level; (ii) Promote the
formalisation and control the small scale mining activity by issuing mining certificate within
defined areas in collaboration with the mining cadastre and the Provincial Directorates; (iii)
- 74 -



Promote the organisation of the small scale mining under ancestral structures, local authorities or
committees to improve coordination and regulations enforcement; (iv) Promote the association of
small scale miners within cooperatives to improve the technical and management skills and
facilitate the access to financing; (v) Provide technical advice, technical assistance and training
on small-scale mining and disseminate appropriate mining and processing methods for an
environmental friendly activity; (vi) Provide extension services and equipment support to legal
and organised small scale mining activity; (vii) Provide assistance and training in the area of
mineral product marketing and support structures to facilitate the commercialisation of mineral
products; (viii) Encourage the development of local and sustainable mining products
manufactures to create downstream diversified job alternatives both to improve the local
alternative employment generation and consumption of local products and add value to the
mineral products; (ix) Identify any environmental constrains on artisanal mining activities related
to mining and processing methods used and look for alternative measures to overcome those
problems by providing the basis of ways of environment management programs; (x) Encourage
the growth of artisanal mining entrepreneur to a well-organised private small company in order to
achieve a long-term social environmental and economic sustainability.
The Social and Economic Studies Section will be responsible to carry out general and specific
studies and surveys to understand the social and economical implications of the small scale
mining as well as to promote the integration of artisanal mining development in the community.
The specific duties comprise: (i) carry out social cultural and economic base line survey of
artisanal mining areas; (ii) carry out specialised studies (e.g migration, conflicts, cultural aspects,
gender, education, health, etc.); (iii) carry out research on social and economic impacts of the
artisanal mining on the development of the communities; (iv) carry out research on alternative
sustainable activities to mining; (v) identify the social and economical indicators for the
monitoring of the artisanal mining activities; (vi) monitor the artisanal mining sector through the
use of defined indicators; (vii) identify social pattern, social and economic structures of the
informal mining in the different regions of the country; (viii) organise workshops and seminars
within the local communities to disseminate the results and implications of the social and
economic researches and raise the social awareness for the problems of the sector
The Department of Environment would be an essential technical interface between the mining
industry and the national environmental authorities. Its main tasks would include development of
sector specific environmental regulations and standards, the establishment of adequate procedures
and guidelines, training of sector specialists, and monitoring of mining activities. The
dissemination of information for public consumption would also be part of its mandate.
At the adviser level, the legal advisory will be in charge of providing legal advice to the National
Directorate of Mines, drafting legal documents that may be relevant to the activities of the
Directorate and the provide legal advice and assistance requested by the Director.
The proposed organisation provides for the separation of the mining title licensing and
enviromnental licensing related functions from the enforcement of the safety and environmental
regulations by the Department of Mine Safety and Environment.
- 75 -



IV    National Directorate of Geology (DNG)
The actual organisation of the DNG is oversized compared to the availability of public funds and
is not adjusted to the new role of the State of promoting investments into mineral and energy
exploration and exploitation, the regulating of economic activities and the promoting of poverty
reduction in a market-oriented economy. This organisation is not adapted to the need of the
country and will not be sustainable in the future.
The DNG organisation needs to be simplified by trimming off the services not related to its
fundamental core research mandate and is oversized with respect to the actual and foreseen level
of activity like the Department of Transport and Works. Other sections like the National
Laboratory also need to be right-sized to be sustainable and in order to focus on the appropriate
analytical services to sustain the core mandate of the DNG. This will also reduce unfair
competition with the private sector.
Under the new role of the State, the fundamental mandate of the DNG can be defined as to
provide Mozambique with a comprehensive geosciences knowledge infrastructure contributing to
economic development, public safety and environmental protection by acquiring, interpreting and
disseminating geosciences information concerning the geological environment and mineral
potential of the country.
Its core responsibilities are:
1.    To systematically map the geology, tectonic framework, metallogeny, geochemistry etc.,
of Mozambique with a view to promote investments, safe land use etc. Such information must be
available to the public;
2.    To develop an understanding of the nature, quantity, distribution and formation of the
country mineral and energy resources;
3.    To develop an understanding of the geological processes with a view to applying this
knowledge to mitigate their adverse effects on the society;
4.    To maintain a National Geosciences Data-base (including appropriate archives and
reference collections), ensuring that all information is available as maps, reports or computerized
databases in a timely fashion. Also to manage the physical samples repositories - borehole core /
Museum etc.
The DNG should supply the fundamental national geosciences infrastructure knowledge required
to support effective mineral exploration, and to provide the geological basis necessary to
understand and address health, safety and environmental issues within the framework of the
social and economical development of the country. Specifically the DNG, through the provision
of the basic geological infrastructure, should support the mining development of the country by
- 76 -



private companies and not enter in competition with the private sector. Nevertheless the DNG
should also support the private and public sector in providing expertise and intellectual input
because of the limited availability of the necessary specialized services and expertise in the
country.
The proposed structure of the DNG, to adequately perform the functions of the institution for its
fundamental mandate, comprises five main departments (see figure below): i) economic geology,
dedicated to the understanding of the mineral resources and geothermal potential of the national
territory; ii) regional geology, dedicated to the geological, geophysical and thematical mapping of
the country; iii) applied geology, to insure the knowledge of the geological and hydrogeological
conditions that may affect the social and economical development as well as provide the surficial
geological information essential in many environmental studies; and iv) services supporting the
geological investigations of the other departments and comprising the computerised mineral
information system, the remote sensing unit, , the cartographic and GIS services, the
documentation centre responsible for the collection and management of the geosciences
information and the drilling unit for water research; and v) the national laboratory. The two latter
departments comprises essentially internal services not intended to be commercially marketed.
The DNG will continue to have regional offices in the areas of high mining potential to provide a
logistical base to support the field activities of DNG, carry out the permanent mapping tasks, and
collect data from the companies active in exploration in the region. The regional offices will
depend both administratively and financially from the Provincial Directorates. However, they
shall liaise with the DNG and promote the participation of the staff of the DNG in the geological
investigation. The permanent staffing of the regional offices will limited (e.g. 3 scientists and one
secretary) but will host the personnel in mission from the DNG during the field seasons.
- 77 -



National Directorate of Geology
National Director
Deputy National Director-
Secretariat                            C
Project administration
Finance & Personal Administanon;
Transport & Cummunication
Economic Geology    Regional Geology     Applied Geology    Geological Services | National Laboratory
Metallic Mineral    Geological Mapping   Engineering Geology &  Cartography, GIS &  Sample preparetion
Ressources.                              Geotechnics        Remote Sensing.
Geophysical Survey                                          Mineralogy/Petrographv
Non Metallic & Industrial                Environmental and  Topograpy
Mineral Resources.  Seismic & magnetism  Marine Geology                          Chemical analysis
Monitoring.                             Mineral Information
Geothermal Energy                        Hydrogeology       System (MIS).
Resources;
Mineral Water                                               Documentation Center
Geochemical Survey                                          Drilling Unit
Figure 3       Proposed Organisation for the National Directorate of Geology
The different functions of the work areas below the upper management level shown in the above
figure shall be performed by functional staff units or sections. The structure, composition and
staffing of the sections will be defined at a later stage as part of the institutional reform.
The geological and thematical mapping comprise routine, systematic mapping and interpreting
the geology of the country. The establishment and maintenance of a standardized stratigraphical
scheme as well as the publishing the national geological maps at various scales will be carried out
in cooperation and coordination with other geosciences institutions. The function of the
Department of Regional Geology shall be dedicated to the production of the basic geological
knowledge infrastructure of the country and as such shall coordinate the definition of the
stratigraphical scheme of the geology of Mozambique.
The tasks to be developed within this function comprise: i) systematic geological mapping and
interpretation for the geological maps of Mozambique; ii) production of thematic maps related to
the geology, metallogeny and other aspects; and iii) the research related to the definition of the
stratigraphical framework of Mozambique and the coordination of the establishment and
actualisation of the stratigraphical code in cooperation with the other geological institutions and
universities.
The geophysical group as part of the Department of Regional Geology will be responsible for the
planning and execution of geophysical works (regional airborne and ground) in support of
geological mapping and all tasks of other Departments where necessary.
- 78 -



Concerning airborne geophysics, the group is primarily responsible to plan, setting standards for
and undertaking contracted airborne geophysical surveys. This group will not carry out
geophysical airborne programmes on its own, but will plan and supervised airborne geophysical
surveys contracted to private enterprises and financed primarily with external funds. When
needed, the group will also perform limited ground geophysical investigations with its own
equipment and personnel in support to specific geological or metallogenetical investigations.
Commodity studies carried out by the Department of Economic Geology aim to provide expert
geological information to the industry, and individuals to encourage and aid in the development
of the country's mineral resources and maintain the inventory of known mineral occurrences. The
major goal is to develop an understanding of the nature, quantity, distribution and formation of
mineral resources within the national territory. The scope of activity covers investigations and
expertise concerning metallic as well as non metallic and industrial minerals (including
documentation of existing deposits).
The scope of work of regional geochemistry is similar to the airborne geophysics in the sens that
this group will mainly plan and set the standards of the major geochemical programmes to be
carried out by contracted companies. However, it may carry out some limited regional
geochemical sampling to be analysed in the national laboratory of the DNG in support to
geological or metallogenetetical investigations. This function will also comprise the storage and
diffusion of the results of the regional geochemical programmes (including the programmes
realised in the past).
Both the geophysics and geochemistry groups shall be responsible to collect, archive and compile
the airborne geophysical and geochemical data delivered to the DNG by the private companies in
conformity to the disposition of the mining act as well as to contribute to the investigations,
studies and expertise carried out by the Department of Applied Geology.
Due to missing capacities of private services in Mozambique, the National Laboratory, the
geophysical and geochemical groups as well as the applied geology will have to support the
private sector of Mozambique if demand exists.
The commodity studies will comprise the assessment of the application in Mozambique of
geological mineral deposits and exploration models, multidisciplinary commodity studies, define
the metallogenic provinces, and the national mineral commodities geological information. The
objective of these functions is to build up the knowledge at national and regional levels on the
mineral resources potential and to publish metallogenic maps.
It is the task of the Department of Applied Geology to utilize the knowledge of the geological and
hydrogeological conditions in giving expertise to projects of public concern as for example
planning and implementation of infrastructure projects, land use planning, urban development,
prevention of geo-hazards and environmental protection. By creating a Department of Applied
Geology the DNG complies with the growing importance of geoscientific expertise as part of an
interdisciplinary approach in the prevention of geo-hazards, environmental management and
enviromnental protection in general. Consequently the Department of Applied Geology can
- 79 -



contribute actively to public health and safety as well as to an environmental sound and
sustainable development and last but not least to significant cost savings.
The scope of work of the department will comprise baseline surveys, thematical mapping, case
studies, expertise and participation in EIA's (for public projects only) and in interdisciplinary
workgroups. The subdivision of the department reflects the fields of works which are necessary to
comply with its various tasks.
In order to understand the behaviour of soil and rock in general and under certain impact the
engineering geology has to investigate their basic geomechanical caracteristics. These data and
their interpretation regarding soil/rock stability, environmental vulnerability and geo-hazard have
to be made available systematically especially in form of thematic maps. Thus the activities of
engineering geology combine the more traditional approach of providing basic data of soil and
rock behaviour with the environmental related consequences and with the appropriate
geotechnical methods of prevention and intervention.
The environmental geology follows the interdisciplinary approach which is absolutely necessary
in modem environmental protection politics. There is almost no environmental study which does
not require geoscience related input. Therefore the environmental geologist has to participate
actively and has to be integrated in the environmental studies. In order to be able to do so the staff
geologists need to be trained adequately. The environmental geologist might take the leadership
in environmental studies where geological and /or hydrogeological conditions are the dominating
influencing parameters. The environmental geology makes use of any available information and
data of the other sections of the department as well as of the other departments.
The geohazards study will be orientated towards assessing the vulnerability of all urbanised and
semi-urbanised areas to the effects of geohazards such as earthquakes, landslides and flooding
directed at providing planners and emergency managers with information that will aid in
mitigating the effects of geological hazards. This work is aimed at developing a better
understanding of the elements at risk in urban communities and in their vulnerability to the
impact of geohazards. The Department should also underpin land-use planning to reduce
development costs, avoid sterilisation of resources and assist to identify possible construction
material potentials around towns and cities.
The purpose of geological hazards study is to provide engineers, planners, decision-makers and
the general public with the geosciences information required for sound regional planning of
densely populated areas of the country, to support the establishment of local economic
development, the supply of construction material re-use identify waste disposal sites, cemeteries
etc.
Taking in consideration the importance of the marine ecosystem of Mozambique with its exposed
coastal zone the marine geology has to complete the sector of environmental geology. A profound
knowledge of the marine and coastal geology is necessary to satisfy economic interests without
running the risk of irreparable damage to the sensitive coastal and marine environment. Therefore
marine geology will have to collect data from on- and off-shore exploration companies in order to
elaborate thematic maps.
- 80 -



The sector of hydrogeology will have to provide general information and basic data about the
hydrogeological settings countrywide and at local level. In order to do so it has to cooperate
closely with other institutions concerned with groundwater exploration and water supply.
Groundwater is one of the most important sources of drinking water and therefore needs the
highest possible protection against any kind of contamination. Groundwater also plays an
important role in the development of many Geo-hazards especially landslides. The section of
hydrogeology therefore will have to contribute to the understanding of groundwater dynamics by
carrying out investigations utilizing the appropriate methods. The resulting hydrogeologic data
will have to be incorporated in the overall thematic mapping including geotechnical and
environmental data and showing the regional risc of geo-hazards and environmental
(groundwater) vulnerability.
The mission of the Department of Applied Geology corresponds to the Public Services the State
is obliged to provide to the society and in this sense this mission is part of the intrinsic duty of the
Government. It is an area into which most of the Geological Surveys of the world have expanded
their activities and will also have a growing importance in the development of geological
institutions in Mozambique in the future.
The Department of Geological Services, as stated above, comprises all the internal services
needed by the DNG to carry out its duties.
Cartography, remote sensing and its application in geographical information systems (GIS) will
form a strong service in order to support the work of the other departments. The scope of work of
this service area comprises mainly the production of thematical maps at all necessary scales using
the input of the three departments and the tools of remote sensing and GIS wherever applicable
and in close cooperation with the MIS team.
The mineral information (MIS) system shall be responsible for the management and maintenance
of the computerized information system of the DNM, set the standards for the codification of the
data, verify the quality of the data and assist the production units in using and feeding the system.
The unit responsible of the production of the data will perform the data entry and the mineral
information system team shall not interfere in the production work. The team shall only see that
the system works, assist the geologist for the digital cartography and also facilitate the access to
the data by authorized users. As part of the mineral information system, a remote sensing unit
will be developed to assist the geological, environmental and geohazards investigations. The
remote sensing team shall not realise investigations on its own, they shall only assist the
geologists in using the remnote sensing tools.
The documentation centre of the DNG shall carry out the collection and management of the
geosciences information. The Documentation Centre shall be responsible for the classification
and conservation of the maps and reports result of the investigations of the DNG as well as the
management of the bibliographical database of the institution.
The drilling unit will support the other departments in their need of sampling or testing in the
field. The unit won't be equipped to carry out large scale exploration drillings. The scope of work
will be limited to shallow drillings at small diameters in order to carry out groundwater sampling,
aquifer testing and rock sampling during commodity studies.
- 81 -



The Department of the National Laboratory shall be responsible to provide elemental analytical
capabilities, sample preparation for geochemistry, mineralogy and petrography in support to
DNG duties. It will provide the indispensable basic analytical services for the in house geological
and geochemical works. Large batches of samples collected within projects with external
financing shall be sent to commercial laboratories. The samples that have been analysed in the
National Laboratory, the samples that have been sent to external laboratories and other samples
like borehole core shall be kept in samples repositories under the responsibilities of the National
Laboratory.
V     Provincial Direciorates
The MIREME's organisation comprise 10 provincial directorates (Niassa, Cabo Delgado,
Nampula, Zambezia, Tete, Manica, Sofala, Inhambane, Gaza, Maputo) and the Ciy of Maputo
that have the status of Province.The Provincial Directorates represent in the Province the
functions of MIREME and their basic organisation comprise a Provincial Director and two
departments (Department of Mineral Resources and Department of Energy) and the
administrative staff.
The Provincial Directorates form part of the Provincial Government to which they respond
administratively and finanicially. For technical matters the Provincial Directorate respond to
MIREME and in the technical and functional aspects relating to the mining cadastre, mine safety
and assistance to small seale and artizanal miners, they are coordinated (as "lateral coordination")
with the National Directorate of Mines.
Regarding cadastral activities, the Provincial Directorates only receive the applications and
transmit them to the DNM in Maputo for processing. The date of the application, for sequential
priority purpose, is the date the application has been received at the DNM in Maputo. The
Provincial Directorates do not carry out activities related to the mining cadastre that is centralized
in Maputo but they do have copies of the cadastre maps for consultation of the interested parties.
However, the cadastre maps of the Provincial Directorate are never completely actualised as the
licensing process is conducted in Maputo.
'rhe Provincial Directorates have also personnel affected to the other responsibilities of the DNM
such as the mines safety and the assistance to the small and artizanal miners. However, due to the
lack of equipment and economical resources activities in these fields are very scarce and most of
the field work is carried out from Maputo.
The DNG is also represented within the Provincial Directorates, however most of the activities of
the DNG in the field are supported by its own regional offices with direct hierarchical and
financial dependence.
Regarding the new organisational structure of the Provincial Directorates, the limited staff
available does not justify a complex structure. Moreover, due to the same reason the organisation
does not play an important role in the function of the Provincial Directorates. The limited staff
and economical resources oblige the Provincial Directorates to work on the basis of multi-
- 82 -



displinary teams with several functions attributed assigned to the same staff. Beside the Provinces
with high mining activity (specially small scale and artizanal mining), the volume of work of
most of the Provincial Directorates does not justify a big team of professionals. The institutional
strengthening of the Provincial Directorates should be placed on the training of the staff and the
equipment, the organisation in this case has a secondary priority.
The only function that requires a specific personnel is the mining cadastre. Therefore, within the
structure of the Provincial Directorates a mining cadastre unit shall be individualised preferably
under the direct dependence of the Provincial Director. This structural change is important and
will prepare the institution for assuming an increasing importance and at long-term the
autonomous management of the mineral resources of the Province with their own mining cadastre
under the supervision of the DNM.
The rest of the functions (mine safety and small scale and artizanal mining) shall be carried out
by the Mineral Resources Department of the Provincial Directorate without an internal structure,
only on the basis of identified responsible within the Department. The same staff shall be
responsible to carry out the geological work in the province and coordinate with the DNG central
or regional offices. The schematic structure proposed for the regional offices is illustrated in
figure 4 below.
The functions of the mining cadastre unit shall be in the short-term to interface with the miners
and mining companies, receive the applications for mining titles, transmit them to the DNM in
Maputo and maintain the provincial cadastral system actualised in close collaboration with the
DNM in Maputo. In the long-term, these functions will progressively tend to be similar to the
functions of the Mining Cadastre Department of the DNM and include the administration of the
mineral rights. The provincial mining cadastre unit shall inform the Mineral Resources
Department of any new mining titles in the Province for the corresponding inspection and follow
up.
- 83 -



Provincial Directorates
I Provincial Director
Mining Cadastre |                            Administration, finances
Unit                                   and human ressources
I                                              I1
Mineral Resources Department                           Energy Department
Functions:
Mines inspection (safety and
Environment
Assistance to small scale and artizanal miners
Figure 4    Schematic structure of the Provincial Directorates
The institutional strengthening of the Provincial Directorates concerning functions of mines
safety and artizanal miners assistance has been set as a short-term priority by the Government.
The Provincial Directorates, because of shorter travel distance to the mining areas, should be able
to perform with higher efficiency and frequency the mine safety and the assistance to the small
scale and artizanal miners. Within this latter field, MIREME has the intention to establish in the
Provincial Directorates a small laboratory as part of the extension services to the small scale and
artizanal miners.
The Provincial Directorates, due to their proximity of the mining areas, will have an important
contribution to the field inspection and education to enforce mining law and regulations, and to
increase mining safety and reduce negative impacts on environment, especially in areas of small-
scale mining.
- 84 -



The functions of the provincial Mineral Resources Department shall be similar to the
corresponding departments of the DNM but include more field work carried out under the
supervision and coordination of the DNM.
The DNG will continue to have regional offices in the areas of extensive geological mapping or
investigation. Therefore, there is no urgent need for a geological section in the Provincial
Directorates. However, following the decentralisation tendency and the progressive autonomous
management of the provincial mineral resources, it is important that the Provincial Directorates
acquire experience and knowledge in the geological fields and participate to the activities carried
by the DNG the provincial territory. Therefore, it is essential that the Provincial Directorates have
at least one geologist with knowledge in geological mapping and investigation to be the
counterpart of the DNG and advise the Provincial Government for the planning of the
development of the provincial geological infrastructure. This personnel could belong either to the
mine safety or the small scale mining sections shall form the counterpart of the DNG concerning
the provincial planes of geological infrastructure (geological mapping, geophysics, etc..).
In the short-term and medium-term, the cadastre functions shall continue to be centralized in the
DNM in Maputo. However, in the long-term, the Provincial Directorates shall take an increasing
participation and autonomy in the administration of the provincial mineral resources.
Decentralisation of the central Government functions is an irreversible process going on in most
of the countries world wide and it would be short sighted to ignore it. However, even when fully
decentralised, the cadastre functions of the Provincial Directorates will remain under the
coordination of the DNM in Maputo to preserve the homogeneity of the process throughout the
whole country.
Therefore, the new organisation of the Provincial Directorates shall account for the growing
importance of the cadastre functions also leading in the long term to the formation of an
independent provincial cadastre office acting with the technical assistance, supervision and
coordination of the DNM. The decentralisation of the mining cadastre in the long term requires
the immediate strengthening of the cadastre functions of the Provincial Directorates through
training of the staff and computerisation for the processing of the application as well as for the
communication with the national cadastre in Maputo.
VI   Mining Development Fund
The Mining Development Fund (FDM) was established in 1988 to assist the development of
small-scale and Artizanal mining in a variety of ways. It receives 25% of the mining license fees
and royalty. While such assistance is well intended, it implies potential overlap and duplication
of functions with the DNM making two institutions apparently seeking to undertake the same sort
of activities.
The Mining Development Fund shall centralize all revenues and allocate them to the different
services according to predefined criteria. The fund shall be supervised by a board extended to
private sector and the civil society that will define policies, approve budget, review accounts and
external audits and evaluate results. The staffing of the fund will comprise a small team of
professionals headed by a full time Executive Director. The fund shall organize a Technical
- 85 -



Committee to revise and evaluate the investment proposals. This committee shall comprise
professionals from the DNM and DNG as well as representants of the private sector.
The by laws and functions of the Mining Development Fund will be defined as part of the
institutional consultancies and workshop to be carried out within the Project with special attention
to the potential conflict of the mandate and functions between the Mining Development Fund and
the DNM.
VII  National Museum of Geology
The National Museum of Geology has presently an autonomous status depending directly from
MIREME. This status is adequate to manage the museum as a static exposition. However, the
National Museum of Geology should also be a reference institution for geological investigation in
Mozambique permanently actualising the reference collections according to the development of
the geosciences and the geological investigation of the national territory. Moreover, the National
Museum of Geology is responsible for the custody and management of a unique, world-class
gemstone collection requiring an expertise not available within the museum staff.
- 86 -



DEM REF    ILE              N
TAN4ZAMA     0,
t  , ,_    ,TANZANIA   '  A-Ea                                         T A NTANZANIA                                    ,
a,4 1D. *jA M[N WE     $                                  it                                                                '  Murd       ,      y*C1M FOA
f  % ,L 9 bi e -rLAWI                                                                                       P.h'
ZAMBIA                      'J
T E I E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~c-                           I           ot         sr0VF
0       ,                t                V       _           < 4    hES ,tt'.t X c-'                                            -        -     _
\ .LA'K h 9 ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                               )C                                                      F se=z
*Z, A,;                                                  A
RC,~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C4
5----  I-    :\Xr-ut R                   h5\M OZA                                            MBIQUE
MAPOIE ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    aM IN{HASLORO
I N  AMeZAAEI
teww,~~~~~~~~rlg E,7   'MN~/CH       
....4M~ABW~S                                        NDOL' M<A           -S F LAZ                      W -       i          ot
, j ,               MAACAZE       K             N                                      h        roads'
Rail tcorr.or
g   =      ;      ffi   3/'   MASSANGENA            iF       NASSOFO          9  z     t    |        t      t     H3 0                 00   ;
SDi~~~,J                        :         <  rN       E /  iylV,IANKULCr ; ( t                 =                      ,_'N'   -
e~~~~~   0 4,9   \94    <41999 \                 VA    ,B,,  ANE|'00                                                             ..-    
-     5                                        ( MASS IGICj
rac05=bD  = -  i             r          < 'A    ;t   pF _  FUN'IALOURO   -,s     V000i;0     as 
2~~~~~v - r\=t1   q            EAUANE/                                                       ___ /Dist rkttound-&ies                        -:: z= L0
-                        t'            '              .i i\ebu                          --Dndaries boud=i
SOUTh -L_'5<             ,3i *                S%_CHBUTO <      HAEM                             ---        Intentoal budre
;;EX;@=>  '* 't  '  o"IipdlvP y Rnhlo011eWrlAln                                                                                                        2n4,a
M ;    ICK              ' f, l. $t ==UT I 'MAfUTO_
ahs-p s-so    -d   opd As  Uni1 6sf_ C-W ,a Say
U                                                                                                                                       '0~~~~~~~~~ 



