Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3486 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Mineral Resources Management Capacity Building Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  April 18, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3486 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 18, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Artisanal Miners" or "Garimpeiros"” means individuals undertaking 
independent small-scale mining as defined in the Borrower’s Mining Certificate 
Regulation or "Diploma Ministerial" No. 77 of May 25, 1994; 
(b)
"BM" means Banco de Moçambique, the Borrower’s central bank;
(c)
"DNG" means the Borrower’s National Directorate of Geology; 
(d)
"DNM" means the Borrower’s National Directorate of Mines within MIREME;
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means the categories set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for works, goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Special Account’s 
respective Eligible Categories;
(g)
"Implementation Manual" means the Borrower’s Manual dated November 30, 
2000, containing detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of the different 
activities under the Project, including, inter alia, the institutional 
responsibilities, reporting structure, review and monitoring, procurement, 
disbursement and financial management for the purposes of the implementation of the 
Project;
(h)
"Initial Deposit" means the deposit specified in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(i)
"Meticais" means the Borrower’s currency;
(j)
"MICOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environmental Coordination;
(k)
"MIREME" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy;
(l)
"MPF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Finance; 
(m)
"Project Account" means the Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(n)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance means the project preparation advance 
Page  3
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter signed on behalf of 
the Association on February 15, 2001 and on behalf of the Borrower on March 26, 2001;
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(q)
"UCPM" means the Project Coordination Unit to be established by the 
Borrower for the purpose of implementing the Project within MIREME.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million and eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2011, and ending October 1, 2040. Each 
Page  4
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2020, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of United  States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, health, environmental and mineral resources 
sector practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Page  5
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an 
account (the Project Account) in Meticais, in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter make an Initial Deposit in Meticais of an amount 
equivalent to $30,000 (Initial Deposit) into such account to finance the Borrower’s 
contribution to the Project;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by the first day of each 
quarter each year during Project implementation such amounts as shall be required and 
agreed upon with the Association to timely replenish the Project Account back to the 
amount of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b); and
(d)
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
Page  6
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
eighteen months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
consisting of three separate, but coherent reports of which:
(i) 
the financial report: (A) sets forth actual sources and 
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
the status report: (A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets, as the case may be; 
and
(iii) the procurement report sets forth the status of procurement 
under the Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established the UCPM;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed to UCPM a full-time Project Coordinator, a 
Procurement Specialist and a Project Accountant satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has established within UCPM a financial management and 
accounting system acceptable to the Association, including a manual of procedures and 
a Financial Management Committee;
(d)
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement have been 
retained, as provided in such Section and in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(e)
the Project Account has been opened; and
(f)
the Borrower’s new draft Mining Law (Projecto de Lei de Minas) replacing 
the existing Law No.02 of April 16, 1996, has been approved by the Borrower’s Council 
of Ministers and submitted to the Borrower’s Parliament.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  7
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of the Bank of Mozambique of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relaçoes Internacionais
Maputo
Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/BMMO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcus Namashulua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   3,450,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods,
   1,450,000
100% of foreign
including expenditures 
and
field vehicles and
85% of local
computers expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
   4,800,000
100%  
services
(4) 
Training 
   1,380,000
100% 
and workshops
(5)
Publications 
     120,000
100%
(6)
Operating Costs
   1,380,000
90% of expenditures for 
including audits
operating costs and 100% of 
expenditures for audits
(7)
Refinancing of Project
     380,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
     840,000
TOTAL
  13,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by the 
Borrower on account of the Project implementation including management and monitoring, 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel, supervision costs and audits, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
and works costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) contracts for consultants firms 
including audits, training, publications and other services performed by firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for individual consultants, training, 
publications and other services performed by individuals costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; and (d) Operating Costs, excluding audits, all under such terms and 
Page  9
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in US 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  For each payment 
made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as 
the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Eligible Categories" means 
Categories 1 through 6 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
Page  10
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $500,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 
of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Page  11
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the amount of  $500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) developing an 
institutional and regulatory reform designed to promote private investment in the 
mining sector; (ii) building its capacity for environmental and social management in 
the mining sector; (iii) improving its geological and mining information system; and 
(iv) alleviating poverty in small scale and artisanal mining areas.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional and Regulatory Reform 
1.
Legal and Regulatory Reform
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services for the revision of the Mining 
Code aimed at promoting the private mining investments and enterprises, including the 
preparation of new mining legislation and regulations, environmental legislation and 
administrative procedures for the mining sector. 
(b)
The carrying out of consultation events with interested stakeholders in 
the mining sector and public awareness campaigns for the communication of the new 
mining legislation and regulations.
2.
Institution Reform and Capacity Building
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of a new, 
decentralized and client/results oriented  institutional framework for MIREME’s  
mining agencies (DNG and DNM), including the development of  new institutional model, 
its functions, mandates, staffing and estimation of operational budgets. 
(b)
Strengthening of policy making, regulatory and sector management 
capabilities of MIREME. 
(c)
Carrying out the rehabilitation of the existing office facilities in the 
DNG and DNM, including the acquisition of field vehicles and office equipment.
3.
Mining Cadastre
Provision of technical advisory services for the re-organization of  the mining 
cadastre in the DNM and the Provincial Directorates, including: (a) the establishment 
of their organizational functions and working procedures; and (b) the design and 
implementation of a computerized system for the administration of the mining titles, 
including the acquisition of computer (hardware and software), topographical and 
office equipment, and training of staff.
Page  12
4.
Investment Promotion
Establishment of a promotion unit within DNM, including the provision of 
technical advisory services for the training of staff, the preparation and publication 
of promotional material, the provision of technical assistance to MIREME’s and DNM’s 
staff  for the carrying out of international congresses and promotional events for the 
Mining Sector. 
5.
Information Network
Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of a computerized 
information network through the intranet, including the establishment, the 
strengthening and the compatibility of the mining cadastre system, the mineral 
information system and the environmental management system.
Part B:
Geologic Infrastructure
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services for the supervision, 
coordination and evaluation of the activities, consultants and results related to the 
geophysical airborne survey, the geological mapping, the geo-chemical sampling, the 
seismological network, the documentation center, the mineral information system and 
industrial minerals survey. 
(b)
Rehabilitation of buildings for the National Museum of Geology and the 
geophysical airborne survey.
Part C:
Environmental Management System
(a)
Carrying out of environmental baseline studies over selected mining and 
potential mining districts, including the development of a methodology and capacity to  
assess and monitor environmental and social impacts of mining. 
(b)
Development of sector specific environmental regulations and standards, 
including the mitigative and rehabilitating measures for areas where mines are closed. 
(c)
Implementation of procedures and guidelines for the preparation of 
environmental impact studies in mining. 
(d)
Strengthening the MIREME’s Mining Environmental Unit to monitor and 
enforce environmental regulations, including: (i) the creation of an Environmental 
Affairs Unit within the DNM; (ii) the establishment of procedures for environmental 
licensing of  mining activities; (iii) the establishment of cooperation mechanism 
between the mining administration and MICOA; (iv) the development of consultation and 
participatory procedures; and (v) the establishment of an environmental management and 
information system.
Part D:
Sustainability of Small Scale and Artisanal Mining
Strengthening of small scale and artisanal mining through the provision of 
technical advisory services for: (i) small-scale mining enterprise organization, 
management and accounting, including the provision of assistance to encourage the 
formation of cooperatives, improve access to micro-finance and identify possible 
joint-venture operations; (ii) legal and fiscal support, including the promotion of 
the legal formalization of operations; (iii) capacity building on mining methodology, 
geology, metallurgy (mineral processing), infrastructure, mining economics and 
environmental safeguards; (iv) the design and implementation of an environmental 
awareness campaign for the small-scale and artisanal miners; (v) the investigation and 
identification of health hazards related to mining activities and the development of 
remediation measures, including HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention campaigns; and (vi) 
the promotion and implementation of projects aiming at the diversification of economic 
activities through the development of an information and assistance network.
Part E:
Project Coordination and Management
The establishment of a Mining Project Coordination Unit (UCPM) to coordinate 
project implementation and management, including: (i) procurement; (ii) project 
monitoring, reporting and evaluation; (iii) financial management; and (iv) 
coordination with other institutions and agencies.   
Page  13
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and computers shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 but less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $120,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
Page  14
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more but less than $100,000 and smaller items of office equipment, 
furniture, training materials, office supplies and documentation estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or less up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Page  15
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project’s auditors may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical supervision of larger geological and geophysical 
contracts for an estimated aggregate amount of $1,100,000 equivalent, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  16
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Project shall be coordinated by the MIREME.
2.
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in 
carrying out the Project, apply the annual work programs satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
the Borrower shall: (i) not later than three months before the beginning 
of each year, furnish to the Association for approval the draft annual work plan for 
the Project; (ii) by January 1 of each year, furnish to the Association the final 
annual work plan, and carry out the activities for the year in question on the basis 
of such work plan; and
(c)
the Borrower shall, commencing six months after the Effective Date, 
furnish to the Association semiannual reports on Project implementation including 
financial information, not later than one month after the end of each semester.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November 30 in each year, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31 in each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
4. 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Implementation Manual for the Project in a 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and  (ii) shall not amend it, 
suspend it, abrogate it, repeal it or waive it so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower or UCPM to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Performance Indicators
The Borrower agrees that Project performance will be measured by the Indicators 
below, unless otherwise agreed by the Association:
1)
Increase Private Investment, exports and fiscal revenues:
(a) 
Increase in the number of private operators involved in mining.
(b) 
Increase in average annual investments in mining.
(c) 
Increase in average annual minerals exports.
      (d) 
Increase fiscal revenues from mining.
Principal output indicators:
The number of private operators actively involved in exploration, is expected to 
increase from the current 10 to about 20-30 over the next five years, resulting in an 
Page  17
increase of annual investment expenditures from about US$ 10 million today to US$ 
40-50 million. On the other hand, mineral exports could go from US$ 7 million per year 
to about US$ 100-150 million per year over the next ten years. The project will also 
help strengthen tax assessment and collection procedures for statutory royalties, 
license fees, income, dividend, and other direct and indirect taxes. The objective 
would be to increase fiscal revenues from mining to US$ 30-45 million per year by 
2010.
2)
Set-up of a competitive legal and regulatory framework for mining:
     (a)
Number of investment agreements signed at the end of the project.
Principal output indicators:
- New mining code and its regulations fully enacted 6 months after project 
effectiveness.
- At least two new mining investment agreements signed at the end of the 
project.
3)
Set-up of a modern and efficient public mining institutions:
(a) 
Average number of days to issue a mining title.
(b) 
Number of staff trained by the project.
Principal output indicators:
- Computerized mining cadastre fully operational by mid-term review.
- At least 3 Provincial delegations of the Mining Directorate fully 
operational at the end of the project.
4) 
Set the base for the creation of an Environmental and Social Management for 
Mining:
(a) 
Interministerial coordination arrangements - namely with the Ministry of 
Environmental Coordination (MICOA) and Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries - for the 
environmental management of the sector.
(b)
Number of baseline studies and environmental audits available at the end 
of the project.
(c) 
Average number of days to treat environmental applications for 
exploration and mining permits.
(d)
Application of consultative processes by the mid-term review.
Principal output indicators:
- Environmental regulations and detailed procedures for Environmental Impact 
Assessments in mining jointly issued with MICOA 6 months after effectiveness.
- Environmental baseline database fully operational at the end of the project.
- Interface of the sector's databases with the corresponding databases 
available in other ministries (MICOA, DINAGECA. etc.).
- 2 investment projects having adopted consultative procedures at the end of 
the Project.
5)
Improve Geological and Mining Information System:
(a) 
Number of linear kilometers covered by new geophysics airborne survey.
(b) 
Number of geological maps published.
(c) 
Number of geochemical analysis done.
Principal output indicators:
- Complete coverage of the areas with strong mineral potential with geophysics 
Page  18
maps.
- Complete coverage of the areas with strong mineral potential with geological 
maps at the 1:250,000 scale.
- Geoscientific database fully operational at the end of the project.
6) 
Poverty alleviation in small-scale and artisanal mining areas:
(a) 
Number of artisanal miners legally registered.
(b)
Increase in the declared production in legally-established artisanal 
mining areas.
(c) 
Decrease in the number of declared diseases among the affected 
population.
Principal output indicators:
- At least 3 social assessments produced on artisanal mining areas.
- At least 3 environmental audits produced on artisanal mining areas.
- HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns conducted in at least 3 artisanal mining areas.
