                                                                                                        94383
                                                                                                     August 29, 2009



                                                                Links:
                                                                - What is IDA?
                                                                - Our Work in Mozambique


                                                                More on Mozambique:
                                                                - Borrowing History
                                                                - Data & Statistics
                                                                - Research
                                                                - Contact Us




Mozambique is rich in minerals and has a favorable geological environment for the development
of mining activities. However, in 2001, the impact of mining on the economy was hardly
noticeable—representing less than 1 percent of GDP and less than 2 percent of exports. In
addition, the Ministry of Mineral Resources estimated that about $10 million in gold and $30-40
million in semi-precious stones were illegally exported from Mozambique each year. Annual fiscal
revenues attributed to mining represented about $1 million a year. As a result, the country
seemed to be missing out on a great opportunity to expand its economy, create jobs, and reduce
poverty.




The IDA-financed Mineral Resources Management Capacity Building Project was launched in
2001 to improve the institutional capacities in Mozambique’s mining sector. It aimed to reform the
regulatory framework, encourage the expansion of private investment in mining, and alleviate
poverty in areas where small-scale mining prevailed.




This project helped develop a successful, formal mining sector. As a result, the average
annual investment in the mining sector has increased—from US$10 million in 2001 to
US$90 million annually from 2002-2006. As a result of this investment, mineral exports are
set to skyrocket: from approximately US$6 million in average annual mineral exports from
2002-2006, to the promise of more than US$1 billion annually with the new Moatize coal
mine, under construction since March 2009.


Highlights:
- Mozambique’s capacity to process new mining licenses increased exponentially. The old
system had major delays in processing new titles. With the establishment in 2003 of a new
mining cadastre with four regional bureaus, the system operates efficiently today. As a result,
315 licenses were processed in 2001, 305 in 2002, 590 in 2003, 785 in 2004, 978 in 2005, and
866 in 2006.
- Mining code modernized. New regulations placed the country’s mining legislation on par with
international best practice. This included approval of: a new mining law, environmental
regulations, trade regulations, regulation for safety and health, and basic norms of environmental
management of small-scale mining.
- Geological infrastructure developed. Mozambique had extremely outdated geological
information and maps. It was hard to clarify or quantify mineral resources and, consequently,
difficult to attract investment. The project conducted a geophysics regional airborne survey
covering 192,441 line kilometers (about 168,189 km2) and a high-density airborne survey
covering 521,837 line kilometers (about 136,218 km2). With that, the project produced and
published geological maps.
- Information streamlined and shared. All map data was delivered to the National Directorate
of Geology, where the project established a minerals information system. The project also
refurbished the National Museum of Geology, which is helping improve general knowledge of the
sector for all interested.
- Established a robust environment management system. Before, the country lacked a robust
system to hold mineral licensees accountable to fulfill environmental requirements. The project
linked the environmental permitting process to the mineral license application process, so the two
could be tracked together. To support that innovation, an environmental and social auditing
diagnostic was conducted; an environment monitoring unit was created under the Ministry’s
National Directorate of Mines; and an Environmental Management Information System was
established.
- Improved sustainability of small-scale mining. Before, small-scale mining was ad hoc and
potentially damaging to health and the environment. The project established pilot small-scale
mining sites—in clay and gold—to demonstrate improved techniques. These included: 12 sites
as ceramic pilots in four provinces, equipped with kilns, with 50 people (including 20 women)
trained in their use; and 6 sites as gold pilots in three provinces, with 90 people trained.
- Private sector activity flourished. In 1996, there were 10 private operators. Upon project
completion, this number jumped to 22, including large actors with great potential to generate
significant revenue for the Government. The project provided direct support on the Moatize coal
concession and subsequent approval of a $2 billion mine development plan.




The Mineral Resources Management Capacity Building Project was launched in 2001. Of total
project costs of US$38.4 million, IDA financed US$21.2 million. In an effort to promote
transparency in Mozambique’s nascent mining sector, IDA is currently supporting the
Government to implement the International Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. This
multi-donor initiative sets global standards for companies to publish what they pay and for
governments to disclose what they receive from extractive industries, thus promoting greater
transparency and accountability.




The Nordic Development Fund contributed US$11.7 million, the Republic of South Africa US$1.3
million, the African Development Bank US$1.2 million, and the Government of Mozambique
US$1.1 million.




With a strong foundation for institutional capacity, investment, and production, Mozambique now
needs to ensure fairness, transparency, and responsibility so that new revenues go where they
are supposed to go—and benefits accrue to the nation as a whole. This is not a time for the
Government or IDA to consider the job complete. As part of this effort, IDA sponsored the
Resources Industries Corporate Social Responsibility discussion aimed at enhancing the
development impact of resource industries through the effective use of its revenues and
investments in corporate social responsibility.
Mineral Resources Management Capacity Building Project (2001-2007)
Project Documents
