CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 297 COB
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
DATED APRIL 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 297 COB
Project Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS
DATED APRIL 7, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated   April 7,    1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and AGENCE
TRANSCONGOLAISE DES COMMUNICATIONS (hereinafter called ATC).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
The People's Republic of the Congo (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand dollars ($6,300,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that ATC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS ATC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ATC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial, railway and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ATC in carrying out Parts 8 and 9 of the
Project, ATC shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.


﻿4
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Association and ATC shall otherwise agree, ATC shall
acquire all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit free and clear of
all encumbrances.
Section 2.04. (a) ATC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ATC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ATC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for its railway operations.
Section 2.05. (a) ATC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   ATC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. ATC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ATC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ATC
Section 3.01. ATC shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial
position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound business, financial and transportation practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. (a) ATC shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business.
(b)   ATC shall not, without the prior approval of the Association, sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its Railway Assets.
(c)   ATC shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, equipment and
property, and promptly make all necessary repairs thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering and transportation practices.
Section 3.03. ATC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.04. A'1C shall establish or maintain staff training programs adequate
to meet the needs of CFCO's operations and shall from time to time consult with
the Association on such programs and their execution.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ATC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, and, separately, the operations and financial condition of each of its
Sections.
Section 4.02. ATC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the


﻿6
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ATC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association and ATC shall otherwise agree,
ATC shall from time to time take all such steps (including, but without limitation,
adjustment of its tariffs) as shall be required to provide revenues sufficient to enable
ATC to meet out of internally generated resources all of its administrative and
operating expenses (including adequate provision for depreciation), taxes, if any,
and interest and other charges on debt as well as a reasonable portion of the cost
of its capital investments including replacement of assets; provided, however, that
ATC shall earn an annual return on the average current net value of its fixed
Railway Assets in operation of at least six per cent (6%) over its fiscal year 1973
and of at least five per cent (5%) over subsequent fiscal years, such rates of return
to be reviewed with the Association immediately after the completion of the costing
study included in Part 9 of the Project and periodically thereafter, and to be
modified from time to time as required to cover those of the before-mentioned
expenses, taxes, charges and investment costs which shall be accountable to CFCO's
services.
(b)   For the purpose of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by dividing ATC's net operating income accrued over
such year from CFCO's services, as numerator, by the average
between the current net values of the fixed Railway Assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of such year, as
denominator.
(ii)        The term     "current net value of fixed Railway Assets in
operation" shall mean the gross book value of such assets, less
the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time
to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term    "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:


﻿7
(A)   all gross operating revenues accruing from CFCO's services;
and
(B)   all  CFCO's   administrative  and   operating  expenses
(including adequate provision for depreciation) and taxes,
if any, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(c)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, ATC shall before
July 1, 1972 have increased its tariffs by an average of ten per cent (10%).
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ATC shall not
incur any debt unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such
incurrence or for a later twelve-months period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever amount is greater, shall be not less than 1.25 times the maximum debt
service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt
to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of ATC maturing by its
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term   "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all sources
adjusted to take account of ATC's tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence of
debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-months
period to which such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative expenses
and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision for depreciation, and interest
and other charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and ATC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ATC shall from time to time, at the request of tither party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of ATC and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and ATC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
ATC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. ATC shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of ATC and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ATC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ATC of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.


﻿9
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address herein.fter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ATC:
Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
B.P. 670
Pointe Noire
The People's Republic of the Congo
Cable address:
Atranscom
Pointe Noire
The People's Republic of the Congo


﻿10
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ATC may be taken or executed by its Directeur Gdneral or such other person
or persons as ATC shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ATC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ATC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ATC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President
AGENCE TRANSCONGOLAISE DES
COMMUNICATIONS
By /s/ Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative


﻿*                                    11
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
With respect to any contract for freight cars:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.


