CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 297 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 7, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 297 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Railway Project)
BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 7, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       April    7,  1972, between   THE   PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "ATC" means Agence Transcongolaise des Communications, an agency
of the Borrower established by the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 21/69 dated
October 24, 1969;
(b)   "CFCO" means ATC's Section di Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocan et Voies
Terrestres;
(c)   "Statuts" means the legislation regulating ATC, set forth in the
Borrower's Decree No. 70/38 dated February 11, 1970;
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ATC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(e)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ATC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,


﻿4
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(f    "Railway Assets" means all present and future property and assets
(including any rights, powers, privileges and franchises) of ATC required for the
efficient management and operation of the Congo-Ocdan Railway.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million three hundred thousand
dollars ($6,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1974 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to .time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September I in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
March I   and   September 1   commencing   September 1, 1982   and   ending
March 1, 2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. ATC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ATC to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, engineering and railway practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to ATC under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ATC
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
such terms and conditions to include interest at the rate of 7.25% per annum
and repayment over 30 years including 5 years of grace.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)  The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable ATC to perform all of
its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.


﻿6
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for CFCO's railway operations.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall or shall cause ATC to: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, before undertaking any major road construction
between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire, shall make a feasibility study of such road
construction, shall furnish the Association a copy of such study and shall afford
the Association sufficient opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall settle all its future debts to ATC by the
end of each fiscal year during which they were incurred, and undertakes to use
its best efforts to settle as soon as possible its presently outstanding debt to ATC.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿7
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations tinder the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by ATC of its obligations under the Project Agrement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of ATC and, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of ATC and, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by ATC of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of ATC and any relevant records and
documents and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
0


﻿8
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the Statuts shall have been modified, suspended or abrogated so as
to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Association, the operation
or financial condition of ATC or the performance by ATC of its obligations under
the Project Agreement;
(b)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the part
of ATC under the Project Agreement and such default shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and to ATC; and
(c)   ATC shall be divested of any of the Railway Assets or the operation
or management thereof.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namely, that the events specified in
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ATC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)  The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and ATC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ATC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ATC in accordance with its terms.
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ATC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ATC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date July 6, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.02
of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 7.02
of this Agreement and those of Section 7.03 -of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance and Budget of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre des Finances et du Budget
de la R6publique Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
R6publique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:
Minifinances
Brazzaville
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s/ Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Freight cars, including
spare parts                                           4,000,000
II.   Consultants' services,
part 8 of the Project                                   300,000
III.  Consultants' services,
part 9 of the Project                                  1,400,000
IV.   Unallocated                                             600,000
TOTAL         6,300,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.


﻿12
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   If the Association  shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the implementation of the following studies and
investments to improve and expand the capacity of the Borrower's Congo-Ocdan
Railway:
1.    Repairs to track structures and renewal of track materials and communication
facilities between Pointe Noire and Mont Bello;
2.    Extension of crossing loops at about 18 railway stations on the line Pointe
Noire-Brazzaville;
3.    Renewal with 36 kg/m rail of about 40 km of railway track between Dolisie
and Brazzaville;
4.    Purchase and placing into service of sufficient track maintenance equipment,
comprising gangcars, trucks, earthmoving machinery and miscellaneous
mechanical aids;
5.    Expansion of workshop buildings at Pointe Noire and provision of additional
machine tools, cranes, traversers and auxiliary equipment as required for the
proper maintenance of CFCO's rolling stock;
6.    Upgrading of about 200 freight cars to allow their utilization in longer and
heavier trains, and the training of personnel to operate such trains;
7.    Purchase and placing into service of one 3,600 hp and seven 1,800 hp
locomotives, about 65 large timber log cars and about 260 general freight
cars;
8.    Final engineering and preparation of cost estimates for realignment of the
route Holle-Dolisie and preparation of tender documents therefor; and
9.    A study of ATC's present and future costs and revenues, including: (i) the
assessment of present costs of carriage of passengers and freight, especially
timber; (ii) an estimate of future costs starting from existing traffic forecasts
and overall long-term investment plans and from other factors likely to affect
ATC's operating costs and other expenses; and (iii) the establishment of an
appropriate rate structure and competitive rate levels for carriage of
passengers and freight.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1974.


