Pfwument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CJZ 1-7:3 ar
Report No. 6931-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
December 8, 1987
Population and Human Resource
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authrization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  BIRR
US $1.00        =  BIkR 2.054
US $0.4868      =  BIRR 1.00
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
AAU        -    Addis Ababa University
ADF        -    African Development Fund
APC        -    Awraja Pedagogical Centers
AU         -    Asmara University
AUA        -    Alemaya University of Agriculture
AWRA.A     -    An administ-ative unit made up of several weredas
CDE        -    Construction Design Enterprise
CHE        -    Commission for Higher Education
DAE        -    Department of Adult Education
DVM        -    Doctor of Veterinary Medicine
EEC             European Economic Community
EMPDA      -    Educational Materials Production & Distribution Agency
ESCLE      -    Ethiopia School Leaving Certificate Examination
GDP        -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP        -    Gross National Product
GOE        -    Government of Ethiopia
HSS        -    Higher Secondary Schools
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA        -    International Development Association
JCA        -    Junior College of Agriculture
LCB        -    Local Competitive Bidding
LSS        -    T7ower Secondary Schools
MLSI       -    Medium|/,arge Scale Industry
MOA        -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOF        -    Ministry of Finance
MOE        -    Ministry of Education
NCDC       -    National Curriculum Developmaent Center
ONCCP      -    Office of the National Committee for Central Planning
OPEC       -    Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PMO        -    Project Management Office
PPF        -    Project Preparation Facility
PTC        -    Professional Training Center
RCEF       -    Rural Community Education Facilities
RRC        -    Relief and Rehabilitation Commission
SCMS       -    School Construction and Maintenance Service
SIDA       -    Swedish International Development Agency
SOE        -    Statements of Expenditure
SPPF       -    Special Project Preparation Facility
TTI        -    Teacher Training Institute
TYPP       -    Ten Years Perspective Plan
UNESCO     -    United Nations Educational, Scientific & Cultural
Organization
UNFPA      -    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF     -    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
WEREDA     -    An administrative unit; several wereda constitute an
awraja
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR: July 8 - July 7



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPnA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ........ .............................. (i)
BASIC DATA ........ ..,e.,* ..   ..*. **...****.**,**4000*
I.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS .........................a O..  1
-  Socio-Economic Setting  i......... .........................    i
-  Human Resources Development Objectives ...................    5
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ***5*********.**.**************e**    5
-  Overview  ...e.e.g.                      **                    5
-  Prevailing Conditions                                          6
-  Education and Training for Employment ....................    7
-  Educational Quality ...................,..................    8
-  Female Participation in Education    ........................   10
- Management and Administration ............................   11
-  Education Costs and Financing ............................   11
-  The Role of the Bank ..,.........................             13
-  Role of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector ....14....   14
- Summary Sector and Lending Strategy and
Project Rationale        .........................   14
III. THE PROJECT *..........................................e    15
OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION  *....ee..e.e.ee......e.   15
-  Manpower Development ...                                      15
-  Quality and Equity Improvement   .........                    16
-  Institutional Development ................................   16
-  Pre-Inves.ment Studies and Pilot Activities ...       .       16
- MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                    ...                    16
-  Agricultural Education ............ ceo.. *.cc.c  ...   16
-  Engineering Education                                      20
-  Post-graduate Programs                                     21
-  Short Cycle Post-graduate Programs .o...........o.....    21
-  Teacher Training .........,...........................    22
This document ha a sticteddistdbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomne
of theit offici dute. Its contents mAy not otherwie be dibed without World Onk autboriation.



-2-
Page No.
- QUALITY AND EQUITY IMPROVEMENT
-  General Education Quality       .............................   23
-  Higher Education Quality *...........................   25
-  Equity:  Pasic Education Facilities        ..................   26
- INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
-  Ministry of Education ....,      ...........................   26
-  Commission for Higher Education       .......................    27
-  PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES AND PILOT ACTIVITIES .......00...0.   27
- OTHER MATTERS
-  Summary of Technical Assistance Activities       ............  27
-  Environmental Impact .****... ...**....   28
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN .....................   29
-  Project Cost ...****....ee*************e**............    29
-  Financial Plan ........*      ............ ..................   31
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT
AND ADITING ............................................   32
-  Implementation e.g............. ....................    32
-  Procurement ***.**.*...........,......................   34
-  Disbursement e.ggeg..g...g.eg,..g...g..e.....g..gg    36
-  Auditing *geeegeegeegegege.e.eee....g..e..ggg...e.ee..    37
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ............. .............................   37
- Benefits                            ...   37
- Risks   .....................................   37
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS          .................... *  38
ANNEXES gegggeeegggggggggggggge..                                41



ANNEXES
Annex I - Tables and Charts
Table 1. Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2. Historical Summary of Provision of General Education
Table 3. Historical Summary of Provision of Higher Education
Table 4. List of Post Secondary Education Institutions
Table 5. Summary of Femal Participation in Education
Table 6. Distribution of Government Education Recurrent Expenditures
Table 7. Comparison of Total Government Budgets with Education Budgets
Table 8. Estimates of Forestry Professional Offtcers Requirements
Chart 1. Structure of the Formal Education System
Chart 2.  Relation of Formal Education, Non-Formal Education and Employment
Chart 3. Education Pyramid
Chart 4. Ministry of Education - Organization Chart
Chart 5. Commission for Higher-Education Organization Chart
Annex II - Criteria for School Selection
Annex III - Summary of Technical Assistance
Annex IV - Project Cost and Schedules
Table 1. Project Cost Summary
Table 2.  Summary Accounts
Table 3. Summary Account by Project Component
Table 4. Implementation Schedule
Table 5. Schedule of Disbursement
Annex V   Key Indicators for Educational Objectives Monitoring
Annex VI - Letter of Intent
Annex VII - Selected Documents and.Data Available in Project Files
MAP IBRD No. 20664



I-\



ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE)
Amount:        SDR 53.0 million (US$70.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Education, Commission for Higher Education
Terms:         Standard
Project        The proposed project will support the Government educational
Objectives     strategy which consists first, in addressing the critical
and            shortages of qualified manpower representing a strious
Ii-cription:   obstacle to the implementation of socio-economic development
programs; second, in redressing quality and equity
shortcomings of the education system, and third, in
improving the management and administration of the system.
Consistent with the PDRE strategy, the proposed project will
improve middle and higher level manpower training in
agriculture, forestry, engineering, accounting and teachet
training; improve the quality of general education through
provision of improved instructional practices and
educational materials to secondary schools; improve equity
by providing basic education facilities to particularly
needy locations; and strengthen planning and managerial
capabilities of the system.
Risks:         Based on past experience with education projects in
Ethiopia, the risks are expected to be minimal. Some risks
of delays exist for the project component in Asmara, but
such risks should be reduced by the PDRE's committment to
increase educational opportunities in the Noithern region.
Also, lack of thorough preparation by Government might
jeopardize or delay the success of the short-cycle
programs. Accordingly, the Association would review and
comment on the detailed plans for the courses, prior to
their initiation.



(it)
Estimated Project Costs:
Local         Foreign        Total
----US$ million---
Component:
A.  Manpower Development                  18.1           25.8            43.9
B.  Quality and Equity                    13.1           17.0            30.1
C.  Institutional Development              0.4            1.2             1.6
D.  Professional Services                  2.1            0.9             3.0
E.  Preinvestment Studies/                 2.3            1.0             3.3
Pilot Activities
F.  Project Administration                 0.2            0.1             0.3
Total Base Cost (A - E)                   36.2           46.0            82.2
Total contingencies                        6.7            6.3            13.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/                     42.9           52.3            95.2
Financial Plan:
Government                           25.2              -             25.2
IDA                                  17.7           52.3             70.0
TOTAL          42.9           52.3            95.2
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
IDA FY
- -US- Million- - -=-:
1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual         1.60   5.30   14.00   17.20   14.00    9.90    5.50    2.50
Cumulative    1*60   6.90   20.90   38.10   52.10   62.00   67.50   70.00
Rate of Return:  Not applicable
SAR No. 6931-ET, December 8, 1987
1/ Including taxes and duties estimated at US$9M9 million.



ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA - 1985/86
GENERAL - 1985
Area                                               1.2 million km2
Population                                        43.0 million
- Rural                                           38.3 million (89%)
- Urban                                            4.7 million (11%)
Population Growth Rate                             2.9% p.a.
Adult Literacy Rate*                               39X
Per Capita Income                                  US$110
EDUCATION (1986/87)
Gov't Schools     All Schools
Enrollment in Primary Schools               2,456,280         2,729,207
(Grades 1-6)
- as a percentage of the 7-12 age group            33.8X              37.1%
Enrollment in Lower Secondary Schools          386,320           424,527
(Grades 7-8)
- as percentage of the 13-14 age group              1706%             19.4X
Enrollment in Higher Secondary Schools         319,438           325,957
(Grades 9-12)
- as a percentage of the 15-18 age group             8.0%              8.1%
Academic Year            September - July
EDUCATION FINANCE (1985/86)
Government Expenditure on Education as a Percentage of GDP             3.62
Government Expenditure on Education as a Percentage of
Total Government Expenditure                                         9.5%
Recurrent Education Expenditure as a Percentage of
Total Government Recurrent Expenditure                              14.3%
- of which Ministry of Education                                  12.2%
- of which Higher Education                                        2.2%
Capital Education Expenditure as a Percentage of
Total Government Capital Expenditure                                 3.4%
Estrmat-e based in- part on number of certificates awarded by the National
Literacy Campaign.



--94
A d 



ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORIt
I. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      General.  Ethiopia, with a population of about 43 million in
1985, is the most populous country in Sub-Saharan Africa after Nigeria.
With an estimated GNP per capita of around $110 (1984) it is one of the
poorest and, in terms of social indicators, one of the least developed
countries in the world. Agriculture accounts for about 50% of GDP, 90% of
exports and 85% of employment. The country is endowed with fertile land
and mineral deposits. While the potential for large-scale exploitation of
minerals remains to be determined, the country's main potential at present
is in agriculture, despite the drought-pronenese of certain areas.
However, vast distances, rugged terrain, and wide variations in topography
pose major obstacles to internal transportation, Government administration,
and economic development in general. The economy remains hampered by its
weak infrastructure (notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy
dependency on one export commodity (coffee), a small industrial base, and
shortages of skilled manpower.
1.02       The backbone of agriculture is small farmers who have user's
rights to plots of 1 to 2 ha., and employing largely traditional production
techniques, cultivate about 96% of the crop area, and produce 90-94% of the
cereals, pulses and oil seeds. They produce also about 98% of the coffee
for export and raise about 70% of the cattle. The rest of the production
originates in state farms and cooperatives. Inadequacy of research,
training, extension and other support services is one of the major factors
contributing to the low productivity and slow growth of agticulture.
1.03      Manufacturing accounts for slightly over 10% of GDP and about 7%
of the labor force. Medium and large-scale industry (MLSI), almost
entirely state-owned, contributes about two-thirds of the sectoral output
but only 12% to 15% of the sector's employment. Agriculture-based
industries (food, textiles, leather, and wood products) constitute, in
terms of output, about 60% of the MLSI and 80% of the small industry.
MLSI, concentrated mainly in the provinces of Shewa (main city Addis Ababa)
and Eritrea (main city Asmara), has been particularly affected by the
departure of many qualified professionals following the revolution and
nationalization of the main industries.



- 2 -
1.04      Population and Manpower.  The first population census was carried
out in Ethiopia in May 1984. The results of this enumeration indicated
that previous estimates fell short of actual population by as much as 8
million - 42 million were counted as compared with a previously estimated
population of 34 million. This, combined with a newly estimated population
growth of 2.9% per year, has aggravated the concern regarding the country's
capacity to: feed the population; provide necessary energy without further
degradation of the environment; create the required employment
opportunities; and supply adequate social services in education, health,
housing, water supply and sanitation. These social services are essential
for raising the prevailing low living standards of the Ethiopian people and
for building the human capital on which future socio-economic development
will have to rely.
1.05      The labor force in Ethiopia is estimated at about 16.6 million,
of whom about 14 million work in agriculture. Of this latter group, the
bulk is constituted by small independent farmers and family workers. Of
the labor force in industry, roughly estimated at about one million, only
about 150,000 are employed in formal manufacturing industries of various
sizes. The remaining industrial employment is dominated by small family
businesses of a handicraft nature. During the past decade, Ethiopia made
significant progress in raising the literacy rate of the adult population
from 10 to about 60% through the expansion of basic education and the
literacy campaigns undertaken by the Government in the country's main
languages. At the same time, severe shortages of skilled manpower
prevail.
1.06      Compared to many Sub-Saharan African countries, Ethiopia has had
a well-educated bureaucracy from pre-revolution times. There were once
also a large number of expatriates in business and in the education
systeu. Some of the highly-qualified and experienced Ethiopian manpower
and most of the expatriates in business have left the coutitry after the
revolution. A fairly rapid locali ation of teaching posts substantially
reduced the number of expatriates in the education system. Although many
qualified Ethiopians remained in the country, and positions vacated by
expatriates have been filled by promotion or training of less experienced
nationals who manage the economy and the education system with reasonable
efficiency, a quality gap has not yet been filled. Also, despite a fairly
rapid growth of the higher education system, and some special training
programs, training of new professional and managerial staff to replace
those depleted and to meet the needs of the country's growing economic
activity has not been adequate.
1.07     According to a manpower survey undertaken in 1983, the estimated
number of professional, technical and managerial employees in the public
and private sector has been about 100,000. Over 95% of this is in the



- 3 -
public sector, which is responsible not only for decision-making at the
macro-economic level but also for the management and technical operation of
an increasingly large number of public enterprises, for carrying out
technical research, and for the provision of a number of socio-economic
services such as education and extension services to the population at
large. The stock of high-level manpower is being replenished annually by
about 4,000 degree or diploma graduates produced by the Ethiopian education
system and around 600 returning Ethiopians graduating from foreign
universities. This gross annual addition is only marginally larger than
the normal yearly loss (of about 2Z) through attrition, so that the net
increases are inadequate to eliminate the requirements backlog and to meet
the demands of an expanding economy. According to the 1983 manpower
survey, even with modest economie growth the additional annual demand in
future would be much larger then the annual output of university degree or
diploma holders.
1.08     Any estimate of the precise magnitudes of shortages of various
types of higher-level manpower based on such labor market data as unfilled
vacancies is not possible in Ethiopia, because high level manpower is
centrally allocated. Requests for all new recruitment/requirement of
graduates (diploma or degree holders) are submitted each year by the
Government ministries and other public entities to the Office of the
National Committee for Central Planning (ONCCP), which allocates in
response to these requests all diploma and degree students graduating in
the year from post-secondary institutions. Although data on unfilled
vacancies of budgeted positions are not available, data on the annual
staffing demands submitted to the ONCCP by public entities in recent years,
and the ONCCP response in meeting these demands from graduates of
post-secondary institutions, provide an indication of prevailing shortages
in the various fields of specialization. The requirements and
availabilities of high-level manpower are shown in the table below. It
should be noted t'ht the demand/request may be distorted downward because
the entities are already informed regarding the number of graduates that
will be available for placement for each discipline. On the other hand,
their demands may be inflated with expectations that actual allocation
would be larger if demand is higher. On balance, these data indicate
serious shortages of skilled manpower, partly because the needs of the
private sector are not reflected in them.



- 4 -
Major Shortfalls in the Annual Supply of High Level Manpower
in the Public Sector
Average 1981/82-            1985/86
1984/85
Level and Discipline       Demand Supply Short   Demand Supply Short
fall                   fall
(% of                  (Z of
demand)                demand)
Degree Level                   --
Agriculture 1/                 337    184      45     396    211      47
Engineering & Geology          402    117      71     604    162      73
Adm. & Mngt.                   241     86      64     255    135      47
Accounting                     393     90      77     437    119      73
Economics                      186     88      53     195    107      45
Statistics                      88     53      40     127      51     60
Diploma Level
Agriculture 1/                 860    656      24     856    664      22
Engineering27                  341    220      35     453    175      61
Commerce (Acct.& Secret.)    915    304        67     932    413      55
Total (Degree and Diploma)  3763   1798        52    4055   2037      50
Source: ONCCP
1/ Excludes forestry, animal health and animal husbandry.
'7/ Data relate to 1981/82-1983/84 and 1984/85.
1.09      The data of the ONCCP mentioned above, notwithstanding their
deficiencies, indicate that the education institutions, on average in the
last five years, have been able to meet only about one-half of the demand.
The most serious and persistent shortages seem to be concentrated in the
fields of engineering, accounting and other commercial studies. The
percentage short-fall in agriculture is high at the degree level and
relatively low at the diploma level, though in total numbers it is still
high. Economics, S*tnistics and Administration and Management show quite
large shortfalls. On the other hand, disciplines such as forestry, where
the shortfall is e;tremely serious due to the lack of degree level training
in the country and to the smallness of the existing diploma level program,
are not included in the ONCCP data. Furthermore, in many fields such as
agriculture, there is need for improving the quality of the training and
skills of the graduates.



- 5-
Human Resources Development Objectives
1.10       The main Government objectives in the development of human
resources include: (a) eradication of illiteracy; (b) improvement of the
quality of general education and training at all levels, regarding content
and delivery process; and (c) production of high-level manpower in quantity
and quality consistent with the identified requirements of the national
economy, both for its operation and for conducting necessary research and
disseminating results. Undoubtedly, these objectives are mutually
dependent; e.g., the quality of high level manpower will depend very
strongly on the quality of education received since the lower le"vels. This
in turn will depend to a great extent on the proficiency of teachers and
instructors at each level, themselves part of high level manpower.
1.11       The Government's estimated demands fot high level manpower in
specific fields are based on requirements originating in approved
development projects and programs in the various sectors. Thus, for
agricultu,e, the needs are substantial and diversified. The sector's
portfolio consists of 186 projects of which 63 relate to crop production,
55 to livestock, 30 to conservation and natural resources, 28 to
agricultural research and the rest to settlements and farmer training.
Regarding industry, the development of large-scale manufacturing units, the
Government initiatives to encourage the development of small scale
industry, and the expected positive effects that the agriculture programs
would have on agro-industries, require a substantial increase in the
provision of e;.gineers. In addition, most other economic sectors
(construction, transportation, energy, etc.), for which important projects
and programs are included in the Government's development plans, also
require the services of engineers. Furthermore, all sectors require
managers, accountants and economists who are in short supply. Finally, for
some specific skills, the deficiencies of the graduates are of a
qualit..tive nature, and improvement programs are needed to resolve them.
In sum, the Government's success in formulating and administering
economic development policies, in preparing and implementing major
investment programs, in operating efficiently a large number of public
enterprises and agencies, and in effectively augmenting agriculture growth
through research, training and extension will depend crucially upon the
availability of adequate numbers of competent professional, technical and
managerial staff.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
2.01      The Government is committed to continued development of
educational services at all levels, ranging from an extensive program of
adult education and skill training through to higher education and
post-graduate studies to meet manpower needs for economic development.
Enrollments in primary, lower secondary and higher secondary schools grew
by 185S, 257% and 260%, respectively In the 12 years from 1973/74 to
1985/86 (Annex I, Table 2). Great efforts have been made toward providing



- 6 -
education at these levels equitably throughout the country. Peasant and
urban dwellers associations have been mobilized to assist in the
organization, provision and operation of many aspects of education and
training. Despite many achievements, however, enrollment ratios remain
among the lowest in the Sub-Saharan Africa regior., with that for primary
education standing at some 37% of the eligible age group in 1986/87.
2.02      Post-secondary education and training, which are essential to
developing professional and technical manpower, have also expanded
markedly. In 1986/87, 5,400 were enrolled in diploma programs and some
11,300 in degree courses (Annex I, Table 3). Here also, the enrollment
ratio is low, at about 0.5% of the corresponding age group. The
appropriateness and distribution of the fields of study available is also a
matter of concern (para. 2.14).
Prevailing Conditions
2.03      Government Policies for Education.  The overall policy of the
Government for the development of the education and training system
combines expansion of opportunities for basic education with emphasis on
specialized training at higher levels in response to manpower requirements
for national development. The ultimate objective is to provide for
improvement of the quality cf life for the mass of population, a goal which
will require several generations to achieve. Toward that end, the Ten Year
Perspective Plan (TYPP) provides for steps toward: (a) eventual eradication
of illiteracy and encouragement in the use of literacy skills; (b)
introduction of a more practical orientation to general education for both
sexes; (c) democratization of access to schooling, with primary facilities
through grade 6 (and eventually grade 8) available to all, lower secondary
schools (LSS) through grade 10 in each wereda, and higher secondary schools
(HSS) in each awraja; (d) increased use of community resources in providing
and supporting educational services; (e) equitable distribution of access
to technical/vocational education, with facilities in each administrative
region; (f) enrollment at each level and in each type of education, beyond
the basic education guaranteed to all, suitable to neet manpower
requirements and to supply entrants to higher levels; (g) redirection of
higher education so It can better provide trained manpower in accordance
with assessed national needs, develop quality in teaching and research,
improve equity of educational opportunities and achieve more efficient use
of scarce resources; (h) strengthened management of the education system at
all levels through better collection and use of information, enhanced
analytical capabilities, and staff tievelopment; and (i) reduction of the
exclusive dependence of higher education on public funds for its
financing. These goals have been discussed with Bank staff on a continuing
basis and have been found acceptable. The issues relating to cost,
finance, quality and management have come into greater focus largely as a
result of Ethiopia's economic situation and are being dealt with gradually
In the context of its overall development plans. Though prospects for
achievement of the early educational targets of the TYPP were disrupted by
the recent drought, and were made more difficult to achieve because the



- 7 -
1984 population census revealed a much larger population than previously
estimated, the stated goals of the TYPP remain unchanged. Even if those
goals cannot be fully achieved within the originally envisaged time frame,
however, they remain a clear indicatioat of the valid directions which have
been established for development of the education system,
2.04      Structure of the Education System.  Formal schooling comprises a
six grade primary cycle (standard ages 7 through 12), four grades of LSS
(standard ages 13 through 16) and two grades of HSS (standard ages 17 and
18) (Annex I, Charts 1 and 2). (This 6-4-2 structure, which is now under
development, evolves from an earlier 6-2-4 system. A longer range
objective, which is dependent on the outcome of curriculum revision, is to
move to an 8-2-2 structure. The tables of Annex I reflect the old
structure). Teacher training is provided by Teacher Training Institutes
(TTI) for primary school teachers, by various specialized institutions for
LSS teachers, and by degree-granting programs in the universities and
elsewhere for HSS teachers. A small number of technical and vocational
schools, enrolling some 6,000 students, exist at secondary level as well.
2.05      At the post-secondary level, diplomas are granted after two or
three years of study, depending on the course, and degrees following four
or more years. The priorities of higher education are to provide
post-secondary training in development-relevant fields, to establish a
sound basis for scientific studies, and to train teachers for the education
system. In addition to the traditional range of arts, technical and
professional courses at Addis Ababa University (AAU), Asmara University
(AU) and Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA), there is a variety of
specialized faculties, institutes and junior colleges (Annex I, Table 4).
In addition to those enrolled in regular higher education programs,
after-hours extension programs in 1986/87 provided training for about 6,000
diploma candidates and 3,600 degree candidates. And the Ethiopian
Management Institute provided in-service management training for Government
employees. The integration of the various parts of the education system is
shown in Annex I, Chart 1-2. Finally, some 13,800 have gone abroad to
study, not less than 50% under Government sponsorship. Only about 600 of
those return annually with degrees, howev,er. Of diploma students pursuing
regular day courses in Ethiopia, about 70% follow technical courses. Of
degree students, about 60% are from technical studies.
Education and Training for Employment
2.06      Specialized training to support the ne-p of economic development
is concentrated at the post-secondary level. Though explicit estimates of
the need for persons thus trained are being made, the assessment of these
requirements are still largely on an informal basis (paras. 1.05-1.08).
Fortunately, the needs are sufficiently pronounced that such an approach,
for the moment, provides a compelling indication of need in certain
fields. Areas thus identified include agriculture, engineering,
management, accounting, health services and secondary school teaching. The
first two of these receive explicit attention below, since they are the
principal focus of the proposed project.



2.07      Agriculture Education.  At the diploma level, the junior colleges
of agriculture (JCA) at Ambo, Jimma and Awassa provide training of middle
level technicians in two-year dilloma courses. The Debre Zeit Institute of
Animal Health Assistants trains animal health workers, and the Forestry
Resources Institute at Wondo Genet, forest rangers. At the degree level,
AUA offers a BSc in agriculture and runs a small post-graduate program.
The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, established at Debre Zeit using IDA
Fifth Education Project resources, has recently begun to operate a six-year
DVM course. AU, founded in 1958 as a private institution, became a
Government university in 1965. In 1980, with Italian assistance, AU
started a research department which is gradually developing to cater for
research and training in arid zone agriculture.
2.08      Engineering and Technology Education.  There exists no reliable
census of engineering manpower in Ethiopia, but the number being produced
annually at degree level is about 300. With the addition of some tens of
graduates who return yearly from abroad, the total stock of engineers
probably does not exceed two thousand. The Faculty of Technology at AAUJ
has departments of civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering,
plus architecture and town planning, all offering five-year programs.
There is also a department of building technology which gives a three-year
diploma course. The department of agricultural engineering at AUA has a
four-year degree program. Furthermore, the Municipal Technical College at
Addis Ababa offers a three-year diploma, as does the Bahir Dar Polytechnic
Institute. Finally, the Institute of Water Technology at Arba Minch will
produce technicians from certificate through degree level.
Educational Quality
2.09      The Ethiopian education system is basically well balanced,
managed, equitable, low cost, and efficient. However, various measures
reveal the decline in operational conditions which has accompanied its
rapid expansion.   Classrooms at all levels are in many cases crowded and
often poorly furnished, equipped, lit or maintained. Makeshift facilities
built by local communities are sometimes used pending the construction of a
school under Government sponsorship. A broad look at the quality of
education was recently taken in a nationwide study carried out by a select
team of Ethiopian educators, reviewing the critical factors which have had
adverse effect. These were grouped in the study under the major areas of
curriculum and instructional methods, logistics, evaluation and
administration, the last item including management and support services.
2.10      Curriculum and Instructional Methods.  The preparation of new
curricula and instructional materials is an ongoing and well-programmed
process. It will continue for some time to come, as materials for all
subject areas and levels of primary and secondary education are written,
tested, revised and produced for general use. These materials are tried
out in 70 "experimental schools" prior to their revision and production for
general use. Workshops and seminars are held to introduce the new
materials and to obtain feedback from their potential users. Financial
assistance to these activities is being provided through ongoing IDA
education projects. The testing of materials for primary schools is now



- 9 -
nearing completion, and it will be done next for LSS curricula. The
improvement of instructional practice is also being supported through
expanded school inspection services, and by travelling teams of
instructional specialists at the secondary level. Further in-service
teacher training and development of instructional aids, together with
adaptation of curricula to local conditionss, also takes place at the
district level through the Awraja Pedagogical Centers (APC), which have
received support through past IDA education projects. Particularly
noteworthy is the attention being given to themes such as the environment,
health and family life education and the practical, hands-on aspects of
education. In sum substantial progress has been made in the curriculum
area, but the long term program requires continued effort.
2.11      Logistics.  This area of attention comprises principally teachers
and material inputs. The provision of professionally qualified teachers in
sufficient numbers is a continuing challenge, particularly for the HSS.
Completers of HSS are trained for one year at the TTIs to become primary
school teachers. Primary school teachers continue to be in short supply,
and the Ministry of Education (MOE) intends eventually to have one TTI in
each administrative region. The provision of teachers for secondary
education, and for teacher training itself, makes a heavy demand on higher
level teacher training facilities in the universities. The needs are
generally satisfied in quantitative terms, but problems of quality and
suitable professional orientation remain. To supplement pre-service
training at all levels, the upgrading of teachers is done by a variety of
in-service workshops and seminars. This is an area of continuing need
which, like many others, is severly limited by overall resource
conatraints.
2.12      The Government is striving to provide material inputs in
sufficient quantities and of adequate quality to meet the needs of the
education system. This is the responsibility of the Educational Materials
Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA), an autonomous agency of the
Ministry of Educatior. (MOE). Textbooks are written at the National
Curriculum Development Center (NCDC), edited, designed, illustrated and
produced in trial form by the EMPDA, tested in experimental schools (parao
2.10), revised by the NCDC, and finally produced for general use by the
EMPDA. The BMPDA is, in addition, responsible for the production of school
furniture and primary school science equipment, for the procurement of
equipment purchased for primary and secondary education, for the
maintenance of school equipment, and for delivery of materials to the
schools. The EMPDA is a well managed and highly pr-ductive agency.
2.13      Evaluation.  Objective information regarding academic achievement
is provided by nationwide examinations given after grades 6, 8, and 12
(Annex I, Chart 1). The last of these is the Ethiopian School Leaving
Certificate Examination (ESCLE), which serves both for certification
of successful HSS completion and as a screening instrument for entrance to
higher education. Its effectiveness for each of these roles is in need of
improvement.



- 10 -
2.14      Higher Education.  The sources of quality deficiencies in
post-secondary education are similar in nature to those of primary and
secondary education, namely facilities, equipment, instructional materials
and staff. Higher education libraries are in a particularly rundown state,
in terms both of physical facilities and collections. The qciality of
higher education is, furthermore, dependent on the quality of preparation
of the entering students. For that reason, improvement of higher education
is intimately linked with the steps taken to upgrade quality in the
secondary and the primary schools. The relevance of higher education
courses is also a matter for concern. In order to reduce production of
graduates in fields where supply exceeds demand and prospects for
employment are therefore ldw, intake to the universities of students in
psychology, sociology, political science and international relations was
cut by 30% in 1986/87. A further cut of about 25% is expected next year.
Female Participation in Education
2.15      In primary schools, 39Z of those enrolled in 1986/87 were girls,
up from 32% twelve years earlier (Annex I, Table 5). (In Addis Ababa, the
enrollment of girls at the primary level has reached a full 50%.) The
proportion of girls in LSS also grew from 32% to 39% in the same period,
and that in HSS from 26% to 39%, Female enrollments fall off sharply,
however, to about 16% and 10% respectively, in TTIs and higher education.
As to teaching, about 25% of primary school teachers are women, but the
percentage is down to some 11% in secondary education and in primary
teacher training. The eagerness of women to achieve education is, on the
other hand, demonstrated in a number of ways: 73% of literacy campaign
complerers have been women; female enrollment in university extension
programs is above 30%; female participation in primary school teaching
exceeds their percentage enrollment in TTIs by almost 10% (24.8% compared
to 15.8% in 1986/87). The educational activities of women are, therefore,
in large part a result of self-generated demand. The Government is,
meanwhile, concerned to expand educational opportunities for females.
Criteria for admission to TTIs are being modified to encourage female
candidates. Technical and vocational schooling opportunities are likewise
to be increased. The HOE is concerned to increase the number and role of
women employees at both the center and the regions, and will promote
greater female participation in teaching. The Commission for Higher
Education (CHE) likewise intends to increase women's participation in
higher education by reducing barriers to entry and enrollment, modifying
the higher education environment, by providing counseling and career
information services, and by expanding selected academic programs, inter
alia. Women in development programs across Government will be coordinated
in the future by ONCCP with UNICEF support.



- 11 -
Management and Administration
2.16      All aspects of operation of the education system at the primary
&nd secondary levels, including technical/vocational and adult education,
are the responsibility of the MOE (Annex I, Chart 4). Consistent advance
has been made over more than a decade in strengthening various aspects of
management and administration. Considerable investment, with substantial
support from past and ongoing IDA education projects, has been applied to
the development of institutions and procedures for effective management.
The MOE has been strengthened in its inspectorate, research and curriculum
development capacity, planning and statistics capability, Project
Management Office (PMO), EMPDA and School Construction and Maintenance
Service (SCMS). A Professional Training Center (PTC) has been set up to
cater for training of all professional staff in the education sector.
Decentralization is being carried out through the regional education
offices, the regionalization of teacher training, and the APCs. In spite
of these advances, administrative costs as a proportion of total budgets
fortunately have remained relatively low in the context of significant
increases in the enrollment. Local community mobilization is the
responsibilities of the peasants' associations and of the Kabeles (urban
dwellers associations) in the urban areas. Literacy programs are under the
National Literacy Campaign Coordinating Committee.
2.17      Responsibility for coordination, management and development if
post-secondary education rests with the CHE, which is governed by a Higher
Education Council, chaired by the Minister of Education (Annex I, Chart
5). The CHE is still in the process of developing the capabilities needed
to carry out its varied and complex responsibilities, though substantial
advances have been made in the past few years, including steps to upgrade
its policy making capabilities using an SPPF granted in 1986 and support
from the Sixth Education Project. Two Bank staff members also are
presently seconded to the CHE to assist in its development.
Education Costs and Financing
2.18      The cost of operating the education system is primarily the
responsibility of the Government, though community resources are
increasingly used to support primary education, skill training and literacy
programs, and to some extent secondary education. Most of these
contributions are made in kind, though cash is generated through productive
use of the lands which Government assigns to schools and through the
establishment of fee-charging evening courses at the higher levels. Fees
for university-level library services are contemplated. Modest fees are
charged for the loan of general education textbooks, and the production of
textbooks for purchase will be facilitated by the proposed project. The
share of education recurrent expenditures in the Gcvernment's recurrent
budget achieved 19% in the mid-1970s but rapidly declined to about 12% by
the end of the decade. It has now recovered to almost 15%, but still
remains low in the regional context. Expenditures in real terms, however,
have not kept pace with inflation, and consequently unit costs are now



- 12 -
among the lowest in the region, in particular for higher education (Annex
I, Table 6). This has in part been the result of keeping teachers'
salaries frozen for extended periods of time and/or providing salary
increments below inflation rates. For example, monthly salaries above Birr
285 were frozen between 1975/76 and 1981/82, while the cost of living index
more than doubled between those years. In subsequent years, there has been
some salary increase relaxation and inflation has abated. This has
arrested the purchasing power loss of wages, but has not yet allowed for
recovery to the mid-1970s levels.
2.19      While actual recurrent expenditures in education have closely
approximated the budgeted amounts shown in Tables 6 and 7 of Annex I,
actual capital expenditures have fallen far short of budgetary projections,
e.g., in the period 1983/84-1985/86 they were almost 30% below the budget.
Actual capital expenditures in education since the baginning of the current
decade have averaged about 4.5% of total actual capital expenditures.
2.20      Ethiopia's current Three-Year Development Plan (1986/87-1988/89)
allocates about Birr 200 million to investments in the education sector.
This amount represents a mere 2.3% of total development expenditures for
the period and is clearly inadequate when seea in the light of the wide gap
between supply and demand for education services. The Plan allocates Birr
150 million to general education for the construction of 1,300 primary
schools and eight junior secondary schools, with assistance to adult
education and educational support services, About Birr 74 million are
earmarked for ongoing project components, the completion of which is
expected during the Plan period. Seven of these components are being
assisted by an IDA Project. The Plan also allocates Birr 46 million to
higher education, the bulk of which is for ongoing components including
teacher's colleges and libraries. Five of the components are also being
assisted by IDA.
2.21      With regard to future education sector investment and expenditure
programs, the Government and the Bank Group intend to continue their
existing dialogue in order to ensure, among other things, that adequate
provision of funds is made to strengthen educational quality and quantity.
Concerning recurrent financing, given the relatively high student/teacher
ratio and lower-than-average unit costs as compared to most Sub-Saharan
African countries, opportunities to increase efficiency through cost
reduction within the existing budget appear to be rather limited, though
the Government will continue to encourage contribution in kind from parents
and communities.   The Government would also need to make adequate
budgetary provisions in order to meet the growing demand for educational
services resulting from the high population growth.



- 13 -
The Role of the Bank
2.22      IDA Education Projects.  The Association has provided support to
development of education through assistance to six education projects in
Ethiopia. The First Education Project (Credit 84-ET for US$ 7.2 million),
signed in 1966 and completed in 1972, assisted in the expansion of
secondary, technical and teacher education, and in the diversification of
curricula at various levels. The Second Education Project (Credit 243-ET
for US$9.5 million), signed in 1971 and completed in 1979, helped teacher
and agricultural education, with iaodest expansion of secondary education to
improve geographical distribution and quality. The Third Education Project
(Credit 417-ET for US$10.0 million), signed in 1973 and completed in 1980,
provided assistance to rural education, science facilities at AAU, and
production of textbooks and instructional materials. The Fourth Education
Project (Credit 553-ET for US$23.0 million), signed in 1975 and completed
in 1981, assisted expansion of basic and nonformal education, training of
specialized rural development personnel, and the consolidation of social
science facilities at AAU. The Fifth Education Project (Credit 1141-ET for
SDR 28.2 million, or US$35 million equivalent), signed in 1981 and
completed in 1986, provided for basic and secondary education facilities,
improved quality and relevance of education, and the trainirg of higher
level manpower in veterinary medicine. Overall, IDA's contribution to the
development of Ethiopia's education system has been quite positive and its
physical realization can be observed across the whole country and at all
levels of education.
2.23      The Sixth Education Project (Credit 1520-0-ET for SDR 67.3
million, or US$ 70.0 million equivalent) was signed in December 1984. The
Project continues earlier efforts to improve quality and equity in the
education system and to expand educational opportunities, particularly at
the primary and secondary levels and in teacher training. The Project
therefore includes: (a) a direct education component aimed at expanding the
capacity, effectiveness and geographical equity of primary and lower
secondary schools, together with the training of teachers for those schools
and diploma level commercial studies; (b) improvement of the quality of
educational services through curriculum development, staff training and
supervision, and mass media applications; and (c) the strengthening of
support services essential to efficient operation of the education system.
2.24      Lessons Learned.  Experience in implementation of past IDA
supported education projects serves to guide the design and implementation
of later projects. Principal among these lessons are: (a) the importance
of combining the supply of new facilities with support to educational
quality, particularly through related teacher training and the provision of
instructional materials; (b) the essential role of an effective system of
building and equipment maintenance; (c) the need to design projects with



- 14 -
flexibility in the details of implementation, in order to respond
effectively to contingencies as they arise; (d) the essential role of
management of the education system and the need to support its development
on a continuing basis; (e) the importance of thorough project preparation
and strong project implementation; and (f) the difficulties in
implementation and supervision of multifaceted projects requiring the
cooperation of several implementing agencies. All of these points have
been taken into consideration while designing the proposed project.
Role of Donor Agencies in the Education Sector
2.25      The Association has provided major assistance to development of
the education system in Ethiopia eince the First Education Project in
1966. Other donors, notably UNDP and the UN specialized agencies (e.g.,
UNICEF, UNFPA, UNESCO), the African Development Fund (ADF), the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), the USSR, the German Democratic
Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, and the
European Economic Community (EEC) also continue to provide substantial
assistance. The Planning and External Relations Services of the MOE, and
the CHE, coordinate donor assistance for the education sector, in
collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, ONCCP, and the newly created
office of the National Committee for Foreign Economic Relations. This
coordination builds on the interests and strengths of the various donor
agencies. IDA support to education has interfaced with the activities of
other donors particularly in primary school and APC construction,
curriculum development and the provision of technical assistance in areas
of mutual interest.
Summary Sector and Lending Strategy and Project Rationale
2.26      Relative to most African countries, especially those with a low
per capita income, Ethiopia has a well managed, balanced, relevant,
equitable, low-cost, and efficient education system. This favourable
situation is the product of Government's competency, administrative
continuity, prudent management and of IDA's support for the quantitative
and qualitative expansion of the system over the last 20 years including
advice through sector work, beginning with the first such sector review in
1972.
2.27      The formal education system, however, is reaching only a small
percentage of the population and does not meet present and foreseeable
manpower requirements for professional and sub-professional manpower, for
agriculture, engineering and management. IDA is therefore focusing its
support for the system in the following areas: its expansion primarily to
meet manpower needs; the promotion of equity (at the basic education level)
and quality objectives; and development of institutional capabilities.
Each successive project has emphasized a particular area: the Sixth
Education Project dealt with primary and secondary education; this Seventh



- 15 -
Education Project would deal mostly with higher education, while
consolidating areas covered under various earlier projects. Future
projects should continue to address the needs for sxpansion at all levels,
though it is desirable that project design should be close to that of a
sector investment project, reinforced by policy conditionality as
appropriate.
2.28      Regarding policy issues, while Bank group lending to other
countries is starting to address fundamental systemic problems, many such
problems are already being satisfactorily addressed by Ethiopia's
Government. For instance, the country has succeeded until now to avoid a
runaway expansion of its higher education enrollments despite a policy of
guaranteed entry of graduates into the civil service, because it has been
able to adjust the intake of students into higher education to reasonable
forecasts of demand. Another example is cost-recovery, concerning which
Government has explored and implemented a number of measures - including
community contributions to the construction of primary schools, fees for
textbooks, and fees for evening and extension courses - while at the same
time pursuing equity concerns. Thus, IDA needs only to support
introduction of marginal improvements to education policies and to the
institutional and financial management of the system. The proposed project
would accomplish this by financing mutually reinforcing project components
each with a policy or institutional content.
1II. THE PROJECT
OBJECTIVES AND SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
3.01      The Ethiopian economy suffers from shortages of qualified
manpower in part because of low enrollment ratios and the deterioration of
some educational institutions. In addition, access to basic education is
still not available to all children. At the same time, administrative
capacity has often been lower than a fast growing education system would
have required. Consequently, the proposed project would support the
Government's policy (para 2.03) with regard to manpower development,
quality and equity improvement, and institutional development.
Manpower Development
This group of components includes: (a) strengthening and
development of agricultural education by establishment of a Faculty of
Forestry Resources, strengthening of post-graduate programs and assistance
to overall improvement at AUA (paras. 3.03-3.10), developing of a
Department of Arid Zone Agriculture at Asmara University, (para. 3.06),
and, at diploma level, improvements to Ambo and Jimma JCAs (paras.
3.08-3.09); (b) development of engineering education by establishing two
engineering departments at AU (para. 3.11); (c) assistance to the overall
improvement of AU through provision of common teaching facilities and



- 16 -
living accommodations (para. 3.11), mainly for the additional intake in the
two new programs; (d) strengthening existing post-graduate programs and
establishing accounting and management post-graduate programs at AAU
(para. 3.12); (e) support to short cycle post-graduate programs, an
innovative experimental method of post-graduate ed,cation (para. 3.13); and
(f) development of teacher training thtouglh strengtheniing both degree and
non-degree teacher education (paras. 3.14 - 3.16), and by upgrading
unqualified teachers (para. 3.17).
Quality and Equity Improvement
Components are: (a) improvement of general education quality
through provision of improved instructional methods, educacional materials
and practical training equipment to secondary schools (paras. 3.18-3.22);
(b) improvement of higher education quality by means of augmented library
resources to post-secondary education and improved examination services;
and (c) provision of basic education facilities to particularly needy
locations (para. 3.25, and Annex II, Table 2).
Institutional Development
Assistance to improve the planning, administration and project
implementation capability of the MOE and the CHE (paras. 3.26-3.28).
Pre-Investment Studies and Pilot Activities.
Assistance to conduct studies in selected areas and to carry out
pilot activities as appropriate (para. 3.29).
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
Agricultural Education
3.02      The Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA). The AUA was founded
in 1953 as the ollege of Agriculture, under a GOE-USAID agreement. It is
located on a 440 ha site, 25 km from Harar and 40 km from Dire Dawa.
Designed for a total enrollment of about 500 in a three-year program in
general agriculture, AUA has a present enrollment of about 1,600 students
who, after the first two common years, select one of the following
specialties for the next two years: agricultural economics, agricultural
engineering, animal sciences, or plant sciences, all leading to a B.Sc.
degree. Facilities and equipment are grossly inadequate given the high
enrollment increase with no parallel expansion of the campus. The largest
laboratory can accommodate 48 but has equipment for only 24 workplaces.
Students do not receive adequate practical training and have little
opportunity to develop communication skills. It is also necessary to
establish/maintain a permanent consultative process to ensure the relevance
of agriculture education to user needs, in particular regarding research
and extension services. The high student numbers make it difficult for



- 17 -
staff to cope effectively with examinations. As a result, the overall
standard of agricultural graduates appears to have deteriorated in recent
years. CHE has undertaken a review of the overall status of AUA to study
measures to improve the curriculum, including the practical training of
students to take place both within and outside the University. However, it
is also essential to limit further expansion of the enrollment by relating
student intake to manpower demand as estimated by ONCCP as agreed by
Government duding negotiations (Chapter 7), and to improve both the
infrastructure and the teaching facilities. At the same time, the
Government has decided to develop a new Faculty of Forestry Resources,
graduating about 25 students annually through a four year course, and
expand the post-graduate program at AUA.
3.03      The Faculty of Forestry Resources at AUA is fully justified on
manpower grounds (para 1.09) (Annex 1, Table 8), and because of the
critic&l need to solve the serious deforestation problem in the country.
The objective is to produce graduates who are strong in agriculture and in
forest management, rather than in industry-oriented forestry. The project
provides classroom, laboratory, and workshop facilities, staff and offices
ancillary buildings. Laboratory, workshop, field equipmenit and technical
assistance are also provided. Although the new Faculty will have an
independent identity, the teaching program will be closely integrated with
that of the Faculty of Agriculture, with the first two years being common
to both courses. Therefore investment cost for facilities and equipment
will be low, and recurrent costs for personnel will also be contained.
3.04         During the last decade, a considerable number of Ethiopians
went overseas for post-graduate programs in areas of recognized need for
development of the nation's economy, including agriculture. Unfortunately,
many of those overseas students never returned home, leaving serious gaps
in the planned manpower placements of the Government. AUA at present
admits about 35 undergraduate students a year to M.Sc. programs in various
specializations. Given the general situation of the campus and the low
quality of the undergraduate programs (para. 3.02), the project will assist
a limited expansion of the post-graduate programs, up to a maximum intake
o- 50 students a year who will represent about 10% of the annual
undergraduate leavers and will be admitted to the following disciplines:
M.Sc. Candidates
(P.S.)
Agricultural Economics and Marketing                  10
Animal Production                                      6
Agronomy                                               6
Plant Protection                                      10
Horticulture                                           6
Agricultural Engineering                               6
Soil Science                                          6
Total        50



- 18 -
The project includes educationaL and common physical facilities, equipment
and technical assistance. It also provides a guest house for visiting
professors and student dormitory accommodation.
3.05         Overall Improvement of AUA.  Many of the present facilities
of AUA are inadequate, especially for teaching the first two common years
with such large class sizes (para.3.02). Strengthening of undergraduate
facilities is also a prerequisite for developing new programs (forestry)
and for developing a sound base to the post-graduate program. The proposed
project includes construction and equipping of lecture theatres and
laboratories, thereby releasing several existing rooms which, after
renovation, will provide space for post-graduate programs. The project
also provides staff housing and student (including female students)
dormitory accommodation.
3.06         Arid Zone Agriculture.  The University of Asmara (AU) was
founded in 1935 s a private institution, and was later chartered as a
Government university. At present, it has about 1,750 regular and 1,650
extension students enrolled in diploma or degree courses in three
faculties: Science, Social Sciences, and Language Studies. Asmara is the
second largest city of Ethiopia, capital of Eritrea, located in the arid
and semi-arid northeastern region of the country, once a major exporter of
agricultural products. Peasant agriculture prevails in Eritrea, as
elsewhere in the country. Cereals are mostly cultivated but productivity
is low because of climatic conditions. To address this situation, the
Government has decided to undertake research and training related to arid
agriculture, for which, in recent years, ASl has started a research unit
with assistance from the Italian Government. The proposed project will
assist to establish a department of arid zone agriculture at the Faculty of
Sciences. It will enroll about 160 students (about 10% female students),
40 per year in a 4 year B.Sc. course. The curriculum of the first year and
part of the second will be in common with existing courses in the Faculty
of Science, which will limit investment and operational costs for the new.
department. It is planned that the Department will initially carry out
teaching and basic research in land management, soil and water
conservation, crops, forage and range resources. Experienced teaching and
research specialists are provided to assist in developing the new
Department. The project also provides communal and academic facilities to
be shared with engineering students, specialized equipment, and staff
office Accommodation. A field station will be developed on an existing 300
ha Government farm about 34 km from Asmara.
3.07         Ambo and Jimma Junior Colleges of Ariculture.  Diploma level
agricultural education is conducted in JCA at Ambo, Jimma, and Awassa, the
last also offering specialized courses in the second year. Ambo and Jimma
JCA are administered by the CHE. They offer a general agriculture course
of two years duration to HSS leavers with ESLCE and passes in sciences,
mathematics and English. Diploma holders in general agriculture are
employed mostly by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) as polyvalent field



- 19 -
extension agents. Other users are: the Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission (RRC), the Ministry of State Farms, the Ministry of Coffee and
Tea, and the Institute of Agricultural Research. The following table shows
the estimated requirements/supply of diploma level agriculturalists:
1984/85         1993/94         1984-1994
Demand                   2,013            1,989          20,536
Supply                     821           1,055            9,416
Shortfall                1,192             934           11,120
% of Shortfall              59%             47%              54%
Source: ONCCP - 1983
3.08      Ambo JCA is located close to Ambo city in Shoa administrative
region, some- 177-m west of Addis Ababa.  In this area of high agricultural
potential, traditional cereal crops predominate, though in selected smaller
areas irrigated crops of tomatoes, peppers, onions, beets and greens are
grown. The nearby Guder Valley is the center of an expanding grape
production area. As is common throughout Ethiopia, the area also supports
a large population of cattle, sheep, goats and donkeys. The college was
established in 1931 but has suffered from frequent administration changes,
from MOA to MOE to CHE with resulting breaks in institutional development
and financial support. The age of physical facilities ranges between 7 and
55 years, and all require from slight to major repairs. Site work is also
required. In addition, some specialized facilities, e.g., laboratories and
library, are inadequate to serve existing needs. Equipment is generally
lacking or in short supply. Library stocks are minimal, and texts in
general are old. Farm machinery is in poor condition, and most need to be
replaced. The total enrollment of Ambo JCA has averaged 200 students in
recent years. The proposed project will fully rehabilitate physical
facilities, and provide new facilities, equipment vehicles and farm
machinery. An increased intake up to 150 is suggested, which would
increase the present output by 50 per year. This appears to be justified
by the manpower requirements estimates, as shown in the above table.
3.09         Jimma JCA is located in Jimma city, capital of Kaffa
administrative region, about 335 km southwest of Addis Ababa, a heavy
rainfall area of natural forest with coffee (Arabica) in its lower
undercover. Coffee is therefore the major crop, although cereals,
horticultural crops and livestock are also produced. Jimma JCA was
established in 1952 under a GOE-USAID agreement as an agricultural
technical school fo.^ grade 8 completers. In 1968, it was put tinder MOA
administration, as the Jimma Institute of Agriculture, which began a new
training program for grade 12 leavers. Since 1977, the institute has been
administered by the CHE under its present name. As a result of these
changes, the college has received no capital investment allocation during
the past 10 years. Dormitories, academic facilities, common spaces and



- 20 -
cafeteria are overcrowded. Though not as old as those of Ambo JCA,
buildings have suffered heavily from lack of maintenance. Laboratory
equipment is poor, and in some cases it is missing altogether. Farm
equipment is old and needs replacement. Library books are of very poor
quality, 90% being out of date and worn out. The project will assist to
rehabilitate existing and to develop new facilities, and supply equipment
and farm machinery. The college has a capacity of 400. No increase in
student enrollment is proposed.
3.10         A national panel set up to revise the curriculum of the JCAs
produced a new curriculum in May 1986, incorporating inputs from CHE, MOA,
,nd MOE. This curriculum should provide better training of agricultural
field officers, with a balanced proportion of theory, laboratory and field
work. The new curriculum will come into operation with the 1988 intake of
students, and the project provides technical assistance to assist staff to
further adjust the new curriculum as necessary, and to develop their new
teaching programs. In addition, the project will provide new and
rehabilitate old physical facilities, equipment and furniture.
Engineering Education
3.11        Asmara University.  The TYPP estimates that during the plan
period about 3,000 new jobs for degree-level engineers will be created. At
present, there is an acute shortage of engivieting manpower (para. 1.03),
especially in civil, mechanical, and industrial engineering, which would be
very difficult to reduce with the present training capability. Addis Ababa
University is the principal institution training degree-level engineers,
with an annual output of about 150 graduates in civil, mechanical and
electric engineering and architecture. In addition, every year about 15
specialists graduate in town planning from the Municipal Technical College.
Government has decided to increase engineer training capacity by developing
new facilities at Asmara University. This decision is justified on
regional grounds (explorations carried out so far show that northern
Ethiopia has the most important potential for mineral exploitation, and
Asmara has an easy access to the sea), as well as on economic grounds (not
less than 30% of the country's industries are located in the northeastern
part). The proposed project will assist AU co establish two departments,
mechanical engineering and industrial engineering, and to upgrade the
existing program in geology. These three tecnnical departments, together
with the proposed department of Arid Zone Agriculture, will be established
under the existing Faculty of Science, which the Government has decided to
rename the Faculty of Science and Technology. The project provides
specialist services to assit in developing the new engineering programs.
The two new engineering programs will have an intake of 30 students each
and a duration of five years, for a maximum total enrollment of 300. The
strengthened department of geology will have an intake of 20 students and a
duration of 4 years, with a maximum total enrollment of 80 students. In
addition to providing fully equipped specialized laboratories, a lecture
theater, dormitories and staff housing, the project will assist in thorough
improvement of the Faculty of Science and Technology through the provision
of common teaching facilities and living accommodations.



- 21 -
Engineering students will also share facilities, equipment and teachers
with all first year students in the various science disciplines therefore
limiting both investment and recurrent costs. In addition, the academic
facilities, as projected, will allow for establishment of two three-year
streams based on the diploma program successfully conducted at AAU, for
diploma level engineers in the mechanical and industrial fields, with an
intake of 30 each and a maximum additional enrollment of 180 students.
Therefore, the proposed facilities, equipment and staff will be utilized
efficiently by training scarce specialized manpower at little additional
cost.
Post-graduate Programs
3.12         AAU has a number of well established post-graduate programs.
However, given the serious shortage of high level scientists and managers
which exists in the country, it is recognized that those programs need
upgrading and expansion. At present, AAU produces annually approximately
40 post-graduates of whom nearly 80% are in natural sciences, 15% in
engineering, and a little over 10% in economics and planning. The project
will assist in: (a) strengthening ongoing programs through provision of
staff housing, renovation of equipment, introduction of computer
capability, and technical assistance; (b) establishing new high level
accounting and management programs for about 30 post-graduate students a
year, through provision of equipment, textbooks, and technical assistance;
and (c) developing short cycle post-graduate studies in various disciplines
(see below).
Short Cycle Post-graduate Programs
3.13      In some subject areas there is no need for a continuing annual
supply of personnel at the post-graduate level, though a smaller number of
such individuals is nevertheless urgently required. Such fields include
manpower planning, regional planning, economic policy and planning,
management, and health administration. It is preferable to meet the
immediate need for these specialists by means of training within Ethiopia
rather than by overseas fellowships. The proposed project, therefore,
supports an innovative experimental program under the CHE for ad hoc
provision of masters level courses at AAU and AUA by training two cohorts
of 12 persons each. The universities will provide most of the staff and
the bulk of physical facilities. The project provides instructional
materials, some equipment, and technical assistance both for program design
and to augment the instructional staff. Such short cycle courses will be
carried out in six fields, yet to be selected from those listed above,
inter alia. The Government will give special attention to the monitoring
and evaluation of these programs, in preparation for use of the concept in
other fields and at other levels, if successful. The Association will
review and comment on the detailed plans for the courses, prior to their
initiation and including plans for monitoring and evaluation (Chapter
VII).



- 22 -
Teacher Training
3.14      Degree Level.  Some 85% of teaching posts in the HSS call for
training at the degree level, and the annual requirement for new teachers
is about 600. These are provided primarily by graduates from subject area
programs at AAU and AU. Though all such students are required to take 18
credits of pedagogical courses, they are not initially enrolled with the
intention to go into teaching, nor are they usually vocationally so
oriented. Practical teaching experience is almost totally neglected _n
their training, and subject presentation methodology is inadequately
treated. Follow-up evaluation of those who enter teaching often indicates
poor professional performance, though the quantitative supply of such
teachers is sufficient. The proposed project will address this qualitative
manpower development problem by providing facilities and equipment at AAU
and AU to enhance their existing capabilities for professional training of
future teachers of physical science and mathematics, in connection with
overall Government initiatives to revise and reform its degree level
teacher training program. Similar capacity development in other subject
areas would be expected at a later time, after experience has been gained
from the proposed project.
3.15      The project thus provides physical facilities, furniture and
equipment for resource, demonstration and practice rooms to support
improved professional preparation in physical sciences, under a revised
program of teacher training which puts increased emphasis on commitment to
the teaching profession by those students who enter this program. The
Government, through the Universities, at the same time will take necessary
steps to make teacher training more effective by: (a) bringing all teacher
training degree candidates and facilities under the Faculty of Education in
the case of AAU; (b) specifically enrolling candidates for teacher
training; (c) emphasizing subject matter pedagogy; and (d) providing
practical teaching experience. In addition, and in cooperation with the
universities and the MOE, the CHE will carry out a comprehensive study of
degree level teacher training under the existing SPPF. The AAU will,
meanwhile, set up a working committee to integrate teacher training
practice with the needs of the MOE for secondary school teachers
(Annex VI).
3.16      Non-Degree Level.  There are presently some 17,500 uncertified
teachers serving in the primary schools, or about 35% of that teaching
force. The existing TTIs have a capacity to give formal in-service
training to 5,700 annually, which is insufficient to meet fully the demand
for new teachers, let alone to reduce the deficit which must now be filled
by unqualified persons. In-service upgrading is given on a regular basis
to large numbers of teachers through summer courses, but there is also a
need for more comprehensive training, to allow existing teachers to raise
themselves to full qualification.
3.17      The proposed project provides for development of a capacity to
give in-service training to about 1,500 teachers annually, using
correspondence, mass media and limited face-to-face instruction. A program
to this end will be developed by the Department of Adult Education (DAE).



- 23 -
Modest expansion of physical facilities will be provided at six TTIs. Mass
media capabilities will also be strengthened, and material and operational
support is provided to assist the DAE to prepare courses and put them into
operation. Such courses will have full equivalency with training in a TTI,
and full certification will be granted to teacbers who successfully
complete this in-service program (Annex VI). The additional salary cost,
which of course would not be fully effective for many years, of having all
primary school teachers fully certified would add about 7.5% to primary
school costs, 4% to total education costs or 0.6% to Government recurrent
expenditure. A workplan and proposed schedule for putting the program into
operation have been provided to and reviewed by the Association. The 1,500
to be trained yearly represent only a part of the additional trained
teachers needed, but the program would serve as a base and a model for
expansion of this kind of in-service training. The project, in addition,
provides for the upgrading of 1,500 teachers in a three-year summer course
at six TTIs, and for supplementary support to the ongoing bilateral program
to upgrade a total of 280 teachers of technical/vocational subjects at the
secondary level.
QUALITY AND EQUITY IMPROVEMENT
General Education Quality
3.18      Instructional Quality Support.  The need to improve the
operational conditions of classroom instruction (para. 2.09) is addressed
in the proposed project by attention to curriculum development for the LSS,
instructional methods improvement in the HSS, and strengthening of school
inspection services for primary schools and LSS. The ongoing MOE program
for curriculum development has been supported by past IDA education
projects and has now reached grades 7 and 8. One present need is to find
the most efficient way to implement the new curriculum in practical subject
areas. To that end, science study provisions and low-budget practical
workshops will be set up at 28 experimental schools (para. 2.10). The aim
is to find a way to provide for generalization of the new curriculum at a
cost less than that required for conventional laboratories and workshops.
Operational costs are also provided to carry out curriculum research and
evaluation, to expand the role of the APCs, and to support training in use
of the new curricula. The Government intends to assure the success and
continuation of this program by guaranteeing to supply adequate consumable
supplies to the experimental school science rooms and workshops (Annex VI),
as well as to continue the curriculum development program as appropriate
beyond the life of the proposed project.
3.19  '    Instructional methods improvement is already taking place at the
HSS through visiting teams of expert teachers from selected "focal
schools', who seek ways to use available resources better, provide advice
and give seminars and workshops with the object of disseminating their
findings to other schools. The proposed project supports this program of
"pedagogical animation" through provision of materials, training and
operational support, aimed at strengthening and preparing it for more
general application. School inspection services will also be strengthened



- 24 -
through the training of an additional 200 inspectors, to include
pedagogical animation techniques, and through more frequent field visits by
the existing inspection staff. Support to these additional operational
costs, including salaries for the new inspectors, will be phased out over
the life of the proposed project, as the Government takes them over on a
regular basis (Annex VI).
3.20       Instructional Materials Provision.  The proposed project will
expand the capacity of the education system to meet the need for
instructional materials (para 2.12) through establishment of a fund to
support the production of textbooks for sale through provision of materials
and equipment; and a warehouse for educational equipment storage at the
EMPDA. In the decade ending in 1985, almost 40 million books with 231
titles were produced and distributed for formal education. In 1986/87,
this production expanded to 6 million books annually, 2 million of them
printed by the EMPDA itself and 4 million by other Government presses.
Most of these books are provided on a nominal loan-fee basis for student
use. The MOB now seeks to initiate the sale of books through establishment
of a fund to facilitate the production and distribution of books to be sold
to the general public through appropriate channels, including the official
Government book sales agency. The fund would form a self-sustaining
financial base to purchase equipment and materials for the provision of
books for sale, the money received therefrom being recycled to the fund.
The books would be sold at a small profit, to allow gradual expansion of
the fund. Book production costs would be kept under regular review. The
Government has given evidence that satisfactory legal and organizational
provisions have been made for establishment of a special account under
EMPDA for the book production fund, and presented satisfactory information
regarding the terms and procedures for its operation. The special account
will be in operation by June 30, 1988 (Chapter 7).
3.21      The warehouse that the EMPDA presently uses as a base for
distribution of educational equipment and materials consists of a number of
rooms in an HSS, the rest of which is simultaneously operating as a
school. It is crowded, inadequate and inappropriate for its present use.
The proposed project provides for construction and equipping of a new
warehouse for school equipment at the site of the new EMPDA headquarters
now being built under the Sixth Education Project. Storage of books and
instructional materials will continue at the present site. Office space
and furnishings for some 45 warehouse staff will also be provided at the
new facilities.
3.22       Equipment and Furnishing for Secondary Schools.  Only about 12%
of secondary school completers are able to continue to higher education.
Of the others, some opt for technical training through practical courses in
the final two years of HSS (though these students may also sit for the
higher education entrance examination if they wish). About 30% of HSS
students choose the practical stream, which gives them a basis of
experience for possible productive work in their local environment. Many
of the HSS are, however, unable to offer practical courses effectively, for
lack of tools and equipment. The proposed project, therefore, provides
equipment and tools for practical courses at about 34 HSS, as well as



- 25 -
science equipment and furniture for those same schools. The lists of items
to be provided take into account the technical level appropriate to the
post-schooling environment of the graduates, so that the provision is
mainly for hand tools and simple equipment. Criteria for selection of the
HSS to receive equipment have been agreed and are included in Annex II
Table 1. The Government will provide sufficient consumable supplies for
the effective use of the laboratories and workshops.
Higher Education Quality
3.23       Libraries.  A well stocked and up-to-date library is an
essential part of any institution of higher learning, as much so as are
classrooms or laboratories. It is necessary to instructional quality and a
key link between the international intellectual community and the
individual institution. With one exception, the level of library services
in Ethiopian higher education institutions is far below the standards
generally expected for developing countries. The library of MU is in a
somewhat better situation, though its collection is rapidly becoming
outdated. Lack of adequate collections, substandard technical services,
absence of reader services, and scarcity of properly trained personnel have
all contributed to this problem in Ethiopia. Because of the great need to
improve library collections, it has been decided to begin rehabilitation of
higher education libraries by substantially increasing the number of
available books and documents, together with limited improvements to
physical facilities and staffing. The proposed project, therefore,
provides books and a very limited amount of equipment for library
development in about nine higher education institutions, together with some
supporting fellowships and specialist services. The Government expects to
defray a small part of the cost of library services by collecting nominal
fees for library use by evening extension students.
3.24      Examinations Development.  The ESCLE (para. 2.13) is at present
the only nationally standardized examination given in Ethiopia at this
level. Its administration has now reached the level of 255 examination
centers, 80 of them in Addis Ababa and 175 elsewhere in the country. The
examination is given in March of each year, and the results are published
in August, and these are used in selection of September entrants to higher
education institutions, The work is do2e by the four permanent staff of
the ESCLE office and numerous part-time employees hired for the occasion.
This process, which has been in place for a number of years without
substantial alteration, requires rehabilitation of its physical equipment,
expansion of its human resources, and reform of its conceptual bases. The
proposed project, based on Government expectations to overhaul its national
examination system thoroughly in the medium term, provides equipment and
technical assistance to make immediate improvements in the operational
effectiveness of the ESCLE. A consultancy report on examinations
development has been prepared under the Sixth Education Project, and the
Government intends to use that report as a basis for the development of
improved examinations services in the longer term.



- 26 -
!2uity: Basic Education Facilities
3.25      Even though universal primary education is an eventual goal, it
lies far in the future (para 2.03).  At the same time, the Government
recognizes the need to provide basic education services for those whose
formal schooling has been incomplete or nonexistent.  In the rnral context,
where the need is least well served, the eventual objective is to provide
"rural community education facilities" (RCEF) at the village level. These,
for the most part, are being built with community participation, though
past IDA projects and other donors have given substantial assistance
through building materials, construction equipment, technical assistance
and actual construction in remote and economically backward areas.
Presently some 500 primary schools are being built annually, which covers
enrollment increases arising from population growth plus a small increase
in the enrollment ratio. The proposed project assists the provision of
about 100 RCEFs in especially deprived areas (see criteria in Annex II,
Table 2), each consisting of a primary school plus a classroom and a
workshop for adult education. Positive steps toward full participation of
both sexes are being taken through community action and through orientation
of the curriculum to facilitate equal opportunities. Skills training for
women will be provided through the adult education facilities as well.
Provision of teacher living accommodations will facilitate the placement of
female teachers in these schools in the special circumstances of these
remote locations.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Ministry of Education
3.26      Management Improvement.  During the past two decades, the
Association has worked with the MOE in the execution of six education
projects (paras. 2.21, 2.22). During that time, the management
capabilities of the MOE (para. 2.15) have developed markedly, in large part
through support from those projects. The proposed project would continue
co assist improvements 'n those capabilities through provision of
equipment, specialist services, fellowships and local training, according
to an established plan, to four offices of the MOE. These are: the
Planning and External Relations Services, for which training and computer
system development support, inter alia, have been provided in past IDA
Projects; the Project Management Office, which has received training and
specialist services to develop its ability to execute IDA and other
donor-funded projects; the Management and Training Services, for which
establishment of the PTC was supported in the Sixth Education Project; and
the SCMS, which nss been assisted by the provision of equipment and
technical assistance. Past support to all of these agencies has proved
productive, and the proposed project seeks to enhance further their
capabilities.



- 27 -
Commission for Higher Education
3.27      Policy and Management Capabilities.  The CHE controls the three
universities--Addis Ababa, Asmara, Alemaya, and most Junior colleges.
Though the CHE has developed considerable experience in recent years, its
planning and management capabilities are constrained by lack of a permanent
core of professional staff. The proposed project provides assistance to
develop and strengthen those capabilities through three distinct but
interrelated sub-components: (a) policy development; (b) staff development;
and (c) management information system. The first will support a central
unit for analysis of higher education, design of flternative policies,
assessment of their administrative and managerial implications, and
definition of implementation measures. The second will support a staff
development plan to improve the management capacities of the CHE, the
colleges and the universities, and upgrade laboratory and technical staff.
These two sub-components include training and technical assistance in
various forms. The third sub-component will assist in developing the data
collection and processing capability of the Commission, through provision
of computers and related staff training.
3.28      Project Development Capabilities.  The Project also assists CHE
to improve its project preparation and implementation capability, through
provision of architectural and engineering skills.
PRE-INVESTHENT STUDIES AND PILOT ACTIVITIES
3.29      The project finances studies in selected fields leading to pilot
activities to be defined in accordance with the indications provided by the
studies. Such studies and activites could include: (i) preparation for the
use of modern information technology in the future development of higher
education libraries; (ii) upgrading and expansion of the capacity to use
standardized examinations as a tool for control of education system quality
and effectiveness; (iii) further development of the capabilities for
management and policy analysis at the Ministry and at the Commission for
Higher Education; (iv) establishment of a more effective system for
maintenance of the physical property of higher education institutions; (v)
development and upgrading of accounting (including training) and auditing
services in Ethiopia; (vi) testing of rural health training programs for
medical students through the Department of Community Health at AAU; and
(vii) the more effective integration of the education and training system
(and other government and non-government agencies) in preparing for the
participation of women in development.
OTHER MATTERS
Summary of Technical Assistance Activities
3.30      Specialist Services.  The project provides about 976 staff-months
(Annex III) of specialist s'.vices, as follows: (a) about 194 staff-months
for AUA, for developing a forestry program (108) and for post-graduate
studies (86); (b) about 288 staff-months to develop the engineering



- 28 -
program, and about 108 staff-months to develop the arid zone agriculture
course at AU; (c) about 24 staff-months to develop degree teacher-training,
and about 132 staff-months to assist developing AAU post-graduate programs;
(d) about 12 staff-months for an expert in agricultural curriculum
development and teacher training to be shared by Ambo and Jimma JCA; (e)
about 24 staff-months for library experts; (f) about 108 staff-months of
various experts, to be utilized ir. the short-cycle graduate programs; (g)
about 18 staff-months for the ESCLE; and (h) about 44 staff-months to
assist institutional development of MOE (24) and of CHE (20). Satisfactory
terms of reference (for individuals, groups of specialists, or whole work
units) were prepared, on the basis of outlines provided by IDA, for all
specialists and submitted to the Association for review. The duties of the
specialists include training of local counterparts. The Association also
received a staff development plan for Alemaya and Asmara Universities.
3.31      Fellowships to be provided under the project, for a total of
about 1965 student-months, include: (a) about 219 student-months for staff
development of the new Faculty of Forestry Resources, and about 900
student-months to train research specialists for the post-graduate program,
AUA; (b) about 540 student-months for AU, including staff development for
the engineering (288), the arid zone agriculture (216) programs, and degree
teacher-training (12); (c) about 12 student-months to assist develop staff
for teacher training programs, AAU; (d) about 72 student-months for staff
development for various post-graduate programs at AAU; (e) about 96
student-months of librarian training; (f) about 60 student-months for the
ESCLE; (g) about 48 student-months for institution development, MOE; and
(h) about 42 student-months for CHE, to train various staff in disciplines
related to higher education planning, and administration. Curriculum vitae
and courses of study of fellowship recipients, including proposed training
institutions, are subject to Bank Group review. The scheduling of
fellowships will be such as to allow at least one year of overlap in the
field with specialists provided under the project, as appropriate. Details
of the fellowship program for the first year of implementation were made
available to IDA. In the planning of technical assistance, preference will
be given to twinning arrangements with suitable institutions, to cover both
specialist services and fellowships (Annex VI).
Environmental Impact
3.32      No negative eiiironmental impact is expected as a result of the
ptoposed project. Graduates from the Faculty of Forestry Resources should
contribute, in the long run, to alleviate the serious deforestation problem
by, inter alia, educating farmers to develop fuel wood plantations, and
promoting social forestry concepts.



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
ProJect Cost
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$95.2 million
equivalent, including custom duties and taxes estimated at about US$9.9
milliono The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in
Annex IV, Tables 1-2-3, and are summarized as follows:
Z of
Birr (million)          US$ (million)       f-tse
Project Component            Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Cost
A. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
1. Alemaya University   13.9   17.6   31.5        6.7    8.6   15.3   19
2. Asmara University    13.8   21.0   34.8        6.7   10.2   16.9   21
3. Ambo J.C.A.             3.7    4.2    7.9      1.8    2.0    3.8    4
4. Jimma J.C.A.           2.5    2.6    5.1       1.3    1.3    2.6    3
5. Post-graduate Prog.   1.2    4.3    5.5        0.6    2.1    2.7    3
6. Teachers Training       2.1    3.3    5.4      1.0    1.6    2.6    3
Subtotal A      37.2   33h   90.2    T8.1   25.8   43.9   33'
B.  QUALITY AND EQUITY
1. General Education      9.8   12.6   22.4       4.8    6.1   10.9   13
2. Higher Education       2.2   10.8   13.0       1.0    5.3    6.3    8
3. Basic Educ. Fac.      15.1   11.4   26.5       7.3    5.6   12.9   16
Subtotal B      27.1   34.8   T1.9    1T              30.1   17
C.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. Man. Improvement MOE  0.5    1.2    1.7        0.2    0.6    0.8    1
2. Man. Improvement CHE  0.2    0.6    0.8        0.1    0.3    0.4    0
3. Project Dev. CHE       0.3    0.5    0.8       0.1    0.3    0.4    1
Subtotal C       1.0    2.3    3.3      0.4    1.2    1.6    2
D.  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES    4.3    1.8    6.1         2.1    0.9    3.0    4
E.  PRE-INVESTMENT STUDIES,
PILOT ACTIVITIES        4.7    2.0    6.7       2.3    1.0    3.3    4
F.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION   0.5    0.1    0.6        0.2    0.1    0.3    0
Base Cost (Nov. 1987)   74.8   94.0  168.8    36.2   46.0   82.2  100
G.  CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical (6X)          5.3    5.0   10.3       2.6    2.4    5.0
2. Price Increase (9X)   8.5    8.0   16.5        4.1    3.9    8.0
Subtotal G      13.8   13.0   26.8    ]62    17    13.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST            88.6  107.0  195.6    42.9   52.3   95.2
of which Taxes               (20.3)  - -   (20.3)   (9.9)  --    (9.9)



- 30 -
4.02      Cost estimates for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles
have been derived from contracts awarded for similar works and items in the
Sixth Education Project and other Government development projects. The
proposed schedules of accommodation are functional, austere and appropriate
for the proposed project objectives. The unit cost of construction varies
from about US$200 equivalent per square meter in Addis Ababa for basic
educational facilities to about US$480 equivalent per square meter for the
facilities of Asmara University. These unit costs are amongst the lowest
in comparison with similar institutions financed in other Bank Group
education projects in Eastern Africa. Furniture and equipment will be of a
type appropriate to accomplish the educational objectives at the project.
Fellowships, including cost of travel, tuition and boarding are estimated
at US$2,200 per trainee month.
4.03      Duties and Taxes.  In accordance with Government regulations,
three types of duties and taxes are levied on goods and services: excise
tax, transaction tax and municipality tax. The Government supplements the
budget of its various agencies by the amount of taxation, which is
estimated at about US$9.9 million equivalent or about 10% of total project
cost.
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has been
added to the base cost of civil works and professional services, and 5% to
the base cost of furniture, equipment and instructional material. Price
contingencies have been calculated by applying to the base cost plus
physical contingencies, the following percentage rates of price escalation
in accordance with the implementation schedule.
Calendar Year     1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Local (%)          0.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Foreign (%)        3.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
These annual rates have been reviewed by Bank Group Staff and have been
found satisfactory. The total price increase is estimated at about 9% of
the base cost plus physical contingencies.
4.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works 40%; (b) locally manufactured
furniture 60%; (c) directly imported building construction material,
furniture, equipment and vehicles 90%; (d) equipment manufactured locally
60%; (e) instructional material directly imported 90%; (f) instructional
material locally manufactured 60%; (g) technical assistance 80%; (h)
fellowships/training 60%; (i) professional services and pre-investment
studies/pilot activities 30%; and (j) operational cost and project
administration 20%. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange



- 31 -
component is estimated at US$52.3 million equivalent or about 55% of the
total project cost (or 61% net of taxes). This high foreign exchange
component is basically the result of the country's relatively low level of
economic development leading to a high proportion of imported equipment,
construction materials, as well as to the important portion of technical
assistance, and fellowships abroad.
Financial Plan
4.06      The total project cost of US$95.2 million equivalent would be
financed with a credit of SDR million 53.0 (US$,70.0 million equivalent) as
follows:
US$ Million
Category                 Government        IDA         TOTA
1.  Civil Works                      11.9           24.4          36.3
2.  Furniture                         0.7            2.6           3.3
3.  Equipment                         1.0           10.8          11.8
4.  Instructional Material            0.7            5.8           6.5
5.  Vehicles                          0.1            1.1           1.2
6.  Technical Assistance              0.9            7.0           7.9
7.  Fellowship/Training               2.7            4.2           6.9
8.  Professional Services             1.2            1.8           3.0
9.  Operational Cost                  0.8            0.9           1.7
10. Pre-Investment Studies/
Pilot Activities                1.3            2.0           3.3
11.  Project Administration            0.1            0.2           0.3
12.  Contingencies                     3.8            9.2          13.0
TOTAL                      25.2           70.0         95.2
(of which Taxes)                 9.9             -            9.9
4.07      The Credit would finance about 74% of the total cost of the
project, including taxes and about 78% of the total costs excluding taxes.
The Government would provide US$25.2 million equivalent, equal to about 26%
of the total cost of the project, including all taxes. The Credit would
cover all foreign exchange cost (US$52.3 million) and about 54% of the
local currency cost net of taxes.
4.08      Assuming that the Government recurrent budget will grow at about
2% per year in real terms, and that the share of education remains at about
15%, recurrent expenditures generated by the project (which will represent
the bulk of investment in education in the next few years) when in full
operation (1995/96), would account for about three quarters of the annual
increase of the education budget. Furthermore, as a result of the project,
most of the assisted institutions are expected to improve the financial
efficiency of their operations, with consecuent unit cost reductions.



- 32 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Imlementation
5.01      Schedule.  The project will be implemented over a period of six
years and one half, including six months for completion of payments and
withdrawals from the Credit proceeds (Annex IV, Table 4). The project is
scheduled to be completed by March 31, 1994 with a Closing Date of
September 30, 19S4. The implementation schedule is realistic and takes
into account the experience of previous IDA assisted education projects.
While disbursements under the Sixth Education Project are low, they are
expected to rapidly accelerate now that major contracts have been awarded.
Futhermore, the Sixth Education Project focused on primary and secondary
education, while the proposed project deals substantially also with higher
education. Both projects therefore are complementary and the launching of
the latter does not depend on completion of the former.
5.02      Administration.  The Project Management Office (PM0) will be
responsible for overall coordination of the project. It will provide the
linkage between the Government and the Association and will coordinate the
technical aspects of implementation of the components to be administered by
the MOE and by the CHE.  To avoid possible overextension of the PM1's
capacity and to ensure adequate implementation resources and manpower, the
Government, at negotiations, provided assurances that the PM0 would, at all
times, receive the necessary financial support and manpower resources,and
that the qualifications of appointees as project manager, coordinator,
chief engineer and accountant of the PYO would be acceptable to the
Association. Included in the project are technical assistance specialists,
to support, inter alia, its administration. Detailed allocation of
responsibilities between PM0 of the MOE and CHE have been provided to IDA.
5.03      Project Preparation Facility (PPF).  To further advance project
preparation, a PPF in the amount of US$582,000 equivalent has been approved
by the Association for architectural consultant aervices for the design of
the institutions included in the project. Work under the PPF is under
progress.
5.04      Reporting and Evaluation.  Semi-annual progress reports on
implementation will be submitted to the Bank Group by the PM0 each December
and June following Credit effectiveness. The format will be that mutually
agreed upon for the Sixth Education Project and will be modified as deemed
necessary during implementation of the project.
5.05      The Government, through the PMO, will  (a) provide to the
Association for comments by April 30 of each year during execution of the
project, a proposed work plan and estimated financial requirements of the



- 33 -
project for the following fiscal year; (b) advance funds as required to
SCMS and EMPDA; and (c) submit each year thereafter, an annual report
indicating actual work completed as compared with the plan (Chapter 7).
The annual reports of PMO will be the subject of consultations between IDA
and the Government in the course of project implementation.
5.06      The PMO will prepare and send to the Association for comments,
within six months from the Closing Date, a completion report assessing
attainment of project objectives, project implementation and initial
operation, its final cost and the benefits derived, the performance of the
Government, the Association and other agencies involved, and the
significant lessons learned. Indicators of the progress of project
implementation are given in Annex V.
5.07      Maintenance.  Maintenance of primary schools is a community
reponsibility. Some of the proceeds of selling produce from school lands
is used for this, as well as othc,r local funds. The maintenance of
secondary school facilities is the responsibility of local communities and
of the Government through SCMS, and that of educational equipment is the
responsibility of the EMPDA. Government will also study ways to improve
its maintenance system for higher education; funds are provided in the
Project to carry out this task, and to train staff in maintenance
practices.
5.08      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering/Equipment
Procurement). Consulting firms, selected in accordance with the World Bank
Group Guidelines on the basis of letters of invitation already submitted to
IDA will provide comprehensive architectural and engineering services for
most of the new facilities. The SCMS will provide architectural services,
utilizing standard designs, including those developed under previous IDA
financed education projects, for the primary schools and related
facilities. In accordance with standard Government procedures and in line
with internationally applied practices, the cost of the architectural
services and site supervision will be negotiated as a percentage of the
estimated cost of the works involved. The Director of the PMO will
coordinate and supervise the execution of those services.
5.09      Sites.  Sites for the primary schools will be selected on the
basis of agreed criteria (Annex II, Table 2). Satisfactory sites for all
other institutions included in the project have been selected or are
already earmarked and reserved in the case of institutions to be expanded.
Because in Ethiopia land is owned by the Government, a deed of ownership is
not a prerequisite for starting construction work.



- 34 -
Procurement
5.10      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
US$ Million
Category                        ICB       LCB       Other      N.A.      Total
1.  Civil Works               25.1       12.1         6.7                 43.9
(16.5)     (8.2)       (4.6)               (29.3)
2.  Furniture                   2.5       0.5         0.7                  3.7
(2.1)     (0.3)       (0.4)                (2.8)
3.  Equipment, Instruc-       21.1        0.7         0.2      -          22.0
tional Materials,        (19.5)      (0.6)       (0.2)               (20.3)
Vehicles
4.  Technical Assistance                  --          8.6                  8.6
(7.6)                (7.6)
5.  Fellowship/Training          -        -  -        7.6                  7.6
(4.5)                (4.5)
6.  Professional Services        -        -           3.6       --         3.6
(2.1)                (2.1)
7.  Operational Cost         1- --                                .9       1.9
(1.0)     (1.0)
8.  Pre-Investment Studies/   --          -           3.6       -          3.6
Pilot Activities                                 (2.2)                (2.2)
9.  Project Administration       -        -           -          0.3       0.3
(0.2)     (0.2)
TOTAL     48.7        13.3       31.0        2.2      95.2
(38.1)      (9.1)    (21.6)       (1.2)    (70.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Association.
5.11      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, vehicles and
imported contruction materials would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines
for procurement except as follows:
(a)  construction of the: Post-graduate Programs, Addis Ababa
University in component A5; Degree Level Teacher Training, Addis
Ababa and Asmara Universities and Non-Degree Level Teacher
Training all in compone-tt A6; Workshops for Experimental Schools
in component Bl (Instructional Quality Support); and Basic
Education Facilities in component B3;



- 35 -
(b) manufacture of furniture for primary schools; and
(c) furniture, equipment and construction materials contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent each.
Item (a). Because of the small size and scattered and remote lucations of
the Workshop for Experimental Scitools (estimated total cost of civil works
US$4.6 million) and Basic Education Facilities (estimated total cost of
civil works US$14.2 million) and based on past experience, it is likely
that contractors will often not be interested in bidding for them. In
cases where no responsive bids are received, these works would be
constructed by the SCMS using departmental forces (force account method)
for the construction of the facilities as already done in the ongoing Sixth
Education Project. In this case, PMO would negotiate contracts with SCMS
and submit them to the Association for comments. The estimated amount of
Civil Works implemented through departmental forces is US$6.7 million.
Item (b). The manufacture of the simple furniture required for the primary
schools will continue to be carried out by regional furniture production
units, as in the Sixth Education Project (estimated at US$0.7 million
including taxes and contingencies.) Standardized furniture designs and
establishment of the regional production units were assisted by SIDA, and
are deemed the most cost-effective way to obtain the furniture required.
Item (c). Contracts for items under (c) will be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertized locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Association (estimated at aggregated value
of US$0.7 million including taxes and contingencies). Items under this
category will be purchased off the shelves or through three price quotation
shopping, in accordance with GOE regulations, are estimated at US$0.2
million. Technical assistance, including any required for Pre-Investment
Studies/Pilot Activities, and Professional Service Specialists will be
selected in accordance with World Bank Group Consultant Guidelines (paras.
3.30, 5.08). Fellowships and training programs will be reviewed by the
Association.
5.12      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of construction and other materials, furniture, equipment and
vehicles indicating proposed grouping and estimates of costs will be
reviewed by the Association. Items will be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to award will be
required only for contracts above US$400,000 equivalent for civil works and
US$100,000 equivalent for furniture, equipment, vehicles and construction
and other materials.
5.13      Where international competitive bidding procedures are used: (a)
qualified domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preference of 15%, or the existing rate of import duties,



- 36 -
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers;
and (b) qualified domestic building contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7.5% over prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement
5.14      Disbursement will be on the basis of:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for civil works under (1) contract, and (2) force account;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for construction material, furniture, equipment,
instructional materials and vehicles;
(c)  60% of local expenditures for services of consultants and
specialists domiciled in Ethiopia, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 60% of local expenditures for services of
other consultants;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures and 60% of local expenditures
for training and fellowships, and preinvestment
studies/pilot activities;
(e)  60% of local expenditures for incremental operating costs
and project administration; and
(f)  100% of withdrawn PPF funds*
5.15      All disbursements will be fully documented except for items
costing less than US$50,000 where certified statements of expenditures
(SOEs) will be used. SOEs will be certified by the PMO Manager and
supporting documentation retained by the PMO and made available for
scrutiny during the course of project supervision missions. Based upon
experience in previous IDA Credits, the PMO has satisfactory institutional
capacity to use and manage SOEs.
5.16      The project will be completed over a period of six and a half
years. The typical disbursement profile for Ethiopia is nine years. The
previous four IDA education projects were completed in an average of about
six and one-half years. The ongoing Sixth IDA Education Project has
experienced some delays, but recently is gaining momentum and is expected
to be completed on schedule in five years, barring unforeseen
circumstances. Because of the experience developed in the past projects
and the degree of preparation of this project, a six and a half year
disbursement profile is considered adequate.
5.17      Special Account.  A foreign exchange Special Account of US$3.0
million funded by IDA will be established in the National Bank of
Ethiopia. To the extent possible, IDA share of all payments will be made
through the Special Account except for any exceptioially large item which



- 37 -
will be handled under IDA regular procedures. The Borrower shall submit
replenishment requests on a monthly basis or whenever the Special Account
is diminished by one-third, whichever comes first. The Government will
make available its contribution, as the case may be, for items to be
financed out of the Special Account at the same time as withdrawals are
made from the Special Account.
Auditing
5.18      Auditing will be required on a yearly basis for expenditures
related to the project with particular attention and including separate
opinions for: (a) expenditures reimbursed against statements of
expenditures; and (b) the administration cf the Special Account. Auditing
will be performed by the Government's Audit Service Corporation or other
independent auditors appointed in consultation with, and acceptable to the
Association. Annual audits will be provi4ed to the Association within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year of the Government.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project supports the Government's long-term plans
for education system development, and its components were chosen in
consultation with ONCCP and with the agreement of MOF.  First of all, it
aims to reduce critical skilled manpower shortages existing in fields such
as agriculture, engineering, accounting, teaching, etc. Secondly, it
contributes to continued improvements in the quality and equity of the
general education system by: (a) assisting in curriculum development and in
various didactic improvements; and (b) providing about 100 basic education
facilities which would benefit about 35,000 children of the primary school
age group, and an estimated 10,000 adults annually. Thirdly, it assists in
the institutional improvement of the education system, through improvement
of the planning, managerial, and administration capabilities of the CHE and
MOE.
6.02      While providing the above benefits, the project will, in
addition, initiate certain innovative activities aimed at improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of educational practiceo These include, inter
alia, experimental ad hoc masters degree courses (para. 3.13), teacher
training by distance education (para. 3.17), intensified encouragement of
improved instructional practice (para. 3.18, 3.19), a fund for the
self-sustaining production of school books for sale (para. 3.20), and the
first steps toward an improved examination system (para. 3.24). Government
has confirmed in a letter of intent (Annex VI) its commitment to achieving
these educational improvements.



- 38 -
Risks
6.03      No major risks are anticipated for the proposed project.  Past
experience with implementation of education projects has been generally
good. The Government has been advised that implementation of the proposed
project should rest with the existing, and well tested, Project Management
Office (PMO) under MOE, which would be suitably strengthened (para. 5.02)
anld would work collaboratively with the project implementation unit of the
CHE. No unusual implementation problems are therefore foreseen. At the
same time, Government, in requesting this project, has borne in mind the
need to keep recurrent costs to a minimum, thus promoting sustainability of
project institutions. Some matters for concern might, however, exist in
the following areas.
6.04      Asmara University.  The particular location of that university
might cause delays in the implementation of this component. However,
Government's commitment to increase educational opportunities in the
Northern region should encourage the successful implementation of the
project.
6.05      Short-cycle Programs.  Lack of thorough preparations by the
Government, in specifying institutional and financial responsibilities,
instructional materials, facilities, personnel, curricula, and operational
plans might jeopardize or delay the success of this experimental
component. Accordingly, the Association will review and comment on the
detailed plans for these courses, prior to their initiation.
6.06      The proposed project is many-faceted, in that it provides
balanced and comprehensive support to several aspects of the Government's
total program for education. As such, it is an instrument in support of
the country's overall policies for education system development. The
resultant incremental demands on management are considerable, but
Ethiopia's past performance in managing projects of this nature indicates
that implementation risks will be minimal.
VI1.  AGREEhZNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the PDRE and the As.;ociation agreed on the
following:
(a)   confirmation that the intake to AUA will be in accordance with
manpower demand estimates (para. 3.02);



39 -
(b)   submission to the Association for review and comment of detailed
plans for the short cycle graduate courses, including those plans
for their monitoring and evaluation (par&. 3.13);
(c)   establishment by June 30, 1988 of the fund for book production,
with satisfactory procedures for its operation (para. 3.20);
and
(d)   provisions for presentation and discussion of workplans and for
submission of annual reports on project execution (para. 5.05).
7.02      Subject to the above provisions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 53.0 million (US$70 million
equivalent) to the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.



- 40 -
Antwx I
COWVARATIVE ECATION INDICATORS                                                        Tabl  I 
Table I of 2
October 7. 1987
SXPENDImti     EDUCATIO                         CUMION                TCUEI
01 520ll020  UtCUI23UI      A1.RL T               E 1F1O              NTS cm   P033SION
ON? 114 A                   WSmRUT    gXPsNDITuI8ss  Lnu2Y PUIIUY 7U16Y         m3I3t    tnMAY       PATS 110    SECONDARY SE4NAR  HIGlll
BAsg  POP. cAnTA  PeMCUT Q7P TOTAL. (NUAL AL           TgD TOt DATE  D120LL. SCW3L  b TUDNS  ucnATIoN  PmRMY VD  EOLL.   STUDDTS  mOLL.
TMAS 1IL.. (US4)   008  TO  GOVERNMENT    71   SEC  a           (1)    RATIO    CICA   PQ             AS PERCENT 8ECONDA      RATIO       U        RPATIO
(1979) (1979)      oATIoN  EXPSIIITus           (O)        (1976)   (I)        (2)      TACRER  GPICAPITA        (2)        (S)    TSAC3R        (I)
(1)     (2)        (3)          (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)      (8)        (9)       (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DEVELOPgI COJNTRIES
AUSTRALIA         To     14.6b  86i0       6.3'        14.6                8        -        103'      100        21        -             99          73       is       20.90
CANADA             31    23.7b  9 650b    7.78         18.5'?     30*t 34? 138? t 9b         1061      100        21        19.9*8       100         92'       18       22.60'
GERMAN? P.R.       79    61.2  12,200      4.6          9.9*      -                  99b      898      1008       -         -            100          94'      -        12.108
NglTUERLAIDS       79    14.0  10 490      7.9          5.1        20   35   25      g9bl     96        95         18       15.3          99          82       13       12.40
sW ZuALAM         bO      3.2b  6,001b    5.S5,        13.4        37   31   28      99b     100       100        24        11.6         100         82        Is       25.80e
swam               79     8.3  12,250      9.0         18.2       31   10   10      99b       99'      100         I8       19.9         100          79X      1087    36.5041
EASTERN AFRICA
301A4A             83     1.0b    9206    6.0          22.0       41   34   22       40      100        77        32        10.0          40          20       21        1.80
B21060             81     4.2      235     2.8bw       19.0       43   28   27       25       29'       35         37       20.2          12           3'     137        3.00
C00M)"S            84     0.4b    34S      3.8"        28.0       49   29  22        49       76        40         39       -             45          36       28        0.60
DJIBOUTI           84     0.4      480     3.0         11.9        73   26   ...    1o        42        66        40       6R.O           40          1o       19       0.60
MSHIOPIA           85    43.0      11o     3.6P         9.5        53   28   17      39       37        308       63        37.0          938         14       44       0.50
113YA              82    17.4b    420b    5 gib        20.1b      65   16   11 44b           113       s5          36       14.4          35          18       26        -
1SOTRD             82     1.4b    435b    5.5          16.9        38   32   26      53b     116x       41        48         9.e          46          21       21        1.30
MADAGASCAR         77     8.5      330     4.a8        24.0        53   28   19      0o       946t      33         sb        8.o          38          14       23        3 .oby
MALANI             81     6.lb    230b    3.5          11.4        38   14   25      25b      62        23         65        5.8          12           4       21        0.40
360111t1S          83     1.0b  1,170b    4.3          14.0       46   36    7       gob      93        72         23        3.o         1oo         SO        22        1.00
WAA                83     5.9b    27ob    3.6          27.4        71   16   13      37b      65        30        40        16.0           9           5       16        0.40
SEYCHELLES         79     0.6   1,770      5.9         22.48       348  338  10      -25                                    -             -             .               -
SONALIA            81     4.5      280     1.5         10.5        50b  44b   6b    Sob       22b       gob        29b       9.0b         8ob         12b      22        1.00
SU50               8o    19.2b    Mob    3.0           -    66         39  ...    32          51"       68         34        1.4         44           16       16       ...
SWAZILAJD          83     0.7b    940b    3s4b         20.4        51   34   15      65b      93        so         33       11.0          se          29       IS        3.00
TANZANIA           so    18.5      260     5.9         17.7        47   10   16      79b     9gb        87         43       11.0          job          3       208       0.30
U(AIDA             so   17 6b    300b    -             16.1I       23b  37b  20b    u.        54s       61         34       -             l7           5       23        0.60
lAIRS              81    29.8b    210b    7.1          26.4        -    -    10      54b      76        25         30       21.0          40         18        28        2.00
ZAMBIA             sO     5.7b    566b    4.59         13.1        48   ?3   22      44b      95        so        48        12.9          19          16       22        1.so
IJUAME             at1    7.7b    7006b   5.           19.5        62   32    6      44b      90        55         39       20.0         85           15       23       o.so
WESTERN AFRICA
81231             79     3.4b    320b    6 .5         35.0        43   21    5    1lb        42        30         46       14.0          30          11       43        1.00y
BURKINA            83     6.S      210b    2.lw        21.7        43   29   28      9        16        25         57       24.3          16           3       24        0.03
04ER00N            84    10.0      8106    3. 1P       -           33   38   28    20         89        45b        50       -             -          23        28        2.70
C.A.&.             86     2.6b    260b    3.8a7        24.787      49   16   24    -          79        65        6587      18            -           18       67        1.40*?
04D                76     4.4      120     2.4b6y      21.7b       -             _s _           YS    -            77       -             -            3'      21       0.20
CONGO              78     1.5      670     9.0tmy      27.7?       -     - _-       -         -         -          56b6     -             30         -         43b7      4.00'?
SQUAT. GIS1A      85     0.3b    270b    2.8           3.8        47   24   ...   20b         13       1o        80         5.2          40          25       t178      -
GAON              77     0.6   3.420      3.7by        s.47       -_-                                  ; _       46b       -             -           -        19b       2.so0r
GAMBIA             77     0.6       20     3.3M"        6.56       46   25   64    ob         40b6      90         27b6     44,.7         40          12bxy    17        -
0*A1               76    11.3      400     4.07        15.56b                       -         71y    -             27b6     -             -           36tX7    21       -
c1uts              79     5.3      290P    4.6sP       -           258 288 2       20         34        36         38       20.08P        85          16       29        7.008
WOBY COAST         83     9.3b    720      7.3         42.8       51   40    9    35?Y        72        79        37        29.0          49         22XX      30        1.88
LIBERIA            e0     1.9      520     4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30         52        32        33        20.0          76         22        20       2.90
MALI               81     7.0b    190      4.28        21.78       38   21   11     10        20        60        44        15.7          66           1       11       0.90s.
MAUTANA            78     1.6b    320b    5.5          16.9        33   43   25    17b        32        60        44        52.0          30          9        25       0.37
3N10S              84     5.2      300     2.8         21.0        40  25   20    14          25        20         36       41.0          37           6       28        0.50
1    10811        83    "3.6b    760b    7.4y         16.0           -      13    36         93        70         36       19.5          41         23        30        2.00
SENEGAL            84     6.4      38o     5.0b        24.0       466  35b  396   28          52        S9        46        26.0          198         16'      24        2.208,
Sin"R LUON         77     3.4      250     4.0b        16.0b         -       -      13b       37'       -         35        25.0b         84          15'      22       0.067b
TOO               78     2.4      400     6.S"        26.5q       308  28'  21'   18         74        40         54bY     38.0          52          326b1    48b       1.60b7
_5T1N AMERICA AND TE       C
AIGEUTIIIA         78    27.3   2,210      2.7         10.9        43'  31'  188   93b        89        52         17       -             87          31        8       23.00
3446               79     0.2   2 77o      5.7         19.1        36   36  11    93b         99        97         24       -             97          75       19       -
B3R310             78     0.2   2.680      S. P"       22.1'       43'  31'  16'   9b        loo1       99         27Y      19.98         99'        787       207     -
bOLIVIA            8o     5.4      550     4.187       30.58      -         -     -  63       747       -         207       -             -           is3      -        12.60
BRAZIL             79   116.5   1,770      3.8          6.2        51   -    14    76         738Y      -          237       4,.5b        618        I7       14'Y    12.62b
C0611.             76    10.9  13,90       3.2b7       13.0b       -         -      -   _     19bx_                346b     -             -          55bxr    20br    11.90br
COL 03A            80    26.76  1.1 06    3.3          25.0        35   20   20    81b        78        36         32        6.6          -          47        20       10.01'?
COS   RICA         80     2.2b  1,80ob    8.4          31.1        40   27   33    90         93        77         33        s.5          77          40       27       14.00
cuu                78     9.8      -       8.0         11.0        -        -     -  96       112b61    se         18b7     -             91          716x7    15       19.02b6
D00   nc  REP.    80      5.3   1.030      2.9         13.0        39   21   22   68b         8s        31         S9        3.2          94          30       33       16.00
5C0o01             80     8.4b  1.110      6.0P        36.7        45   31   16   81          L05       -          36       12.6          86         47        16       29.00
E,SALVADOR         77     4.4      640     3.4b6       23.16b      64    8   27    62         82617    32          39       -             41          26b17    27by      7.90b6
GUTMSA             7e     6.8   1.010      1.7'r       12.6b        -_       -      -         69bxy    -           35b7     -             69          13t6b    197b    Sa,0o
0WYAN1             76     0.8      630     8.1b7       13.867                        - _    _   99buy    -         32b7     -             -           598x7    -         3.007b
O4AI1              SO     s.ob    230      3.4'         7.987      65    9    6    23b        so        20         41       19.0          62'         48       27        0.80
8080136            78     3.6      520     3.5by       14.3by      62' 150  19   60          8967    30'          416by    12.e8         688         21x'     19        6.007
JANIC             8e       2.1   1.110     6.5         1s.7        37   43   20    90         98        98        40         2.3          95         81        22       8.00
MICO               s0    65.3   1,88O      4.7         17.0'       463915    92                98       53         44        9.5          86          S6       17       10.30
NICABIOU           78     2.6b    610b    3.0bw        14.0b       -     -    -     90b       83bx      24         37b      -            -           26bx      Sob       -
r41331i 78                 1.8b  1.550b    5.sbui      21.86y      428  IS&  13    82b        95b7      -          2567     11.6          85'        50ob      217b    20.40b6
RAUA4              79     3.0  1I140       1.4A        14.2        42   17   20    84         83        32         28        3.1'         76         22        12       0.70
PFRa              8o    16.6   1'000       3.6         14.3        53  15   19    80          83        S6         39        9.8          89         39        22       14.401
"*D SD 6103.   77         1.1   3,910      4.8b6        8.8b6     48   32   20    95          99       91         30        10.5?        49          62       24       -
USWVU              78     2.9   2.500      2.5          9.4b       -        -     -  94      105bx      -          24b      -              -6bx                -        17.8087
VEIIUUIA           78    14.4   3,440      5.1Y        18.9b       -        -     -  82       106b6     -          28       -             -           3811     17      21.107



- 41 -
CUMASATIVE EDUCTION tNDICATORtS                                                          Annex I
October 7, 3987                                                                  P)g,'  ofQ  2
EXPENDITURE   EDUCATION                         COMEPLETION          RECURRENT
ON3 EDUCATION  RECIInRT       ADULT             RATS POR             MIT1 MO8T  PROGNENSION
GNP PEi              AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIBARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    itATE PROW   SECODARY SECONDARY HIIONEK
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCET CUP TOTAL DINIRA  ALLOCATED TO: RATE          ENOLL. SCOOL         STUDET  EDUCATION  PRIMARY 10  ENROLL.   STUDENT   EN1ROLL.
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNM(ENT    Pitt  SE   RI    (E)    RATIO   CYCLE          PER      AS PERCEN  SECONDAY   RATIO         PER       RATIO
(1979) (1919)   EIDUCATION  EXPENDITUR           (2)       (1976)   (E)         (2     IRACiE   ONPCAPIltA       (I)         (6)    TEACIE       MI
(3)     (2)        (3)           (4)           (5)         (6)       (7)       CE,       (9)        010)         (33)        (12)       (31)    (34)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
LIIINA       83 j~~~,025.0b    330b    3.1        7.1        38   40   22      77b                62         25         6.0          65          35       37        e,8O
INDONESIA          $I   110,36    520      2.1          9.)        70   24    6      526      9o        61         57        11.0         74          27        26        1.70
KORELA             82    39.3b  3, 636b    ?:lv        20.8        34   34   31      96        9        98         43        19.0         go          84        18       23.10
KMALYSIA           84    35.2b  I,870b    6.1          36.7        398  431  Igw    y0b        elx      97         26        11.SW~       69          72        22        4.06
PAPUA N.C.         83     3.0'    820      5.4         19.0        60   17   22      -         60       738        Ila       15.0         35          13xs      272       3.00
P3313,IPPINES      79    48.36    6906    2*3V         14.0        64   36   -       l5b       84       65         31         7.1         89          S5        36      23,00
SINGAPORE          80     2.4      420     2.7          6.7        39   40   16      63        92       62         33         8.8         96          55        22       8.00
SOLOKON ISL.       82     O.2b    G4o      6.6pw       19.0h       41   34   20      is        78       80         27        30. 5        40          20        lN       2.):3
T33ALA33           61    49.0b    6006    3.4          20.3         9   14k  t0      e6b      101       68         23         9. 3'       44          46        38a       4.fy)
VAN3UATU           86     0,1b    -        8.3         23.5        61   27    4      33       115       60         24        11.0         25          20        16        2.0')
S0OUTH ASIA
ANGLADESH          79    97,36      90     3.3 3p 0.187            31   17   20      226       631      --         53        3.6A                     14        2)        1.43
BIWUAN             80     3,2       80     3.6         31.0        ---- -            10        12       -           -                      ---
INDIA              77   659.6      210     2.97         9,917      -     -     -     36        791      -          41              -                  282                R. 3087
NEPAL              62    15.0b    150b    1.4         -            -  ----           19        70       -          36              -                  23        2 3       1.70A
PAKISTAN3          82    87.36    380b    2.0           7.0        38   20   24      22        s0       4 1        30         5.9         56          2 1       33`       3.00
ATONAIIISTA23  77    15.5   -       1.7          3.7        47   19   Is      12        3j67     69        -ib                     62           a        2267     1.007
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770      3.81        32.3        348  268  214    35         83V       45'       37         7.0?        $55         29Y       26        3.707
EGYPT              82    43.3'    650'    4.68          7.9        338  358  26'    44         751      $Oa        348        9.8'        83'         458       398     37.00
GREECE             76     9.3   4,140       ,.6W       10.66       37   26   21       -        9767     -          296        6,2?        -           7962      2767    17.80b7
IRAN               79    36.9      -       5.787       14.187      -    -- -         50       10382                3 28     -             -           4482      2481     4.903y
IRAQ               79    32.6   2.710      4.307        6.90y      .-  -    -        -        1007      -          28                     -           4$ay      29'      9.5087
IRElAND            81     3.6b  4 4S0      6.387       13.887      -     - -         98       93        94         29       -             9at8                 14       31.00
305DM              63     2.2b  1.420b    4,98         10.2        19   44   le      706      928       85         32        35.3I        -           690       38       8.90
LEBANN             79     2.)      -       -           18.66EN      --7              -         961       -         39        -            -           4619      -       27.8O'7
tWEOCCD            84    21.86    blob    6.07         12.9        38   43   19      35        57'       9         33        15.1I        -           14        38       8.9Of
oIA                a5      1.2b6  6,4966    3.2        12.7"       -      --         3667      7141     65'        298       -            90           I1a      348      ..
PORTUGAL           86    to 2b  3*970b    4.6          31.5        s0   26   33 I    S        125       70         16        16.9         66          33        36       6.00
R0931tA            78    22.3   2,1Ook     3.9by        6.21       -    -     -      98       106b2     -          236       -            9684b%                226     30.460b7
SPAIN              76    37.0   4 '20      2.17        36.81          -    - -        -         gby     -          296                    -           6767      -       24.lob;
SYRIA              78     8.6        1     4.4P        10.3        39   25   26      58        8767y    80         35b                    66          4367      216     32.60
TUNISIA            79     6.4        3     7.OP        19.0        42   39   36      626      108'      so         39b       32.8         30          38'       30       6.00
TUREET             83     47.5  t,.,O       3.3        36.2        50   22   24      736      130       77         31         6.0         55          26        13       8.00
YEME  A.R.         84     9.3b    5306    7.99         37.7        60   20   13      214       55       28         53        27.6         80           9        20       3.90
VW"E  P.0.6.       82     2.06    420b    7.6           9.7        62' 14'   68    33          63       34         is        22.0'        46          17        20       2.50
SUMMAY FOR DVELOMPI   CO3J3TIEs:
Nouber ofCutries                         84              93       70   69   67      e1        92       66         95        65           75          91       88       65
Range.                                   (1.4-          (3.7-  (23-  (8-  (5-    (8-        (32-     (12-        (17-      (3.4-        (30-        (1-       (8-     (0.03-
30.0)         54.5)  94)   46)  33)    99)        139   9)             77)       67.0)        100)        84)       46)     29.0)
Qu8rtiles. Uipper:                        5.6           21.7      51   3.6  22      81        98       60         43        20           87          47        26      33.0
Wined3n                        4.0           16.3     43   28   19      53        83        61        35        33           65          26        22       3.7
Levers                         3.0           35.0     36 23    13       25        60        35        28         9           40          14        19       3.0
Quartile Deviation:                       1.3            5.4    6.5  7.5  4.5   28.0        39.0     22.5        7.0       5.6         23.5        16.5       3.5       5.0
Kean:                                     4.4           37.0      462818S           53        76       59         36        16           62          31        23       6.9
Standard Devlation:                        3.9           8.7      12   10o    7     29        27       24         It        33           27          23         7       7.4
Sodium:                                   4.0           16.0      43   28   19      53        83       61         55        13           65          26        22       5.7
SYMBOLS:                                                               POOTHOTES
- DATM INI3EVAUALAiZ                                          A - DATUJN PRIOR ID BASE TEAR                    S * MNISTRY 0f EDUCATION (NOR) ONLY
M. ACISTUDE NIL OR IIEOIGIRLE                                 B - DATUM MUN  RECEN  TI3 MN BS  WMA             T - MUl AND STATE OMNVNIRE    ONLY
I    DATUM QUESTORAIL                                            N * CURREN  PRICES                              V * P1383l1  EXPENITURE ONLY
*  NLDESw PAiRT-TNME SmTUDT                                   8 * UET IIRLLIR  RATIO                           I - INCLNUD   Om1-AGE STUDNT
P1 - GROSS ENROLLMNT RATIO                      T - UESOD SOURCES
SOURCES:         Columns I and 2:  World Bank Atlme or education sector field eissions.
Colume, 3 to 34:  World SAnk Education  sector miasions  Government eourcee
ftdlor the Uneaco Statistical Teerbook.
Compaative Eucation Date are useful in th* fealuation of vericus educwtion sa"teaf sad malysis of relative stage" of
educational development between various countries. However, on the baste of the present data. crossenationa cempsrieon
ebould be epproached with gratt caution.  Date pnoneeted in the abve teble SAve to'. collected lArgely by Sank uteaton
from governmen sources; the remainder arm staff estimates or data from Uneaco. Efforts hame been mand to etandardima
definitions and, within limits, to check the sccutacy of the data. Ne"vethelesa, such detenwe still imperfect In
several respects and ths RSnk to working to improve them progreseively an the occasionk of its operational vork. In the
uae of these deta, the following; qualifications should he kept int mind:
(3)   'Education' as defined In the table includes all aducatio  m ad training, both formal VnW nap-fomal.
(2)    Priunary' eductmion refers to education akt the first level, and  seacoodary- education refers to all education
at the secondary level regardleas of type (e.g..* general. technical, agricultural).
(5)    .Litsrscy rstea   (Col. 6) sre often obtained from country cenagee.  In Many couttrie  they ame onl
approimatttonsaend it to doubtful that any uniform definition of 'litevtete 318 bea follovwe consistently.
(4)   'Public sxpenditure in education' (cols. 4 mud 5) ref er  to all capital and recurrent eupenditurem  devoted to
educAtion by public and qesel-publit agmncies.
(5) 'Enrollmen rattioe' (cole. 7. 12 mad 14) refer to school "ear ad are the percentage of eUgSible childr*n
efYollsd fui:l-tice in the apptwpiate schooil. public snA Privets by level. TeI u aeoften subject to a wIde
margin of error Go the developing coontries owing to variations Go tim accirecy of besit data (i.e.,
age-pecific population and enrollmente).  Enrollmen  figures frequently are higher then the oumbe of
students ectually In school. Over-aged students nay be included in thenm figures and can inlateaf the ration,



ErlOPIA
SEVETI EDUCATION PROJECT
HISTORICAL SUMHARY OF PROVISION OF GENERAL EDUCATION
1970/71     1974/75      1978/79      1980,81     1982(83    1984185        198586      1986/87
PRIMARY LEVEL
Schools                  2,297        3,166       49798        5,822        6,582       7,392        7,900         8,414
Enrollment 1/          655,427      959,822   1,377,703   2,130,716   2,511,050   2,408,065   2,448,778    2,729,207
2 Female                 31.4Z        32.02       32.11        34.92        36.82        38.7Z       39.12         38.62
Teachers                13,514       20,851      29,079       33,222       42,347      47,791       50,922        55,021
Students/Teacher            48           46      i   47           64           59           50          48            50
LOWER SECONDARY
Schools                    342          507          650         787          816          909         964         1,001
Enrollment 2/           73,121      124,584      160,877     209,401      278,057     320,191      363,132       424,527
2 Female                 26.6X        31.52        36.22       35.6Z        35.4%        38.12       39.12        39.54X
Teachers                 2,167        3,708        3,864       4,819        6,007        6,907       7,315         8,438
Students/Teacher            34           34           42          43           46          46           50            50
HIGHER SECONDARY
Schools                     95          125          157         180          200          227         245           261
Enrollment 3/           53,236       69,213     163,910      216,876      257,095     282,015      292,385       325,957
Z Female                 21.02        26.12       35.81        35.52        35.82        37.8%       38.9Z         38.7X
Teachers                 1,937        2,528        3,770       5,143        6,563        7,616       7,903         8,617
Students/Teacher            27           25           43          42           39           37          37            38
TEACIIER TRAINING
INSTITUTES
Enrollment                N.A.         N.A.        1,626       4,785        5,986        5,700        5,694        4,200
1/ Government and non-Government schools of which Government schools were 902 in 1986/87
2/ Government and non-Government schools of which Government schools were 912 In 1986/87
3/ Government and non-Government schools of which Government schools were 982 in 1986/87
Sotirce: Ministry of Education                                                                                                 !II



ETHIOPiA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
HISTORICAL SUWMARY OF PROVISION OF HIGHER EDUCATION 1/
REGULAR PROGRAMS
Diploma Level                       Degree Level      -                Post-Graduate
Students    X Female    Graduates   Students    X Female    Graduates   Students    2 Female    Graduates
1981/82        N.A.         N.A.        2,158         N.A.         N.A.        1,758        N.A          N.A.          68
1982/83      5,441         16.8X        2,126       10,494        10.32        1,468        231          6.5X          59
1983/84       5,473         15.3        2,477       10,303         8.8         1,633        223          4.0           67
1984/85      5,821         16.4         2,246       10,994         9.0         1,540        274          5.5           61
1985/86      5,866         15.0         2,371       11,780         8.4         1,899        279          7.5           50
i986187      5,422         11.7          N.A.       11,277         8.0         N.A.         327          7.0           N.A.
EXTENSION PROGRAMS
l981182       N-A.          N.A.        1,454         NSA.         N.A.          131         -            -             -
1982/83       N.A.          N.A.        1,494         N.A.         N.A.          152         -            -             -
1983/84      9,150         39.1X        2,178        1,867        20.7Z          116         -            -             -
1984/85      7,317         33.9         1,300        3,414        23.0           226         -            -             -
1985/86      6,053         37.3         1,352        3,427        22.8           140         -            -
t486/87      5,981         37.6          NSA.        3,610        21.8           N.A*        -            -
1/ InstitutLorn dependent on Commission for Higher Education only.
N.A. denotes not available in the data provided.
Source: Commission for hligher Education
Ir 
x: 



- 44 -
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH  =W=  PROJECT
LIST OF POST SECOADARY EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS            Annex I
UNIVERSITIES
Addis Ababa University
Asmara University
Alemaya University of Agriculture
COLLEGES AND INSTITUTES
Agriculture
- Ambo Junior College of Agriculture (CHE)
- Jimma Junior College of Agriculture (CHE)
- Awassa Junior College of Agriculture (AAU)
- Debreteit Faculty of Veterinary Medicine (AAU)
- Debrezeit Institute of Animal Health Assistants (CHE)
- Wondo Genet Forestry Institute (Ministry of Agriculture)
Technology
- Bahir Dar Polytechnic Institute (CUE)
- Addis Ababa Municipal College (Addis Ababa City Council)
- Arbaminch Institute of Water Technology (Wiater Resources Commission)
Teacher Trainin
- Bahir Dar Teachers College (AAU)
- Kotebe College of Teacher Education (CHE)
- Nazreth Productive Technology Teacher Training College (CHE)
Health
- Gondar College of Medical Sciences (AAU)
- Jimma Institute of Medical Science (Ministry of Health)
Commerce
- Junior College of Commerce (CHE)
Notes:-
(CHE) denotes institutions directly under the Commission for Higher Education
(AMU) denotes institutions directly under Addis Ababa University
All post-secondary education institutions are either directly or indirectly under
the CHE.
Source: Commission for Higher Education.



mIOPIA
SEVENTH WDUCATIOU PROJECT
SUWMARY OF FEMA.E PARTICIPATION IN EDUCATION
(Percent)
1970/71    1974/75    1978/79    1980/81    1982/83    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87
Enrollments
Primary Schools               31.41      32.01       32.1       34.91      36.81       38.71       39.11      38.61
Lower Secondary               26.6       31.5        36.2        35.6        35.4       38.1        39.1        39.4
Higher Secondary              21.0       26.1        35.8        35.5        35.8       37.8        38.9        38.7
Teacher Training Institutes NA.A          N.A.                   N.A kA.    WA.         N.A.        N.A.        15.8
Higiher-Diploma               N.A.       N.A.      I N.A.        N.A.        16.8       16.4        15.0        11.7
Higher-Degree                 N.A.       N.A.        NA.         N.A.        10.3        9.0         8.4         8.0
lliglier-Post-graduate        N.A.       N.AN N.A*N.A.                        6.5        5.5         7.5         7.0
Higher Extension-Diploma    N.A.         N.A.        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.        33.9        37.3        37.6
Hliglier Extension-Degree    N.A.        N.A.        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.        23.0        22.8        21.8
Teachers
Primary Schools               12.41      14.6%       18.31       21.91      23.61       24.71       25.61       24.81
Lower Secondary               12.0        9.4        10.9         9.4        10.3       11.4        10.2        11.0
Higher Secondary              17.2        13.7        9.1        10.7        11.3       11.5        12.0'       10.8
Teacher Training Institutes N.A.         N.A.        N.A.        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.        N.A.        11.5
Sources:  Ministry of Education and Commission for HIgher Education.
U114



ETHIOPIA
SEVE#( EDUCATION PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
(Total costs In thousands of Birr, per student costs In Birr)
1970/71   1974/75   1978/79   1980/81   1982/83    1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
Primary Schools V                        33,389    46,969    77,819    92,126   132,187    163,977   179,076   197,538
Budget per Stud,ent                        71         63         73        51         60          77        82         81
Lower Secondary  1/                        1,913    22,636    29,939    29,653    34,177        38,526    42,028    46,780
Budget per Stu3ent                         30 2/    213         218        159       138         133        128       121
lligbler Secondary 11                     12,885    23,127    31,846    27,687    40,877        46,748    48,364    50,963
Budget per Student                        266      s 379        199        131       162         169        169       160
Primary Teacher Training                  2,529      5,098      4,063     5,675      6,463       6,436     6,349      6,497
Budget per Student                        N.A.       N.A.    2,499      1,186      1,080       1,129     1,115      1,547
Technical/Vocational Schools 3/            3,442     4,037      4,012      2,817     3,354       3,714      4,010     4,358
Adult Educatlon                              706     1,328      4,561     8,327      8,465       8,276     8,286      8,388
Administration                             3,515     6,134      7,130     6,443      6,605       6,693     6,975      8,277
Other                                      2,813     1,300      4,147      5,676     7,414       7,170    .5,696      5,659
General Education Recurrent              619193   110,629   163,516   178,405   239,542    281,540   300,785   328,459
Percent Personnel Emoluments              N.A.       892        872       842        872         892       90Z        912
General Education Capital                  5,631    19,299    51,562    48,954    75,852        46,753    50,500    53,135
Percent Loan 6 Aid                        N.A.       552       82X        58S        73X         75Z       76X        722
Higher Education                         13,814    21,789    32,112    42,099    50,687         50,860    53,102    55,351
Budget per Student 5!                     N.A.       N.A*      N.A.       N.A.    3,135        2,976     2,963      3,251
l)  Government schools only.
2)  Unreliable data from year when LSS were first becoming established.
3)  Typical per student cost Is about B 900.
4)  'Ot1ter' includes special education, training subsidies, overseas scholarships, special projects, inter alas.
5)  Based on total highier education recurrent budget and regular enrollments at all levels, but not extension courses,
and tclerefore somewhat overstated.
Sources:  Ministry of Educattoni and Commission for Higher Education.
*1q



EXHOPIA
SEVENTH EWGCATON P    r
a( ARISON OF TUrAL     a         sERMT   MxErS WTI ELUATION BUDGE    1/
(Prices in thousands of Birr)
1970/71    1974/75      1978/79    1980/81   1982/83    1984/85        1985/86        1986/87
Gross Domestic Product           4,710,400   5,524,500        N.A.    8,742,000  9,637,800   10,880,100  11,630,800       N.A.
Gkrmrnnent Total Budget            648,133      918,800    2,118,822 2,678,500  3,325,173 2/ 3,983,015  4,.)8,400   5,256,5612/
GkvrnImEnt Recurrent Budget        516,232      672,913     1,513,235  1,741,154  2,043,50B    2,419,263  2,466,882    2,598,640
Goverruent Capital Budget          131,901      245,887       605,587   937,346   1,281,655   1,563,752   1,931,518    2,657,922
Educration Total Budget             81,276      158,285       247,490   277,4742/  376,344       391,761    419,5782/   451,045
General Education Pecurrent         61,193      110,629       163,516    178,405-   239,542      281,540    300,785      328,459
Gezr$al Eduwattio Capital            5,631       19,299        51,562    48,954      75,852       46,753      50,500      53,135
Higber Mixuc:ion Reurrent           13,814       21,789       32,112    42,099       50,687       50,860      53,102      55,351
HigWhr Education Capital               638        6,568          3C0/   8,017        10,263       12,6C8      15,192       14,100
Educaltion as % of Govt. Uipt       12.5%        17.2%         11.7%     10.4%       11.3%         9.8%        9.5%        8.t% -A
Gen. Ed.L Riemrent, % Govt. Rec.   11.9          16.4          10.8      10.3        11.7         11.6        12.2        1246
"  "   Capital,%            Cap.    4.3         7.9          8.5        5.2         5.9          3.0         2.6         2.0
tgh Ed.Le Rwrent, Z    "  Rec.    2.7             3.2           2.1       2.4         2.5          2.1         2.2         2.1
" Capital, %      "  Cap.    0.5            2.7          0.1        0.9         0.8          0.8         0.8         0.5
Edn^tion as % of GDP                 1.72         2.9Z         N.A.       3.2%        3.9%         3.6%        3.6%        N.A.
1) Goverment budmts. Actual G'vermnmeeir mourdies differ fron tuese. Ibtal education eerditres also inc1ixp substaMtial
cammity contribtios, quatificatimn of wtLdh is unvailiables. These are not incldilx  in the above.
2) Official figures db rct add correctly in these cases.
3) Eitber an amxious year or an error In publisled statistics. 1977/78 eqenditure w a B11.515 million, 1979/80 e     diture was
B10.588 mulltion
Source: Miristry of Education.



- 48 -
Annex I
Table 8
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimates of Forestry Professional Officers Requirements
1987                   1993                   1998
Management         Target      Staff       Target    Staff        Target      Staff
Category           area    Requirement    area   Requirement    area    Requirement
(ha)                    (ha)                   (ha)
Plant at ions
0-5 years           50,000        36       195,000    139           250,000    179
Plantations
over 5 years       250,000       42        300,000      50         495,000      83
Managed Natural
Forest             150,000        5        540,000      18         750,000      25
Industrial Wood:
Timber
Firewood                           3                     5                      10
Charcoal
Extension and
Community Forest                 25                    125                     146
Ancillary
Activities                        17                    51                      66
TOTAL                            128                   388                     509
Source: Calculations derived from TYPP and Ethiopia Forestry Project, SAR



ETHIOPIA
Structure of the Formal Education System                                   Ufiversities
Technology |^-       
Programs
Key:
o  State Examinations                                                                    Ag tal P         S
* Certificate
Diploma                                                                                 Jior Col     of Commerce
X  Degree                                            Comprehensive Schools
(Being Phased Out)
|                     Technical     I
1I    12  ~31~ 1 Teacther Tra-ing Programs
1 = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A(cadetmicsX
Primary Schools                 Lower Secondary Levelrts
Primary Teacher Trann insietutions
Hgtw Seondary{
Post-Secondary Level
7     8      9      10    11    12    13    14    15    16            17    18                      20      21     22        Starxard
I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I                   rAges
Notes   t To be phased out.                                                            Tx
2. To be Introduced.                                                           19
caic/w31260-3



ETHIOPIA
Relation of Formal Education,
Non-Formal Education and Employment
Univer4ities
A~~~~~~~
Formal Education                       *Secondary=
=  >1  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o aticonal_ 
Secondary
Programs
Post                                      t                                        _ I Extension
Usteracy     |                  .         I        I             I                 Classes
C~~~ontinrdng Education                    Specialized
Basic           I                   & Night Classes                   Courses &
Literacy                                                                Vocational
Trab*V
Pre-
School
Day  _ __                                        NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                                    Key:
Care                                              DELIVERY SYSTEMS:                                           O
Literacy Centers.                                          Output to Employment
Community Readng Rooms.
Evening Class Centers.                                 0  Stab Examhations
Correspondence Education.
Radio Education                                        *  Cert1cate
Diploma
Degree
c0alw31260-4  



ETHIOPIA
Education Enrollment Pyramid - 1985
TOTAL     POPULATION
ENROLLMENT  STANDARD AGE
STANDARD                           MALES                 FEMALES                               IN GRADE
GRADE  AGE                                                                                                      MALE FEMALE
12   18                                          27    15                                            41       386    367
1 1   17                                        36      22                                           58       413    383
10   16                                        46        27                                          72       45    409
9    15                                       75                                                    120       480    I41
8    14                                     92             63                                       155       515    473
7    13                                  129                79                                      208       650    505
6  t2           X                      1601E W2 108                                  l              268   584  540 @
5  t  t                               173                              ///                                   108 282  618    578
4    tO     |                        t91                      12S    0      . ---0         l        311       649    618
3    9                                                         134                                  346       679    656
2    a                           2                              158                                 407       707    691
7 |507 //m//z/////,////////m/m////  328                                                     |836       732    723
(THOUSANDS)
800   700   600   600   400   300   200   100    0    100   200   300   400   500   600   700   800
(THOUSANDS)
Notes.
- Government & non-government primary & general secondary enrollments are used.
- Enrollments may fail to tally because of rounding.



ETHIOPIA
Ministry of Education - Organization Chart
O ffice of    L   __    Commission for
the Minister             i Higher Education
Ethiopian National  i                         lnttmal Audit
Agency for UNESCO                                 Ser
CI  SVice-Minister 
Legal                                 Education Materials
Segarvi                                  Production &
Service                               Distribution Agency
Planning &
f                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~External Relations
Department    _                                                     Services
of Inspection                              Department of
_    Administrative
Department of                                 SeTvices
Educational
Mass Media     |
School Construction                                  1.0
& Maintenance
Public Relations                               Services
Services            _                     _   ~~~~~~~~~Management &
7             Z   ~~~~~TrairngnS Services
Project Management                             Department of
Office                                    Curriculum
Department of         Department of              Department of
Formal Education       Adult Education           Teacher Education
National            [    Teachers &
Examinations                Vocational   *
Board *     J      [_Education Council
Regional Education Offices
Awraja Education Offices
* Note Special Offices coopeating                         Scs                                               c     120         >|
with other agencies                     1                                                            a



ETHIOPIA
Commission for Higher Education
Organization Chart
Council for|
Higher Education
Agricultural Sciences                                       1
,~~~~~~~fc ~Commissioner
Pedagogical Sciences               Office of the Commissioner
Science & Technology
.                         l~~~~~~~~Deputy
Social Sciences                        Commissioner
Natural Sciences
_PublicRelvton
Health Sciences                                           Services
Chief Coordmator for       Chief Coordinator for       Chie Coordinator for                          Chief Coordinator
Planning & Management        Educational Material        External Relations &                         Aaei  far
Production & Distribution       Scholarships                              Aaei  far
Coordinator.          _      CooCoordinato.Coordnator.                              Coordinator.
Planning &            _Educational Facilities    _                                  Agricultural          Coordinator,
Management       j            Preparation |            External Relations             Education             Pedagogy
Coordinator.     I           CooCoordinat.               Coordnator.    1           Coordinator.    1      Coordinator.
Budgetary Preparation          Teacingiaterals.                              ITechnology &    IContinuing
Aglocation Evaluation            Preparngateions            Scholarships             SceeEdatoEdain
& Controls                   Preparaion_____cejEucatio                                                      Eductio
Coordinator.                 Coordinator.    ICoordinator.    1orintr.Coriatr
Management &                   Educationai    1         Administration of          oHeath Education      Student Registratonr
Financial Audit             Material Purchase         Scholarship Students           e   E               S       R&. Placementraio
Coordinator.                                                                         Coordinator,    1     Coordinator,
Statistics &                                                                       Social Science          Research &
Information                                                                          Education     J       Publication
cak/w31260-2     1| 



ac \
C=\u
141.~~~~~~~



- 54 -
Annex II
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria for Selecting Higher Secondary Schools to be Equipped
1.        Schools which received incomplete equipment under previous IDA
projects will receive first priority.  The Government will provide a list
of these schools to the Association.
2.        Next preference will be given to schools which are functioning as
HSS but which have no or inadequate equipment, as identified by the
pedagogical animation teams during their field work.
3.        Conditions which will thus be taken into consideration are:
(a) Schools which are totally unequipped;
(b) Schools equipped under previous projects at which the equipment
is now expended;
(C) Schools which are not suitably equipped for the use of the
present curricula; and
(4)  Schools which have been upgraded from LSS to HSS.



E1MIUIA
SVa  ENCU           ERS
- 
Sdimhzl of TeabdmiaI MsIstam2
ar                                               a~~~Ta
SFEI:UQIMOR                 M-       ,s ' 89               ' '       91       't2 ' 93   '           94
h-1 
pfe. of SLIwlastlr                       24
lammer if 1mz  scoI                       12
1Urer in Widlife It   g                   6
1.ebz  in Foat M   a                      12
*.cwe 2n iuval sodollD                    12
lactom In rotwt _4wsuratun       12
erbx    in Um   dmc                      12
1tawat in Flsda t Zdkiu&kg                6
tauer iz n Favtry fLnmerig                12
Ar-
A-2; _ataadat
coi' Sall  ientla (a)                     12
Senior Soil Scelst (b)                    6
Sad-r Agriclastal  rin    (a)             12
S110 APriciltusil ftimer (b)              6
Sador Aptaaliral Fuoist (Hlirtg)          6
<_, Ap ial EmMat                          6
SMr Fleat Sdai it(Av=nwu)                 6                                                                                                                   j
Sendor Kant Stist Cbtlteutuem )            6
Seor Plat SLert1st (Rant ftitectim)       6
Sesdr A11nal SdJet  (a)                    6
Sadar kisel Sciseist (b)                  6
Sorttlim 1advdd8 (a)                       4
SoprintediTg tadudda (b)                   4
A-4; Aid Zan A        e
lecture in ApZa                           24
lectuer In Arid Zom Sois & WM= Ygt.       i8
lacuer In FoT e ad _ie II,                18
tmtser In Fnm Ils      t                  18
Lactwer in Agpo-rmstry                    12
letiger In %81 s*-odoy & teasion          18
A-5:  p. of 3gizdzu
Pntofr af  tMniml Tn8mezUg                36
Sailor 1xirer/prof. of ti. s*nmeriic    36                         1 _
Prdefm  -of tnl_mral Wm                   36-
Suito laiue/Ptif. of Tid. ftmern          36_
Nvem  of Gww36
Sudo tectue/Prof. of GaI'                 36
StVerietudin Tdadcim (Meartrf       &S.)   36
S91enlting TWad%mi   (ibdi. & bd. BE.) 36
A-77 A-8; X;r
APicultuiral &Wuat  SpedIaiST             12
AIIU  -      E
VW.k4w Pi       ( tizl 2 i)



2 1v Onsnm r                                 12
MM&ntrilkl   Bre                             12
movU  ai    giust                           12       _ __ _ __ _
Ekoes                                        12
60
APcoXti  (2418)                              18
is
tMgE    (2Kl8)                          Its         _ _ 
18
Total AA) - P.G.    132
A-10: Short C - 1d8 m-
nm% r Plamitf                                18
Riac   1Vri- th1Wgeat Specalist             18
ipieolture 6  al towioga  Specalist    18
bteriatimul tretizW Specialist               18 i
R    IC 9 liCT Pamluii Specialist            is
A-ll; Drr
AM
i2dstry Sp      List                         6
R:BIc  Sp -iait                              6
Uiokey S1uiatt                               6-
1tSI tca Specialist                          6
AU
PedegWia Specialist - 4z6  e                 6                -
6               =
6   _
B4; LUbrax
Llb-y Sdealist (a)                           12
blaary Specialt (b)                          12
B--5; bm 02wt.
Ekudt1m  Spediast                           12
Ccper App1catitm  Spialit                    6                 _
IT
C-1; hIt. Det. - ME
aps ttimu C     etiadtimk    Ssdalist       24
C-2; I=t. DMt. - QE
H4r 'ducation Flicy Speciatst                8          -   _
Hzvmr IbDela      t Sdlpealist               4 _
Ibngnt Syats  Spedalist                      4            -
Yacrvl nbSpecalst                             4           -
(o lOrL   976
-   ittil  asisttaze (B. 520,100) allncat4   to 10E for local trda&g saff.
- MAittonl  Ista1  (S. 56G,000) allocated to ClE for trajidrg of ergiari
and srd1tactura staff in tattes related to proje dvelopsmet.



- 56 -
Antiex IV
ETHIOFIA                                              Table I
SEYERIN E0UCTION P6OCT
fROJECT COST SUNHRY
(a1la NIllion)       (MI Nillion)                I Total
Z Foreign   ase
Local Foreti  Tol Lcal Foreign Totl Ewha            Costs
A. HffPO1R DEVE5HENT
1. Almova UnImVrSity
FIault,. lotoe.rv kesourCes                                     1,7    3.6  5.3   0.9    1,8  2.6             67        3
Post-Graduate Proada                                            3*4    5.4  8-.   1-7    2.6  4.3             61        5
Overall loPrOVei-t                                              8.7    8.6  17.4   4-3    4.2  8a5            so       10
Sub-Total AleOava Univers'tv                                      13.9   17.6  31.5   4.8    8.6  15.3           56       19
2. kara tNiversaiwt FaCUltv of SCienCe and Th.hnolofv
Arid Zone Agricultute                                           3.1    3.2  8.3   1.5    2.5  4.0             62       5
'eaattent of Esdasr.e*nr.                                       4.7    9.9  14.5   2.3    4.8  7.1            68       9
Stronathenirn  of FacultV Sctence aNd tWhO1s.L                 6.0    6.0  12.0   2.9    2.9  5.8            50       7
Sub-Total hoara Universitw Fraculty ot S0-1n.e NW TeCyhlO0gh      13.8   23.0  34.8   6.7   10.2  16.9           60      21
3. b.lor Col led  of Adriculture
AbOD J.L.A.                                                     3.7    4.2  7.9   1.8    2.0  3.0             53       5
Jima J.C.A.                                                     2.5    2.6  5.1   1.2    1.3  2.5             51       3
Sub-Total Junior CollegI  of AgrCUulture                           6,2    6.7  12.9   3.0    3.3  6.3            52       8
4. Post-Oradou  PrOgrae
Addis Ababa IilversitY                                          0.8    2.2  3.0   0.4   11   1.5             74       2
Sort Cycle ProArea                                              0.5    2.1  2.5   0.2    1.0  1.2             el        I
Sub-Total Post-Graduato Progtra                                    1.2    4.3  5.5   0.6    2.1  2.7             78       3
5. Teacher Training
Degree Level. Addis #ba UItiverSty                              0.4    0.9  1.3   0.2    0.4  Ob             66        1
Degre Level Ata  Uivrsit                                       0.3    0.6  1.0   0.2    0.3  0.5             65       1
in-Deoree Lewel                                                 1.3    1t8  3.1   0.6    0.9  1.5             58       2
Sub-lotal Teactr TraininA                                          2.1   31.   5,4   1.0    1.6  2.6             61       3
ub-Total INOER KD ENlt                                               37D2    52.9 90.1  19.1   25.8  a.8           59       53
B. O.ITY AND EQUITY
1. 6eneral Education
Instructioral Oalitv Support                                    5.1    5.4  10.7   2.5    2.7  5.2            52       6
'rstucttonal Katerial Provisr                                   3.3 l t o.7   5.0   1.6    0.1   2.4         34        3
I condaro School ECutrwnt                                       1.4    5.3  6.7   0.7    2.6  3.3             79       4
-Total Gental Education                                            9,8   12.6  2.4   4.0    6.1  10.9.          5        13
2. Higher Education
Libraries Delorent                                              1.9   100  11.9   0.9    4.9  5.8             e4        7
Exaination   velant                                             0.2    0.0  1.1   0.1    0.4  0.5             77       1
S-Totai HUi2r Cducation                                            2.2   10.8  13.0   1.       5.3  6.J         83        t
3. tasic EUcation fcilities                                        5.1   11.4 26.5   7.3    5.6  12.9            4       16
6-Tata!  MLITIT ID A EITUM                                           27.0   34.9  61.9  U12   17.0 30.             56       37
C. IsliiUtIlO   EWLOPIENT
1 nao t lIwrovent
Hanastrv ot Education                                           0,e    1.2  1.7   0.2    0.6  0.0             n         I
Consision of Highet Eduration                                   0.2    0.6  0.    0.1      0.3  0.4          75       0
Projects Develoraet C.HE.                                       3.3    C5  0.8   0.1    0.3  0.4              65       0
5t-otal Nowno     t Jtarovsnt                                      1.0    2.4  3*3   0.5    1.2  1.6             71       2
Sub-Total IISTITUTII I DELOPI(NIT                                     t.0    2.4  3.3   0.5    1.2  1.6            71        2
D. PRtESSIIIL SEINICEs                                                4.3    I.E   6.1   2.1    0.9  3.0           30        4
E. PIE-IST1IIt STUDIES/PILOT ACTIVITIES                              4.7    2.0  6h7    2.3    1.0  3.3           30        4
Fs PROJECT ANNIIS ItON                                                0.5    0.t  0.6   0.2    0.1  0.3            20        0
total MSCIII  COSTS                                                    74.6    4.1 1.7 N    6.3   45.  122           56      lt
PImical Continenclms                                                 3.3    5.0  IO.3   2.6    2.4  1.0           48        6
Price C4ntnsencin                                                    8.5    804  16.5   4.1    3.9  0.0           4t       10
Total PRDOECT W515                                                      *4  107.1 195.5  43.0   52.1  95.2           55      116
,SW== m19                 s        -- 15 3
Kovmbhr 19. 1987 I5'* .



- 57 -
Annex IV
Table 2
ETHIOPIA
Sn         EDCATInoN PmECT
SUNDRY ACCIS COST SIMilARY
(IRR llillion)       (US million)                Z Total
---------  -------    Z Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchage   Costs
I. INVESTHENT COSTS
As CIVIL MORKS
Site Horks                                5.3    3.6  8.9   2.6    1.7  4.3             40        5
Acadeaic I Communal                      27.9   18.6  46,5  136    to1  22.6            40       28
Boarding                                   7.3    4.9  12.2   3.6    2.4  5.9           40        7
Housing                                   4.1    2.7  6.9   2.0    1.3  3.3             40        4
Sub-Total CIVIL MS                          44.7   29.9 74.5  21.1   145 36.3              40       44
B. FURNITURE
Academic S Boarding                       2.0    3.0  5.0   1.0    1.5   2.4            60        3
hording                                   0.5    0.7  1.2   0.2    0.3  0.6             60        1
Housing                                   0.2    0.3  0.6   0.1    0.2  0.3             to        0
Sub-Total FURNITURE                          2.7    4.0  6.7   1.3    2.0  3.3             60        4
C. EQUIPNENT                                 3.6   20.6 24.2   t.8   10.0  11.8            85       14
D. INSTRUCTIONA  MATERIAL                    2.0   11.3  13.3   1.0    5.5   65            85        8
E. VEHICLES                                  0.4    2.2  2.6   0.2    1.1  1.2             85 e
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                      3.3   13.0  16*3   1.        6.3  7.9         80       to
S. FELLONSHIPS/TRAINING                      5.7    8.6  14.3   2?        4.2   7.0        60
H. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                     4.3    1.e    . S        t    .S  3.0          A        4
I. OPERATIONAL COST                          2.8    0.7  3.5    t '    '3   1.7            .;
J. PRE-INVESTW   STUDIES/PILOT ACTIVITIES    4.7    2.0      .      '    t    3.3          7'        4
K. PRIJECT AD$INISTRATION                    0.5     0.l          A         I ' t .:7i
Total ASELINE M0MTS                             74.6   94.  16^ , " .3       4r ( 82.           6      10
Phbsie.1 Contingencies           52                    . '  . . t. h I '   2.1    2.4  5*0  48        6
Price Continmekes                             8.5    9.0  16.5   4.1       3.9  8.0         49       10
Total ROJET COSTS                               88.4  107.1 195,5  43.0   52.1  95,.2          55      116
=:::=: sss- :a      --: 3a  ar2 p-:-:-   :C:=:-  _:-:wr
o_        1_ ,  1_-7 __ 1_- -  _   _ -_              _   ___  _-                       -   - --- - -------
NoBvedwr 19t 1987  15:46



wOrOn KVuiW
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 58 --  ---   -----  ---
Aimor Ib.ivunjtv. Facltih ot ktnc  end
Alma. hivusitv                           Tedwlole                  .must CollUen of                                    I,ade, Tr,mnj
-------- --    agvriculture      Post-Oraduatt P,o,gr-
Fsuttv                                                   Sttetg udnr  rd  ----------------- ----   imee trievel. Degtee Lto
Forst.v Powt-bradate   bovll    Atid Z2  keattamet t  Ftaulth sciene                   Jam    Addis Abab Shot C.cle  Adi u As          ura
haunC       PrS,s   tLw      nt Agriculture Ersinwrird   ad Tb dtlou.  Ao J.C.A. J.C.A.  Univeristv   Progra          Universit,   Uniwrul
wS           nmS              fl SS-rSS*         : "   US           S*O  flSflSfl  *:S.   .:~t:.   t..f:;  .zrnc:,. tt_-~  ,2::t:
0. nWRfwT COSTS
6. COlITS 036
8it1 2ED&.                                I640        302.0    1W64.0        537.0        657.0         1.485,0        MO30   386.0       24.4           -          13.0        44
keadie I Ctumal                         io9.0          832.0    3645.0      2,331.0       3283.O         10.0         1696.0 2N370.0          -                     410.0      311
Oot                                           -      1.184.0   31M.0              -            *         513.0       10954.0  16.0             -
Hoi4ou-                                                    -    3.864.0       355.0            -           40810     1$202.0  mo.0         240.
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __._---    _--__-----                                    --    ---      -------- .........  .. . ..  ---- .   ....
IahTotl CIVIl dS                           0.257,0      2r318.0   02.988,0     3.223.0      3940.0          892.0       5.345.0 3.711.0      264.0                     443.0       33'
9. FRldlUIE
ka e I floodinl                            7900         95.0      44-0        052.0        367.0           209.0       159.0  148.0           -                      35.0        21
labrdni                                       -         MO27.0    3.O             -            -           m.0         107.0   13.0                       --
IbminO                                        -            -      31000        29.0            -            29.0       113.0   63.5         19.0
s.h-Tou  nlUE                                 79.0        m.0    1.150.0         1810         367.0             .0        379.0  224.0        t9-O          -          35.0        74
C. El09D2                                    7990         911.0    3W01.0      0408.0       3.2.0           24284.0     1.771.0  978.0        130.0       69.0          65.0        1
D. IUIWTlwlm  1TERIUM                            -            -          -           -                            -           -      -           *       596.0
E. WmoES                                     309.0        339.0      176.0       378.0         21.0               -        49.0   49.0           -        90.0         297,0       91
F. lIEIL. l8s3ST                           1,5450       1.20.0           -     1.80.0       4.920.0                       204.5      -     2.244.0    1,770.0          3M,O       3m
6. 0Ul.lW          I                        f050,0      3.736.0          -     1#109.0      10478,0                        00.0      -       346.0                      77.0       7n
H.  PRWE      CIST                               -                       - =-                     -                           -      -           '          '              -
1- OwTIn tiWS
J. FiE-AD13WT hIOlESfPtWeT AVmTh E8              -            -                            -                     -                   -
K. PRUECT 631S11671R\8II-
Tatal 1ll5m8121   on11                        5.339       8.764.0   17P3U40      8,254.0     141VA.0         11,967.0     7058.0 5.062.0     34003.0    2.525.0       1316.0        f99
otal  NaE cmTS                                 5.339.0      0.765.0   27,364.0     0254.0      14,549.0        11.967.0     700.O $5062.0      3.003.0    2.525.0       0.3)6.0       99M
FPhitdl  Cav.rlirn                            I69.6        2B8l.   10.5M          407.3        603.5         1.044,0       642.0  43t.2        33.9       33.3          49.3        37
PriCO CeWinie                                 447.4        749.0    IUO.4         769.8      IIRB.6         10436.1        710.0  466.9       222.2      216.1         121A4        04
total 9S0.ECT cTm                              5.95060      M.8OM3.    20.483.?    9431,1      067312.1        14447.0      9218.0 5,960.1     1.259.0    2,774.4       I0486.7     0t.l
----flt   ---h-A --lStUlplflt  ------.  Tfltflfflfl   ,nr, -h tr S --,Z.s    -.- ... pr: -trl1                                 ---.= r,nrn,
Tam                                           5.          881.6    219.0.7        947.2      1.669,9         1.54.?      I00.99  t51,6        24.2       262.4         151.7       101
Tr,i,in fC.g                                3.962.6     N5.M1   10.013.3        52.1129     114200.5         7065.6      480.0 2.98.7    2M4023       2,257.0         566.1       '16
21ort 19, 1987 15:43



Ane  IV
Table 3
- -   TI MO EWuIIY                                   MttiIlUTlI L IEWEU
Guwal EOeatiu                                                         bg .t _a on  gb     t
--a w, Educrtinn                                                                                                             Phwlui
Instet.wttul 8,Ora     -  dariWc                                     Cosiin et of P                         Fff-IWE8IEMt                             Contutuifs
Degree b    tructotnal   NAtal  SCImXD    Libatie  Exnieation Edcation  N1inisttv               Highr    D0v.nt   nU 3              ITuJSlinPLot     PORET
vii     hulitw Surort  Proision   Emuint Dcalovt   Dv loA  Facilitin   Educatio    Edatim                   C.t-.E.       ml5         XTITE 41   JS lTI Totali                I   b
4'.o           217.0        333.0               -           -          2.510.0           -1-                     -             -                             -     914.0  10.0    91.4--
720.0         4,121.0      2.325,0         -                           21,49.0            -                        _                                              4641.0  10.0 4t65. 4
-            - '                   -          -          -            -     ~      *          -             -              -              -  12.1990  10.0 11219.9
-                     ,            _                                  * -          -          -            -               -              -   61.0  10.0   686.1
767.0         4,338.0      2'458.0         -                 -         23.VB7.0                       -             -            -                            -  74,409.0  10.0 7,485.8
86.0           215.0         79.0  lISi4.0                  -          1.273.0        79.0            -                 -.                                   -   4964.0  5.0   24B.2
_                     *-* -                    -            -                           -              -   1.171.0  5.0    59.6
=                      --.                     .            -          -             -              *              -      564.0 5.0 0    2.2
86.0           215,0         79.0  I164.0             -          -    1273.           29.0                   -          -             -              -            66990   5.0   m.0
148.0           309.0        190.0  5,170.0        828.0      420.0    1.252-0        187.0        225.0                        -                             -  24.192.0  5.0  19209.6
-         2.227.0            -         -    10.212.0          -          -        262.0            -          -             -              -              -  3,297.0  5.0   664.9
16-.0              -                                  -       102.0          -        120.9            -      175.0            -              -               -   21566*0  0.0      0.0
-            -                 386.0      273-0          -        360.0        145.0          -            -               -              -  16.252,0  0.0      0.0
1,906.0         24169.0           -         -       451.0       274.0          -        26.0         245.0      660.0            -                             -  14,304.0  0.0       0.0
*  -     -           -           -          -           -             -          -      6.142.0              -              -   6.142.0  10.0   614.2
- I436.0     2.070.0        -           -           -          -                        --   315"d.0  0.0                                                             0.0
*   *  - -   -  67001.0       -   6700.0  0.0       0.0
-              =-                     -            -          -          -           -             -          -            -              -           600.0     600.0  0.0      0.0
3069.0         10,694.0      4,997.0  6#734.0    11.877.0    1.089.0   266512.0       1.640          915.0      935.0      6.142.0        6.700.0          640.0 168v?46.0  6.1 00272.4
3069.0        10,694.0      4o997.0  6,734.0    11,977.0    ItO1 .0   26,512.0      1,484.0         B15.0      935.0      6,142.0        6,700.0          600.0 168 46.0  6.1 1N02724
80.4           571.4        279.2    336.7        552.0       21.0    2,525.0         23.9         11.3          -         6U4.2              -              -  10o272.4  0.0      0.0
321.0        1.158.2         470.9    451.3        782.B      104.4    3.072.l        1639          78.7       92.5        619.9          724.3           66.6  16457.9  59    973.6
., . . ............ -----.--.I....     .    ,    ... .I-     ------ -  --  -   -----.  - --     -  .. ..            ,__._.      -  --- --
3.470.4         ,4.3.6       So 5 747.1  7.522.0    132,11.0    1214.4   32#109.1    1,871.8        905.0       917.5      7.376.0        7,4243           666.6  195M2..3  5.8 114246.0
.. :-~~ ,,g:SS'-'; tttt-tt:tt S::t.t &t:'..SGgttII ttZt:tt=tt  tftttflu:g tttt=St:  flt~Stt .:rtssflts: #fl.rtflflt.  tflf.tfaf,.nr.nsaD =t,.  s-G=. t_:;: szt--
299s.         W3X.4          582.7    988,1      1,fl0.4      M32.4    3.238.4        182.6         84.0       79.5        737M6          519.7           66.7  70358.1  6.0  0.214.5
l.9M9.0        6       42M   1930.9  5455.0    11,081.4        938.0   13M603.7      1.35'.0        680.1       593.9      ,1185.6        2.188.1          130.6 107115.^  S.0 5.362.9



IOIOA
~11v 



- 59 -
Annex IV
Table 4
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE Of PHYSICAL FACILITIES
FY (July l-June 30)               1988      1989       1990      1991      1992       1993      1994       1995
Calendar Year                 1987      1988       1989      1990      1991       1992      19 193    1994
A.  MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
1. ALFMAYA UNIVERSITY
Civil Works            00    0000t##             -=0t#^   XXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXXXVVVV  VVVV
Futnitore-Equipment              00000  0######n  U-.XXX   XXXXXXXX  XXXVVVVV  VW
2. ASMARA UNIVERSITY
Civil Works          0000    00#0ttt## ------  =-XXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXVVVVVV  VV
Furniture-Equilpment          000000Jt0 #O#Of  f --  -u---XX  XXXXXXXX  XXXIOCXX  VVVVVVV
3. AMSO I.C.A.
Civil Works                     000000  o0####  ......XX  XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXVVVVVV  VV
Furniiture-Equipment                00  0000###t ### -n  .SXXXX  XXXXXXXX  VVVVVVVV
4.  JIMMA J.C.A.
Civil Works                     000000  00##9##  .....X   XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXVVVVVV  VV
Furniture-Equipment                00  00000000oo   #    .....-...XXXX  XXXXXXXX  VVVVVVVV
5. POST-ORADUATE PROGRAM
Civil Works                       0000  ######    --OXXOX  XIXXXXXX  VVVVVVVV
Furititure-Equipment                        s#O- o-nXX    x XXXXX  VYVVYVY
6. TFACHdiS TKAINING
Civtl Works                         00  000000##  *###rn.a--XXXXXX  XXXXXXVV  VVVVVV
Furnittutre-Equi pment              00  00000000  ##D......  XYXXXXXX  XXX XXXX  VVVVVVVV
13. *Ql1ALITY AND FQUITY
.  GFNFRAL FDUCATION
Civil Wotrs                       0000  0000#01#    #m.  XXXXXXXX  XXXXVVVV  VVV
Ftir l ture-Equipment                   0000000f  1111-..   XXXXXX  XXXXXXVV  VVVVVV
2. Hlt;na FMIICATION
Eqnilpmetit                         00  00000t0J  #O--..D..go  SXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XVVVVVVV
3.  BASIC Fl)IUCATION
Civil Works          0000    001#1111   m-= ...  XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXVVVVVV  VV
Fuirnttusre-Fqoitpment  0(J00    00001####  1#3   XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  XXVVVVVV  VW
C. TNSTITIJiTONAL
DEVELOPMENT
I* MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
MOE                   0000    0001#1-  ----XXXX  XXXXVVVV  VVVV
2* MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT
CHF.                    00    0000####  "---=XX  XXXXXXVV  VVVVVV
1. 000 Sites selection, preparation of list; ### Design, bid docutments; -- Tender, award; XXX Constzuction,
manufacture, delivery; VVV Maintenance.
2. Symbols 00, I#, -, XX, VV represent a quarter.
3. Credit effectiveness: April 1, 1988,



- 60 -                                  Table 5
ETHIOPIA VII
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ Thousand)
Quarters           Disbursement         Accumulated         Undisbureed
1  1/                1,600              1,600              68,400
2                     800               2,400              67,600
3                      800              3,200              66,800
4                    1,600              4,800              65,200
5                   2,100               6,900              63,100
6                   2,600               9,500              60,500
7                    3,200             12,700              57,300
8                   4,100              16,800              53,200
9                   4,100              20,900              49,100
10                   4,300              25,200              44,800
11                   4,300              29,500              40,500
12                   4,500              34,000              36,000
13                   4,100              38,100              31,900
14                   4,000              42,100              27,900
15                   3,500              45,600              24,400
16                   3,500              49,100              20,900
17                   3,000              52,100              17,900
18                   3,000              55,100              14,900
19                   2,500              57,600              12,400
20                   2,400              60,000              10,000
21                   2,000              62,000               8,000
22                    1,800             63,800               6,200
23                   1,000              64,800               5,200
24                    1,200             66,000               4,000
25                    1,500             67,500               2,500
26                    2,500             70,000                -
17 From Credit effectiveness.



ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS FOR EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES MONITORING
I. Alemays University of Agriculture (AUA)
a. Faculty of Forestry Resources
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Enrol 25 students p.a. in            Enrolment and output        At start of academic         1986/87.  No enrolment of
B.Sc. Forestry program in            data.                      year 1988/89 and              B.Sc. Forestry students.
the Faculty of Forestry                                         annually.
Resources of AUA.
2.  Recruit Fellowship holders           Enrolment, placement,       Annually, beginning 1988,   1986/87.  Faculty of Forestry
for training as teaching             and completion of          and at project completion.  Resources did not exist.
staff.                               training program.                                                                         0
Teacher data.
3.  Recruit Technical Assistance         Recruitment data.           1988 onwards.                 1986/87.  No project TA staff
teaching staff.                      Completion of assign-                                    in position.
ment reports.
4.  Revise and consolidate               Review of curriculum        Annually and at project       1986/87.  Curriculum in draft
curriculum and teaching              and course teaching        completion.                   form.  No detailed teaching
programs.                            programs.                                                programs.
5.  Train 25 B.Sc. Forestry              Output data (examina-       End of each academic year   1986/87.  No enrolment of
graduates p.a.                       tion results).             beginning 1988/89 and at    B.Sc. Forestry students
project completion.          existed at AUA.



I. Alema8a University of Agriculture (AUA)
b. Post-graduate Program
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Increase total post-graduate         Enrolment data.            Annually and at project       1986j87.  Post-graduate
enrolment to 100.                                               completion.                   enrolment 45.
2.  Recruit Fellowship holders           Enrolment, placement,       Annually, beginning 1988,   1986/87.  Teacher data.
for training as teaching             and completion of          and at project completion.
staff.                               training program.
Teacher data.
3.  Recruit Technical Assistance         Recruitment data.           1988 onwards.                1986/87.  No project TA staff
teaching staff.                      Completion of assign-                                    in position.
ment reports.
4.  Prepare new curricula in Soil        Review of curricula         1989 and at project           1986/87.  No training programs
Science and Agricultural             and teaching programs.    completion.                    in Soil Science and Agricul-  ;o
Engineering.  Revise Marketing                                                                tural Engineering at post-
course in Agricultural                                                                        graduate level.
Economics curriculum.
5.  Train 50 M.Sc. graduates p.a.        Annual enrolment of         End of each academic year   1986/87.  Graduation data.
new M.Sc. students.        beginning 1988/89 and at
Output data (examina-      project completion.
tion results).



I. Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA)
c. Overall Improvements of Common Facilities.
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                   BASELINE DATA
1.  Improve training quality of         Output data (examina-      End of each academic year   1986/87.  Output data
500 undergraduates annually.        tion results).             beginning 1988/89 and at    (examination results).
project completion.
8t
.Q



II. Asmara University (AU)
a. Department of Arid-Zone Agriculture
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED                 WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Enrol 40 students p.a. in             Enrolment and output        At start of academic          1986/87.  No previous enrol-
B.Sc. Arid-Zone Agriculture          data.                        year 1988/89 and              ment of B.Sc. Arid-Zone
progra, in the Faculty of                                         annually.                     Agriculture students.
Science and Technology of A.U.
2.  Recruit Fellowship holders            Enrolment, placement,       Annually, beginning 1988,   1986/87.  Department of Arid-
for training as teaching             and completion of            and at project completion.  Zone Agriculture did not
staff.                                training program.                                         exist.
Teacher data.
3.  Recruit Technical Assistance          Recruitment data.           1988 onwards.                  1986/87.  No project TA staff
teaching staff.                      Completion of assign-                                      in position.
ment reports.
4.  Revise and consolidate                Review of curriculum        Annually and at project        1986/87.  Curriculum in draft >
curriculum and teaching               and course teaching         completion.                   form.  No detailed teaching
programs.                             programs.                                                 programs.
5.  Train 40 B.Sc. Arid-Zone              Output data (examina-       End of each academic year   1986/87.  No enrolment of
Agriculture graduates p.a.            tion results).              beginning 1988/89 and at    B.Sc. Arid-Zone Agriculture
project completion.           students existed at A.U.



II. Asmara University (AU)
b. Departm nt of Industrial and Mechanical Engineering and Geology
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                     HOW MEASURED                WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Enrol 140 students p.a. in the        Enrolment and output        At start of 1988/89           1986/87.  Intake of Geology
following programs:                  data.                        academic year and             students.  No previous enrol-
B.Sc. Indust. Engineering  30                                   annually.                      ment of Engineering students.
B.Sc. Mech. Engineering    30
B.Sc. Geology                20
Diploma in Indust. Eng.    20
Diploma in Mech. Eng.        30
2.  Recruit Fellowship holders for        Enrolment, placement,       Annually, beginning 1988,   1986/87.  No project Fellow-
training as teaching staff.           and completion of           and at project completion.  ships awarded.
training program.
Teacher data.
3.  Recruit Technical Assistance          Recruitment data.           1988 onwards.                  1986/87.  No project TA staff
teaching staff.                       Completion of                                             in position.                     >
assignment reports.
4.  Prepare detailed curriculum           Review of curriculum        Annually and at project        1986/87.  Curriculum in
and teaching programs.                and course teaching         completion.                   cutline draft.  No detailed
teaching programs.
5.  Train 140 students p.a. in            Output data (examina-       End of each academic year   1986/87.  No enrolment of
the fields detailed in 3.             tion results).              beginning 1988/89 and at    Engineerig students existed
above.                                                            project completion.           at AU.
m m
pA 4
I 4 



II. Asmara University (AU)
c. Faculty of Science and Technology, Common Facilities
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Provide training for an              Enrolment and output       At start of 1988/89           1986/87.  Intake of Geology
additional first year er-olment    data.                        academic year and             students.  No previous enrol-
of 180 students in the                                          annually.                     ment of agriculture and
following programs:                                                                           engineering students.
B.Sc. Arid-Zone Agric.      40
B.Sc. Indust. Engineering  30
Diploma in Nech. Eng.       30
8.Sc. Geology               20
Diploma in Indust. Eng.    30
Diploma in Nech. Eng.       30
I1



III-a. Ambo Junior College of Agriculture (J.C.A.)
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Enrol 150 Diploma in Agricul-        Enrolment and output       At start of 1988/89           1986187.  Enrolment approxi-
ture students p.a.                   data.                      academic year and             mately 100.
annually.
2.  Recruit Technical Assistance         Recruitment data and        1988/89 and 1989/90          1986/87.  No project TA staff
Specialist (shared with Jimma        completion of assign-      academic year.                in position.
(J.C.A.)                             ment report.
3.  Hold 4 two-week Curriculum           Review of participant's   After each workshop in         New curriculum, due to begin
Development and Teaching             workshop reports, draft   1988 and 19b9 and              in 1988/89 academic year, has
Methodology workshops.  Each         teaching programs and      periodically until            has no detailed course
for 10 participants, 5 each          teaching materials         project completion..          teaching programs nor teaching
from Ambo and Jimma J.C.A.'s.        (visual-aids and                                         aid material.
written hand-outs).
4.  Train 150 2-year Agriculture         Output data (examina-       End of each academic         1986/87.  Potential output
Diplomates p.a.                      tion results).             year, beginning 1988/89       approximately 100 but drop-out
and at project completion.  (failure) rate up to 20%.
ol.
t4



I11-b.  Jimma J'jnior College of Agriculture (J.C.A.)
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED                 WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Enrol 200 Diploma in Agricul-         Enrolment and output        At start of 1988/89           1986/87.  Enrolment approxi-
ture students p.a.                   data.                        academic year and             mately 200.
annually.
2.  Recruit Technical Assistance          Recruitment data and        1988/89 and 1989/90            1986/87.  No project TA staff
Specialist (shared with Ambo          completion of assign-       academic year.                in position.
(J.C.A.)                             ment report.
3.  Hold 4 two-week Curriculum            Review of participant's   After each workshop in          New curriculum, due to begin
Development and Teacning             workshop reports, draft   1988 and 1989 and                in 1988/89 academic year, has
Methodology workshops.  Each          teaching programs and       periodically until            has no detailed course
for 10 participants, 5 each           teaching materials          project completion.           teaching programs nor teaching
from Jimma and Ambo J.C.A.'s.         (visual-aids and                                          aid material.
written hand-outs).
4.  Train 200 2-year Agriculture          Output data (examina-       End of each academic           1986/87.  Potectial output
Diplomates p.a.                       tion results).              year, beginning 1988/89       approximately 200 but drop-out
and at project completion.  (failure) rate up to 20X.
0.
tow
co



IV. Post-graduate Programs - AAU
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
a) Strengthening existing programs
-   Reduce wastage rate of M.Sc.         -  Enrollment/output       Annually, beginning          1987.  Total enrollment was
courses in Natural Science,            date.                    1989.                        121, output was 42.
Technology and Economics/
Planning, by increasing output to
about 53.
-   Recruit TA experts to assist         -  TA implementation       Annually, beginning          1987.  See above
strengthen existing post-              schedule.                1989.  At project
graduate studies.                       Recruitment data.       completion.
Periodic review of
inputs by
experts.
Reduction of new
p.g. %urses.
b)  Establishing new p.g. programs                                                                                             0
-   Enroll about 30 under-graduate      -  Enrollment/output        Annually, beginning at       1987.  No M.Sc. accounting and
students/year in M.Sc. accounting      data.                   start of 1988/89              management courses existed.
and management courses.                                        academic year.
-   Recruit TA experts to asslst,        -  TA implementation       Start 1988.  Review          1987.  No TA staff in
establish and carry out M.Sc.           schedule.  Review       annually.                    position.
courses In accounting and              inputs in new
management-                             courses.
-   Recruit fellowship holders for       -  Enrollment,             Start 1988.  Review          1987.  M.Sc. course in
accounting training abroad.            placement dats.          annually and at project      accounting and management did
Completion of           completion.                  not exist.
training program,
teacher data.



V. Short-Cycle Post-graduate Programs
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                   BASELINE DATA
1.  Establish up to six                 Course under active        Semi-annually, beginning    1987.  No courses in
experimental programs.              development, or in         1988/89 academic year.       operation.
operation.
2.  Provide graduate level training    Fields selected and         Annually, beginning 1989/   1987.  No fields selected.
in selected fields.                 justified on manpower      90 academic year.
requirements grounds.
3.  Train two cohorts of 12             Course enrollment data.   Semi-annually, beginning    1987.  Io enrollment.
persons each in tnose fields.                                  1989/90 academic year.
a
Iy 



VI. Degree Level Teacber Training
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Provide training only to pre-       Review student              Annually, beginning          1987.  All MAU and AU degree
selected students.                  selection procedures.       1988/89 academic year.       students take pedagogy
courses.
2.  Make training of AAU                 Review of University       Annually beginnig 1988/      1987.  Faculty of Education
responsibility of Faculty           procedures.                 89 academic year.            responsible solely for service
of Education.                                                                                courses.
3.  Emphasize subject matter             Review degree teacher      Annually, beginning          1987.  Emphasis :.s on general
pedagogy and practical              training curriculum.        1988/89 academic year.       and theoretical pedagogy.
teaching experience.
4.  Respond more directly to MOE         Effective coordination    Annually, beginning   .       1987.  MDE feels that closer
teacher needs.                      mechanism in place.         1988189 academic year.       co6perotion in the formation
of teachers Id desirable.
-4"
_ !



VII. Non-Degree Teacher Training
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Reduce deficit of trained            Regularly collected        Annually, beginning           1987.  About 35% of primary
primary school teachers.             education statistics.      1988/89 academic year.        school teachers are
uncertified.
2.  Establish distance education         Course in operation;        Semi-annually, beginning    1987.  Certification course is
capability for teacher training.   enrollment and couple-    1991/92 academic year.           in preliminary design stage.
tion data.
3.  Support existing summer              Courses in operation;       Annually, beginning 1988.   1987.  Such courses exist.
training programs.                   enrollment and comple-                                   Project supports their
tion data.                                               continuation or expansion.
I
-.
C



VIII. Instructional Quality Support
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                   BASELINE DATA
1. Test practical curricula at          New workshops in place    Semi-annually, beginning    1987.  Curriculum development
7th and 8th grade levels.           and in full use.           1990/91 academic year.       has covered six grades, and
has begun on LSS programs.
2.  Expand pedagogical animation        Number and quality of      Semi-annually, beginning    1987.  Pedagogical animation
program.                            visits as revealed by      1988/89 academic year.       program in operation; requires
MOE statistics and                                      strengthening.
reports.
3.  Expand and improve school           Number and quality of      Semi-annually, beginning    1987.  School inspection
inspection services.                visits as revealed by      1989/90 academic year.       program in operation; requires
MOE statistics and                                      strengthening.
reports.
ws
IX
<4



IX. Instructional Materials Provision
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WhEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
lo Make text and other school            Revolving funds in         Annually beginning           1987.  Books available only
books available for sale.           operation; book sales       1988/89 school year.         through loans from schools.
statistics.
2.  Provide new warehouse for           Warehouse In operatlon.   Annually, beginning 1990.   1987.  Crowded warehouse
educational materials.                                                                       factlities in a secondary
school.
c



X. Equipment for Secondary Schools
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                   BASELINE DATA
1.  Provide science lab and             Nuaber os schools with    Annually beginning            1987.  Some HSS are suitably
practical equipment to about        equipment in operational  1989/90 school year.          equipped, many are not.
34 HSS.                             use.
I1
vse



XI. Higher Education Libraries
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Augment book collections in          Books procured and         Annually, beginning           1987.  Library collections
nine higher education                available for              1989/90 academic year.        depleted and out-of-date.
institutions.                        circulation.
2.  Provide limited library              Equipment procured and    Annually, beginning            1987.  Library equipment
equipment to those same              in use.                    1989,90 academic year.        decrepit or lacking.
institutions.
3.  Train four librarians at             Trainees returned and       Annually, beginning          1987.  Shortage of librarians
masters level,                       in library service.         1990/91 academic year.       at post-degree level.
4.  Upgrade library services             Technical specialists      Annually, beginning           1987.  Library service in need
through technical assistance.        in post.                   1988/89 academic year.        of technical upgrading.
Io 
OQ
a~



XII. Examinations Development
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                   HOW MEASURED                WHEN MEASURED                   BASELINE DATA
1.  Improve operational effective-      Volume and promptness       Annually, beginning          1987.  Examinations service
ness of nationally standard-        of examinations.            1989/90 academic year.       operates with minimal staff
ized examinations.                                                                           and equipment, mostly part-
time workers.
2.  F.ovide equipment to examina-       Equipment procured and    Annually, beginning            1987.  Existing equipment is
tions service,                      in operation.               1989!90 academic year.       decrepit and unreliable.
3.  Provide training in examina-         Trainees returned to       Annually, beginning          1987.  Examinations service
tions specialties.                  examinations work in        1990/91 academic year.       has skeleton crew, poorly
Ethiopia.                                               trained.
4.  Provide technical assistance.        Technical specialists      Annually, beginning           1987.  Examinations service in
in post.                   1989/90 academic year.       need of technical upgrading.
.10



XIII. Basic Education Facilities
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               IWHEN MEASURED                   BASELINE DATA
1.  Provide primary schools to 100       Schools built and in       Annually, beginning           1987.  About 9000 primary
selected deprived communities.       use.                       1989/90 academic year.        schools in operation.
2.  Provide accompanying adult           Facilities built and        Annually, beginning          1987.  Adult education
education facilities.                in use.                    1989/90 academic year.        facilities operating in the
well organized communities.
3.  Stimulate basic education            Proportion of females       Annually, starting           1987.  About 39% of primary
opportunities for women.             in school and in adult    1988/89 school year.           school enrollees are girls.
education programs.
co



XIV. Institutional Development
a.   Ministry of Education
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
1.  Provide physical inputs to           Procurement and            Annually, beginning 1989.   1987.  MOE in need of enhanced
support MOE planning, manage-        operational use of                                       equipment, etc., because of
ment and staff development.          designated inputs.                                       increased responsibilities.
2.  Provide training to MOE staff.       Trainees returned to        Annually, beginning 1989.   1987.  Staff training program
their jobs.                                              requires enhancement.
3.  Provide technical assistance         Technical specialists      Annually, beginning 1990.   1987.  Technical expertise
to selected MOE offices.             in post.                                                 needed in key fields.
'IO
0Q



XIV. Commission for Higher Education
b. Policy Development and Management Capabilities; Project Development Capabilities
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVE                    HOW MEASURED               WHEN MEASURED                    BASELINE DATA
-   Recruit TA experts to assist         -  TA implementation        Start 1988/89.               1987.  No TA experts in
in Higher Education related             schedule.  Review                                     position.
matters.                                of inputs by each
expert.
-   Recruit fellowship recipients        -  Enrollment,              Start 1988/89.               1987.  No project fellowships
to be trained abroad in                 placement, comr-                                      awarded.
Higher Education related                pletion of train-
matters.                                ing program and
teacher data.
-   Organize Study Tours to study        -  Review proposed          Start 1988/89.               1987.  NA.
overseas systems, and select            program and
participating staff.                    reports by
participants.                                                                         a
-   Organize Study Tours for 3           -  Review proposed          Start 1988/89.                1987.  NA.
registrars - recruit                    program and
participants.                           participants
reports.
-   Select one staff to be               -  Review proposed          Start 1988/89.               1987.  NA.
trained in info. systems.               training program
Review Evaluation
Report by staff.
-   Select statf to be trained           -  Review proposed          Start 1988/89.                1987.  NA.
for project development/                training
managemento                             programs.
x
o0c



- 21 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
(Date)
International Development Association
181 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Re: Seventh Education Prolect
Dear Sirs:
In connection with the proposed credit to the People's Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia (PDRE) for the Seventh Education Project (the Project), the
PDRE intends to undertake or to continue certain activities essential to the
successful fulfillment of its long-term policies for the development of its
education system.
In accordance with national priorities, these activities incl.ude,
but need not be limited to, the following:
(i) establishment of a working committee to integrate teacher
training programs at Addis Ababa University (MU) with the needs of the
Ministry of Education for secondary school teachers;
(ii) provision, through a distance education course for primary
school teachers, for certification fully equivalent to regular teacher
training institute completion;
(iii) provision of adequate consumable materials and supplies for
effective educational use of all workshops and laboratories which are
provided for under the Project;
(iv) inclusion in the recurrent budget of the Ministry of
Education provision for operational costs supported under the Project, when
and as that support terminates;
(v) active pursuit of twinning arrangements with external
universities in carrying out the major technical assistance activities
included in the Project;
(vi) establishment of mechanisms to ensure the relevance of
agricultural education to user needs, in particular regarding research and
extension services;



- 82 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
(vii) placement of students on temporary practical training
assignments within or outside the formal agricultural education curriculum;
(viii) exploration of the means to generate additional resources
for use by particular higher education institutions, with emphasis on those
supported under the Project; and
(ix) active exploration and development of means to improve equity
of access to educational services for those in remote areas, for the
economically disadvantaged and for women.
To the extev requlred, we may also wish to draw on the funds
to be provided under the proposed credit for pro-investment studies and
pilot activities to enable PDRE to undertake, tntel aifa, the following
activities in addition those set forth above:
(i) preparation for the use of modern information
technology in the future development of higher education libraries;
(ii) upgrading and expansion of the capacity to use
standardized examinations as a tool for control of education system quality
and effectiveness;-
(iLL) further development of the capabilities for
management and policy analysis at the Ministry of Education and at the
Commission for Higher Education;
(iv) establishment of a more effective system for
maintenance of the physical property of higher education iustitutions;
(v) to follow up on previously identified needs,
development and upgrading of accounting. including training and auditing
services in Ethiopia; and
(vi) testing of rural health training programs for medical
students at MAU.
Very truly yours,
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF ETHIOPIA
By Authorized Representative



- 83 -
Annex VII
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTEP DOCUMENTS
A. Documents Related to the Education Sector
Ethiopia: An Assessment of Middle Level Manpower Requirement in the
Agricultural Sector (1985 - 1995), R.J.Q. Castley, Addis Ababa
University, April 1986.
Retrospects and Prospects of Agricultural Research, Part I, Historical
Background and Future Directions, Alemaya University of Agriculture,
March 1986.
Retrospects and Prospects of Agricultural Research, Part II,
Developments of Research Stations, Alemaya University of Agriculture,
March 1986.
'Budgeting and Finance in Higher Education in Ethiopia," draft working
paper, Cambridge Education Consultants Ltd., December 1986.
"Education and Examinations in Ethiopia," draft working paper,
Cambridge Education Consultants, October 1986
'Qualified Manpower Requirements for the Ethiopian Industrial Sector,"
Comission for Higher Education, January 1987.
"Status of Higher Education in Ethiopia: An Analytical Overview,"
Commission for Higher Education, November 1986.
"Summary Data on Higher Education," Commission for Higher Education,
October 1986.
"Education Statistics - Summry Tables," first draft, n.d. (November
1986).
-Study of the Accounting and Auditing Services in Ethiopia," 3 Volumes,
CIPPA, February 1986.
'The Current Situation of Women in Ethiopia," Eva Poluka, May 1987.



- 84 -
Annex VII
Page 2 of 2
"Currsnt Machinery for the Integration of Women in Development in
Ethiopia," Alasebu Gebre Selassie, Addii Ababa, March 1987.
"Ethiolia, A Strategy for Assistance to Women in Development,"
Stein-Erik Kruse, May 1)87*
B. Documents 3elated to the Project
Project on the Establishment of a Degree Program in Forestry at
Alemaya University of Agriculture, CHE-1985.
A Proposal for Developing the Faculty of Arid Zone Agriculture at
Asmara University, CHE-1985.
Annex to "A Proposal for Developing the Faculty of Arid Zone
Agriculture at Asmara University," Course Schedules and Descriptions,
Asmara University, March 1986.
A Project to Establish a Graduate Program in Education, CHE-1985.
Requirement to Improve Science at Addis Ababa University Library
System, CHE-1985.
Proposal on the Strengthening of the Graduate Program at Addis Ababa
University, CHE-1985.



I ORD 20664
tA | ril4OF22r& >^uol ,3 g   gr   4> g+stW   e   ' ;t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ir  SE X >siw                                '  E T H I Ci P I A~~~5  H  0   I 
SE,u                                               SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
>   U  aX   ~~ttbl S.                              \ceeaareer                                                                                                 1  Addia AbateUnivrsity
F   I)                                    I  A-rrrerUalye,ay
coco                                      lrr.e r                     0 t a     /  ,~  I                                 FD!,i  AemaytJ UniooatVtOt v Agriculture
ADb. Junlor Collaeg.f Agrinluatdm
ItoN                                                                                                                                                             5 xke3Hotto   r  Itt    Note  Eir r t-oy ealtles wl Utlocatd In
r t v / L - -; st200.                                                   Ro: eoay M 4t aU.Pira
___                               ^                                    ,          at                                            4, irrto1t na _e e  Agrcltur
_mm tl0oo   ,,,,,,          flaecara, eye                                                             -                 \,                             pN E l 1                1 -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rae                                                                                aca ay;lW  w_g r    gmi,ori /r-sra
Srtovw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 Ir \                                                                                                                     0+  h.oOeaa er peOla 
/4  iaJ.e  O.  ta  -                   a    /d,I F  Oa   P A d
sr S  U   D  A   N                                                                                                                   I" .ad  -- S2                    _  eDmOUTI
n~~~~~~ae                                                                          a -al                          45                     0l/  
<~~~~~~-                   aes          OJOoa                     45;
v            t a<A,bt, cvW                                         t                   X             ty -.-  00;01.
r,            a         1.000 _or          >          ;e,os.le,   _'-' '              '~'~    >          9tt  9
Sc.  A>! NA. . Y                                                   /  A
E UGANDA    2X  t             r, LaA  N   Y   A J! ~  ~*i^to  1r              /   dX               w        ~ t   -              j   42' nyOCTOBER 1987
''~ ~ ~ ~~~~yre               yo'            /                                                               ate |/   XH/u     



