Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19302
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT No. 1873 ET)
May 18, 1999
Human Development 4
And Country Department 6
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at the time of approval)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
US$ 1.0 = Birr 2.07
US$ 0.48 = Birr 1.00
At the time of project completion mission
US$1.0  = Birr7.40
US$0.135  Birr 1.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAU           Addis Ababa University
CESD          Center for Education Staff Development
CHE           Commission on Higher Education
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
ESDP          Education Sector Development Program
FDRE          Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
ICR           implementation Completion Report
IDA           international Development Association
MOE           Ministry of Education
NETP          National Education and Training Policy
PPD           Planning and Projects Department.
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director: Oev Astra Meesook
Sector Manager: Arvil Van Adamns
Team Leader: Nicholas L. Bennett/Young H. Kimarc



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .........................................................................i
Part I: Implementation Assessment ..............................................................                                                1
Evaluation  of project design .........................................................................2
Implementation experience and results ........................................................................3
Actual costs, financing arrangements, and implementation timetables as compared to estimates .......7
Cost control ........             .................................................................7
Cost effectiveness .........................................................................7
Key factors that affected achievement ..........................................................................8
Bank and Borrower performance ..........................................................................9
Ranking of project outcome ......................................................................... 11
Sustainability ........................................................................                                                         11
Summary of findings, key lessons learned, and future operations ..........................                              ............................ 12
Part H: Statistical Annexes
Table 1A: Summary of Assessments* .........................................................................1
Table 1B: Summary of Assessments: Manpower Development ............................................................3
Table 1C: Summary of Assessments: Basic Education .........................................................................7
Table ID: Summary of Assessments: Capacity Building ......................................................................9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ........................................................................                                   11
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................................                                           12
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......................................... 12
Table SA: Project Costs .........................................................................                                              13
Table 5B: Project Costs .........................................................................                                              15
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................................                                   16
Table 7A: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................................                                19
Table 7B: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................................                                   20
Appendices
A. Implementation Completion Report AIDE-MEMOIRE ................................................................ 27
B. Borrower's Contributions to the ICR
C. MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit Number 1873 ET
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Seventh Education Project
in Ethiopia, for which credit 1873-ET in the amount of US$70 million equivalent was approved
on April 8, 1988 and became effective on July 13, 1988.
The credit was closed on September 30, 1998, following two 2-year extensions. During a
major restructuring in 1993, SDR 4.5 million was canceled, and at the end of the extended grace
period on March 31, 1999, a further SDR 4.3 million has been canceled. In total it is expected
that $62.8 million will be disbursed, and the last disbursement will take place during March
1999.
The ICR was prepared by Nicholas Bennett, (AFMET), assisted by Gebreselassie
Okubagzhi (AFMET), and consultants Jeanne Moulton and Richard Coppinger, and reviewed by
Arvil Van Adams, Sector Manager of AFTH4. The borrower provided comments that are
included as appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR took place during the a special completion mission in November-
December 1998. Initial work was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission of July
1998 and is also based on material in the project file. The borrower assisted in the preparation of
the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, providing constructive
comments on the draft ICR, preparing tables of data on the project's status at project closing, and
preparing its own ICR report (attached).



Evaluation Summary                                                      Page i of iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.  Project design. Initially approved in 1988, the Education VII project had three separate,
ambitious goals: to improve middle- and higher-level manpower training, to ensure the quality
and equity of the education system (primary, secondary, tertiary, and adult), and to strengthen the
Ministry of Education's capacity in administration and management.
2.   The project was restructured in 1993 into thirteen components (sometimes counted as
sixteen or more). The relationship between these components became even less coherent than
those of the initial design, as much of the rationale for the original project had disintegrated with
a new government's change in policies. Eight of the thirteen components dealt with
improvements-mostly to facilities-of a wide range of higher education institutions, with most
resources going to Alemaya University and Mekele College of Dryland Agriculture (US$12.9
and $5.7 million, respectively). The other six institutions received an approximate total of
US$8.27 million of civil works, goods, and services.
3.   The remaining five components were diffused to a broad range of activities to improve the
quality of instruction at the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels: curriculum development for
lower secondary schools; inservice training for primary school teachers; improvement of
instructional methods and quality of practical courses at higher secondary schools; improvement
of inspection services; sustainable provision of textbooks; preparation of instructional materials
for adult literacy; construction of the Gode Radio Station; updating the book stock in nine higher
education libraries; strengthening the new National Office of Examinations; continuing to
construct and rehabilitate primary and secondary schools, and developing professional capacity
of the Ministry's Planning and Extemal Relations Services, Project Management Office, and
Management and Training Services. Among these components, by far the largest was for
construction and rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools (US$15.9 million). The other
four components totaled US$4.28 million.
4.   Implementation. Under best of circumstances, the Education VII project would have
been a huge challenge for the Ministry of Education to implement, not only because of its
"Christmas tree" design but also because the Ministry's project management capacity was not
strong enough for such an undertaking-a fact that was recognized in early supervision missions.
5.   Yet circumstances were not the best. During the first years of the project, Ethiopia's civil
war intensified, effectively putting implementation on hold until the war ended in 1991 and a
transitional govemment took over. Following the war and the transition, a newly elected
government established new policies that profoundly affected the project's strategy. First, the
new govemment abandoned the central planning approach of its predecessor, the Derg. This
affected the project's manpower planning strategy, insofar as careers were no longer assigned by
government, and graduates of higher institutions could choose not to apply to posts for which
they had been trained. For example, in discussions with final year students of agricultural



Evaluation Summary                                                         Page ii of iv
colleges many reported deciding not to work in rural areas or even in agriculture. The
government's decision to give much more power to regional governments included the
decentralization of the delivery of social services (health and education). Thus, the resources
allocated by the project to national-level agencies in instructional services (curriculum and
materials development, textbook production, examination administration, and general
administrative and management functions at the primary and secondary levels) were not
effectively utilized, and for those in the regions with new authority, resources were still in short
supply. The new government also adopted a new National Education and Training Policy, which
developed new strategies designed to improve quality and equity thus negating some project
components.
6.  In the re-staffing that accompanied the change of govemment and policies, the Ministry
lost much of its institutional memory. And in the political turmoil that persisted at different
levels throughout the life of the project, other valuable resources were lost, totaling roughly
US$3.5 million, or more than 5 percent of the funds actually disbursed. These losses included
equipment and supplies stranded at the Assab port in Eritrea, due to the conflict that broke out in
1998 between that country and Ethiopia; computers at Mekele that were sent for repairs, and
vehicles taken from Alemaya University in 1995 for election-monitoring purposes both of which
are still not at the respective institutions. Perhaps the greatest loss was the 20 professional
educators sent abroad on graduate fellowships who did not return to Ethiopia.
7.   In spite of these severe handicaps, government officials, including those at the highest
levels, gave strong political support to the project when it resumed in 1993 and helped the
Ministry to resuscitate it. Yet the Ministry's capacity continued to be weak, and, coupled with
lapses in Bank supervision, led to a number of serious implementation problems. Although the
Ministry made a remarkable effort to catch up with seriously delayed disbursements, it had
difficulty managing these; as a result, the Bank had to allow two project extensions, each of two
years, and two grace periods, totaling six months, after the close of the project so that badly
needed funds could be disbursed.
8.   Other management problems arose. A computerized accounting system, introduced late in
the project, was never quite fashioned to be capable of managing all the data required to satisfy
contract follow-up activities. Procurement, which continued to be handled centrally, was
understaffed, resulting in delays in contracting and difficulties in paying contractors in a timely
manner. Procurement was often standardized, so that all primary schools received the same
number of desks, no matter how many were needed, and all higher education institutions
received similar designs of glass houses, regardless of what was suitable for the climate, and
similar packages of equipment, regardless of what staff felt they needed. In several instances,
minor disagreements took an inordinately long time to resolve; for example, the Bank and the
Ministry took a year to resolve the issue of whether to bid locally or internationally for school
furniture.
9.   Results. Design weaknesses and implementation problems resulted in a project that we
could only rate as "unsatisfactory" and one that has had a negligible sustainable impact on the
education sector, despite almost eleven years of implementation and US$62.8 million of Bank
resources, and substantial Government resources that went into it.



Evaluation Summary                                                        Page iii of iv
10. In terms of manpower development, the government has been unable to provide indicators
of the extent to which mid- and high-level manpower pools have grown in the areas targeted by
the project. Though enrollment and graduation rates rose at the agricultural colleges and at Addis
Ababa University, many graduates reported to be using their training merely as a stepping stone
into training opportunities in other sectors. And, at least at Mekele, enrollment may be rising
beyond the point at which the college can offer adequate facilities and programmatic resources to
its students. Finally, though the government entered into a covenant with the Bank to plan to
finance a regular maintenance program of higher education institutions, the program was never
submitted to the Bank for its consideration. The absence of such a program-and of any
significant maintenance at the higher education institutions visited-bodes poorly for the
endurance of newly constructed facilities.
11.  Though much time was lost during the war years, the Ministry made a gallant effort to
revitalize and complete its construction program for primary and secondary schools. Ninety-five
percent of planned construction and rehabilitation was completed. But problems surfaced. The
quality of construction was mixed, due largely to the shortage of engineers and technicians
available to supervise and a lack of appropriate incentives for the few that existed. Rehabilitation
was often inappropriate: instead of repairing existing buildings, regional governments usually
chose to build new ones from scratch. These were sometimes built of chika (wattle and daub), a
cheaper but less durable material than the prescribed hollow concrete blocks. The new school
designs included several ancillary structures (meeting rooms, pedagogical centers at primary
schools; laboratories, libraries, home economics centers at secondary schools) that were used
either simply as classrooms or not at all. Sometimes equipment for these special rooms was
never installed. Due to disagreements over procurement, furniture arrived very late in schools
and not always in the quantities required. Neither the central nor regional governments appear to
have maintenance programs for school buildings and furniture, and some new buildings are
already needing repair.
12.  The strategy for improving the quality and equity of education at the basic education level
and the changes brought on by decentralization and introduction of the New Education and
Training Policy of 1994 resulted in little, if any, improvements through the project in classroom
instruction. The instructional "software" components of the restructured project were directed at
central agencies, at the same time as decentralization moved these responsibilities to the regions.
Also, the Ministry and the Bank did not put sufficient effort into preparing concept papers and
work plans in order to make these new components effective at the classroom level. Community
participation in school construction and oversight did not happen, largely because the project's
sole strategy for involving adults in their children's schooling was to add adult literacy facilities
to schools, and not to mobilize communities in the management of their schools
13.  In neither higher education institutions nor primary and secondary schools were equity
targets met; though colleges did reduce intake requirements to encourage girls to enroll and stay
in school, no other strategy was devised to increase girls' attendance or improve their education.
Though female enrollment rates have been increasing, the gender gap has been widening.
14.  The capacity-building component of the project was not well defined. After the 1993
restructuring, it resulted in little more than some training of the accountants working on the
project and some furniture and supplies for the Center for Education Staff Development (CESD),
the part of the Ministry that managed projects and staff training. Nevertheless, the MOE had a



Evaluation Summary                                                         Page iv of iv
weak implementation capacity at the start of the project, an even weaker capacity at the time of
restructuring in 1993, and by project closing the capacity of the MOE in the newly reorganized
MOE structure was still the Achilles' heel of the ministry.
15.  Future efforts. In preparing for full implementation of the successor project to Education
VII, titled Education Sector Development Program (ESDP), Ministry and Bank officials are
taking into account the lessons learned from this project. This $100 million program is intended
to help the Ministry improve every level of the education system. Unlike the Education VII
project, none of the components are fixed in concrete, but are decided each year during an annual
review meeting. It is based on the government's comprehensive education plan and program,
which has been designed to be implemented through the decentralized education system in which
the authority and responsibilities of central and regional offices have been clearly delineated.
Regional education offices establish budgets for primary and secondary education that are
approved by regional administrative offices and assemblies, as well as the central Ministry and
the Bank, and funds are disbursed.by regional finance bureau, not the central offices of the
Ministry of Education. The central Ministry remains responsible for national policy and
standards at all levels, for negotiations with donors, and for budgets and their use at the tertiary
level. There still is a lack of awareness of the need for a stronger implementation capacity at the
central level in order to create the conditions necessary for regional empowerment.
16.  The school construction program, which is vastly larger than that of Education VII, has
benefited from the lessons learned during Education VII construction. The building design for
primary schools has been improved; the basic design will have variations suitable for the varying
climatic conditions and soils around the country. Smaller contracts with construction companies
for schools will be encouraged to facilitate supervision and use of time and resources.
17.  By empowering the regions to be responsible for both instruction and the administration of
schools, the government hopes to overcome the problems of centralized contracting and
procurement evident in Education VII. In addition, over-standardization will be minimized, as
regions will make more localized decisions with more direct input from schools. Most of the
support for instructional improvements from the World Bank and other international lenders and
donors will go directly to the regions, and capacity-building activities will not only focus on
building up the central Planning and Projects Department (PPD), but also at the regional and sub-
regional levels. Regional. offices will use simplified procurement and accounting procedures.
Regional offices will be guided to time the provision of different inputs more efficiently.



Implementation Completion Report                                        Page 1 of 15
IMPLEMENTATION COMIPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJ1ECT
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.  Introduction.  Prior to this project, the Bank has provided support to development of
education in Ethiopia through assisting six education projects. These began in 1966 and have
amounted to a total of US$152 million, growing from US$7.2 in the first project to US$67.3 in
the fourth. The projects have assisted in the expansion of primary, secondary, and higher
education, including university, vocational, agricultural, and teacher education. They have
emphasized education in rural areas, basic education, and science and math.
2.   Project Objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) of 1988 had three objectives:
* To improve middle and higher-level manpower training. The project's strategy was to
construct new buildings and to provide equipment, technical assistance, and professional
training (overseas fellowships) at five universities and colleges (Alemaya University, Asmara
University, Addis Ababa University, Jimma College of Agriculture, and Ambo College of
Agriculture) and to make minor improvements to facilities at several other institutions (Bahir
Dar Polytechnic, Gondar College of Medical Science, and teacher training institutes).
* To ensure the quality and equity of the education system. The strategy was to construct and
rehabilitate primary and secondary schools, to improve science and math curricula and
teaching at the secondary level, to provide new books to university and college libraries, and
to establish a renewable supply of supplementary textbooks and reference materials through a
Textbook Revolving Fund.
* To strengthen administration and management. The strategy was to improve the capacity of
staff at the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Commission on Higher Education (CHE)
through professional training, and support for managing the Education VII project.
3.   Within two years of the project's inception, civil war intensified in Ethiopia. When peace
was restored in 1991, a new transitional Government of the Federal Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia (FDRE) took power. Eritrea, which housed Asmara University (one of the project's



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 2 of 15
larger components), became independent of Ethiopia. Between 1991 and 1995, when elections
were held in Ethiopia, a transitional government was in place.
4.   In 1993, the transitional government and the Bank restructured the Education VII project
to align it more with Ethiopia's new jurisdiction and policies. Though the objectives of the
project did not change, some major activities were redefined, and others were altered to fit into
the reconstituted Ministry of Education. Facilities for engineering training, which were to have
been built at Asmara University, were dropped, giving the project a clearer focus on agricultural
and forestry training. The dryland agriculture activity was moved from Asmara University to the
new Mekele College for Dryland Agriculture.
5.   The restructured project had 13 components (some of which were further subdivided, so
that the count is sometimes given as 16 components). The first four components comprised the
major improvements to higher education agricultural institutions: Mekele, Alemaya, Jimma, and
Ambo. The next four involved relatively minor improvements to two programs at Addis Ababa
University (the Short Cycle Graduate Program and Post Graduate Studies), improvements to
facilities at four other third-level institutions (Bahir Dar, Gondar, Assella, and Kotebe), and
inservice training of primary teachers.
6.   While each of the first eight components related to a particular higher education institution
or set of institutions, the remaining five components had more diffuse targets, both in terms of
the number of institutional beneficiaries and the level of the institutions.
*  Component 9, instructional materials, included curriculum development for lower secondary
schools; improvement of instructional methods and of practical courses for higher secondary
schools; improvement of inspections services; sustainable provision of textbooks;
instructional materials for adult literacy; and the construction of the Gode Radio Station for
adult literacy program purposes.
*  Component 10 dealt with the upgrading and updating of the book stock in the libraries of
about nine higher education institutes.
*  Component 11 was designed to strengthen the newly created National Office of
Examinations.
*  Component 12 was to construct and rehabilitate primary and lower secondary schools.
*  Component 13 was to develop professional capacity of the Ministry's Planning and Extemal
Relations Services, the Project Management Office, and Management and Training Services.
EVALUATION OF PROJECT DESIGN
7.   Faults in the project design plagued its implementation throughout its entire history. The
project was too ambitious, in terns of its wide-ranging goals and the expectations of the Ministry
during implementation. The initial project design (1987) suffered from being too diffuse,
encompassing every level of education (higher, secondary, primary, adult), every geographic
area of the country, and a broad range of functions (construction, equipping, and furnishing of



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 3 of 15
schools, curriculum, materials, teacher training, managemient, and professional training). The
restructured project design (1993) exacerbated the dislocation of diverse and separate project
activities. Components 9 through 13 of the restructured project, while all relevant to improving
the quality of education, were at the same time quite discrete and not clearly related to each other
or to any strategic goal. Moreover, they were labeled "developmental," because concept papers
and work plans had to be agreed upon by the Ministry and the Bank before they could be
implemented. As discussed in the subsequent sub-section ("Improving quality and equity"),
viable plans for most of these components never materialized.
8.  In addition, it was clear from early on that the project's ambition went beyond the
Ministry's capacity to implement. While the civil war and the transition to a new government
predominated as impediments to implementation in the early years, the inadequacy of managerial
capacity was even evident in the first months of the project (see Table 7b for comments of
supervision missions).
9.    Finally, the project's objective of increasing trained manpower-and of building the
institutions needed for this training-was based on the assumption that the government centrally
planned and managed its labor market. The Derg government of a decade ago was accustomed to
planning centrally manpower requirements and ensure the full employment of all graduates and
diplomats, whether needed or not, while the new government's policies were much more those of
the free market. Thus, with the advent of the FDRE, the direct link between training individuals
for certain jobs and ensuring that they were employed in these jobs had been broken.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
10. Several key project targets were met, including major physical improvements to higher
education institutions, increased numbers of enrollment and pass rates at those institutions, and
construction and rehabilitation of 95 percent of that planned for primary and secondary schools.
Nevertheless, as a result of faulty design, weak implementation capacity of the Ministry, and a
series of dramatic external events, including civil war, change in government, and
decentralization of the delivery of social services, a significant amount of planned project
resources did not reach the initially intended beneficiaries-schools, communities, and students.
11. Increasing the supply of qualified manpower. Although enrollment and graduation rates
improved at the agricultural colleges, other objectives were not achieved. The majority of faculty
and staff at Alemaya University sent abroad did not return, the arrival of equipment was often
badly timed, and some has not yet been put to use, either because power sources are not available
or it has not yet been installed. Thus, the overall effectiveness of project inputs in increasing the
supply of qualified manpower is questionable.
12.  The project did achieve its objective of enrolling and graduating more students from the
five universities and colleges than initially planned. In mid-1998, all five institutions reported
enrollment rates in excess of the original targets. In addition both Alemaya Faculty of Forestry



Implementation Completion Report                                                    Page 4 of 15
and Mekele College reported considerably more graduates and a higher rate of graduation than
planned. The ICR teams were not able to evaluate achievements in other colleges as input are
just now being completed. None of the colleges, however, met the target of 25 percent female
enrollments; with actual counts ranging from about 10 to 20 percent.
13.  The project largely failed in its aim to strengthen the skills of faculty and staff at some of
these institutions. It sent 43 faculty and staff abroad on fellowships (including some Ministry
staff); of these, only 23 have returned to their positions. Alemaya University was particularly
hard hit, with only three masters degree holders returning from 17 fellows sent out. Thus, the
impact of longer-term overseas training was much less than anticipated.
14.  Five institutions of higher education  received new  buildings, equipment, vehicles,
furniture, books, technical assistance for research and teaching, and fellowships abroad.
Construction of new facilities, though significantly delayed, was substantially completed. Major
civil works were executed at four institutions of higher education. 1 All equipment, vehicles,
furniture and books, with the exception of one tractor for Alemaya, have been delivered. Four
additional higher education institutions received some assistance. Bahir Dar Polytechnic and
Gondar College of Medical Science had kitchen facilities remodeled and equipped; Assella
Teacher Training Institute and Kotebe College had new rooms built for training science teachers.
15. The timing of the deliveries of furniture and equipment was not well managed; furniture
arrived well before construction was completed at Mekele, while at other sites, some furniture
and equipment has only recently arrived. Most equipment has been installed, with the exception
of laboratory equipment at Mekele University College and Ambo Agricultural College.
Specifications for equipment did not vary much from site to site, and college officials observed
that they were not sufficiently consulted during implementation about the suitability of building
plans and equipment. Kitchen equipment, for instance, was standardized, though it appears that
such equipment was not suitable and is not being used in at least one institution. At Ambo
College, laboratory equipment has remained packed in its boxes and unused for over nine
months, whilst that at Mekele could not be used because of inadequate power supply for the
whole campus. Although each institution was asked to select books for its library, eventually,
that selection was standardized for all schools. A planned Textbook Revolving Fund had
collapsed by mid-1995, so that school libraries were left without a continuing source of funds for
new books. The fund was targeted toward establishing the commercial sale of supplementary
texts and reference books.  But the funds spent failed to revolve; losses resulted from
inappropriate pricing and accumulation of excessive unsold stock.
' The value of work executed was as follows: Alemaya UA, US $6.6 M; Mekele College, US $ 2.7 M; Jinmna College, US $ 1.8
M; Ambo College, US $ 1.7 M. The design and layout of these higher level facilities were generally satisfactory and
appropriate. However, at Mekele the garage, workshop and mnachine shed (one building) was considered to be badly designed.
It was constructed with an oversize concrete frame, a light roof which is very high, has no side walls and inadequate workshop
and storage space. At Ambo there are signs of foundation failure in two of the buildings and the sewage system in one dormitory
is not operational.



Implementation Completion Report                                         Page 5 of 15
16.   Only four institutions received technical assistance:  Alemaya University through a
twinning arrangement with the University of Oklahoma, and Mekele College through a similar
arrangement with the University of Wales. Ambo and Jimma Agricultural Colleges received
technical assistance from a consultant in materials development. According to school officials,
the results of these assistance was mixed.
17. The effect of these inputs on teaching and learning is difficult to determine. Mekele
College developed a new model of higher education that includes as an integral part of the
program four months of field internship. In addition, 36 program modules were developed. The
enhancement of facilities with equipped laboratories appears to have led to more practical
training at some, but not all, institutions.
18.  The effect of the project on increasing manpower in the agriculture sector was also
dubious. For example, at Ambo College, many students came from urban areas and reported to
the mission that they had no interest in taking an assignment as an agriculture extension agent in
a rural area.
19. Improving quality and equity of primary and secondary education. The primary and
secondary education system was improved by the addition of new primary schools and
rehabilitated classrooms and ancillary facilities in rural areas. The selection of sites did not
follow the criteria aimed at in the project design; namely in communities of low economic
development or rural areas where remote access or inadequate organization make full community
participation impractical, and where primary school participation rates are below the national
average. The quality of construction varied. As with the higher education institutes, resources
were often not used efficiently. Most important, the project failed to infuse the primary and
secondary schools with improvements to the instructional system (curricula, textbooks, teacher
training, and testing). Except for providing better access to schools by making more places
available, the project did not take any notable measures to improve equity, and the gender gap
for girls continued to widen at all levels of education.
20. Most implementation activity revolved around civil works and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. The target for the construction of primary schools was reduced from
125 to 111, of which 108 were actually built. All of the ten planned lower secondary schools
were built. The designs and layouts were generally satisfactory and appropriate. The reinforced
concrete frame and hollow concrete block buildings erected are simple to construct and generally
durable. In some places chika (wattle and daub) buildings were constructed; although less
expensive to erect, their life span is considerably shorter and the amount of maintenance required
higher. Often there was more built than needed in rural areas due to the recent decision that
schools will move from a full-day to a half-day system. Thus, class rooms were being used for
less than half of the available time. Teachers at schools with half-day sessions are also teaching
less time than planned.



Implementation Completion Report                                                      Page 6 of 15
21.  It was originally planned to rehabilitate 240 primary schools; this target was reduced to
182 schools, of which 168 were actually rehabilitated. All of the 30 originally planned
secondary schools were rehabilitated. In many regions and zones, the local authorities did not
have the technical capacity to plan and supervise the rehabilitation of existing buildings; instead
new buildings were constructed.
22. All schools received furniture (100 desks and 7 other standardized items), though not all
furniture has reached schools. The quality of furniture is good. Secondary schools received lab
equipment, though the ICR team's sample check failed to find any installed or used. Likewise,
ancillary facilities (workshops, home economics rooms, laboratories, libraries, pedagogical
centers) appear not to be always used for the purposes intended.
23.  The restructured project was intended to boost support to basic education by providing
resources to various aspects of the instructional system, including examinations (through the new
National Organization of Examination, textbook development (at the Institute for Curriculum
Research and Development,) textbook publishing (at the Educational Materials Production and
Distribution Agency), and professional staff training of Ministry personnel at the Center for
Education Staff Development. But these components were put on hold until the New Education
and Training Policy was presented in 1994 and, at that time, amounted to little more than
procurement of a few computers and/or other equipment.2  Funds that had been allocated to
improving the supply of textbooks went instead to purchasing paper needed for the immediate
production of new primary school textbooks.
24.  Capacity  building.    This  objective  was  sometimes  more  precisely  defined  as
''strengthened planning and management capacity of the Ministry," and an almost entire lack of
progress in this component has led both to problems in the implementation of this project, and to
potential difficulties in the implementation of ESDP. In some key areas, capacity weakened
during the project. Early on, during the implementation of the project, there were three
procurement experts and a special procurement secretary. However, by the end of the project,
there was only one procurement expert and the secretary. Nothing substantial was provided in
the way of professional training and equipment for Ministry staff. Inputs for achieving this
objective were limited in the restructured project to short-term training of some staff in the PPD
of the Ministry for the primary purpose of managing the Education VII project. The planning
and management capacity of the Ministry was weakened during the project by significant
downsizing which accompanied decentralization, and which the project's capacity-building
strategy, even in the restructured project, did not accommodate.
2 The Center for Education Staff Development (CESD) received new furniture and equipment from project funds. For the
preparation of grades 9-12 syllabi and textbooks in math and science (biology, chemistry, physics), the Institute for Curriculum
Research and Development received six computers, a photocopier, four printers, relevant reference materials for the expert
development teams and for the library; the project also covered the expenses of workshops at which both existing and new math
and science materials were evaluated, and staff training in computer use. For the Educational Materials Production and
Distribution Agency (EMPDA), the project constructed a warehouse and purchased paper for printing textbooks.



Implementation Completion Report                                       Page 7 of 15
ACTUAL COSTS, FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS, AND IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLES AS
COMPARED TO ESTIMATES
25.  The project experienced significant delays, some cost overruns, and some inefficiencies in
the management of construction. The main causes of slow disbursements (in addition to the war)
included an over-centralized procurement system, difficulty in contracting for civil works
activities within the available budgets, and a lack of adherence to normal procedures in fumiture
procurement. Inflation of costs during and immediately after the civil war necessitated a
reduction in the number of primary schools to be constructed and rehabilitated.
26.  Programming and timing The entire project had a history of critical delays in
disbursements. Due to the civil war and establishment of a new government, the Ministry was
granted two two-year extensions of the project (November 1993 and June 1996). Between 1989
and 1993, the level of disbursements was extremely low, reaching a cumulative total of 9.1
percent of planned in 1993. In 1994 it jumped to 22.3 percent of planned disbursements, and in
1995 to 40.17 percent disbursement (see Table 4). Though there were time overruns on most
contracts, these were generally not excessive. The notable delay in the award of contracts was
for Mekele College, where large-scale construction did not start until 1996.
COST CONTROL
27.  The cost of the project anticipated in 1988 in the SAR was US$95.2. Of this $70 million
was to be financed by IDA. This figure was adjusted to $88 million in 1993 during restructuring
with the cancellation of SDR 4.5 million ($6.3 million). As of the extended date of closing,
September 30, 1998, the project had disbursed 82.8 percent of IDA funds. The Ministry was
given a four-month grace period, until January 30, 1999, to disburse up to US$5 million. That
grace period was later extended an additional two months, until March 31. Final information is
not available on total Govemment expenditures. However from the IDA account, out of an
original $70 million, there has been an exchange gain of $5 million, disbursements $62.8
million, and two cancellations one of $6.3 million in 1993 and a second on closing of the grace
period of $5.9 million.
28.  Only two significant cost overruns were noted on most of the project items (see Tables 5a
and 5b). At Mekele University College there was a 28 percent overrun with the civil works
budget. This was due to general under-measurement of the quantities in the original bill,
particularly in relation to the site works. At Ambo College there was a cost overrun of 23
percent, comprised largely of price escalation.
COST EFFECTIVENESS
29. An over-centralized procurement system reduced cost-effectiveness. The payments due to
contractors for the institutes of higher education were paid in Addis. Since these contractors were
either based in Addis or had offices in the capital, this system did not cause undue problems.



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 8 of 15
The payment for the construction of basic education facilities in the regions was different: the 15
percent counterpart contribution was paid by the region, with the 85 percent financed through the
credit paid in Addis. For the contractors based in the regions, this not only caused great
inconvenience, but, in addition, these centralized payment procedures added substantially to
contract costs of basic education, and to the time taken to complete these facilities.
30.  There were other incidents of poor cost effectiveness. A spot check revealed expensive yet
ineffective fencing was provided at one school. Similarly, several classrooms at secondary
schools had been constructed with electrical and plumbing installations but no main power and
water supply in the foreseeable future. Some classrooms also had power connected but did not
run night classes or use the power points. At Ambo college, expensive kitchen equipment was
not being used, the preference being for more traditional "fire kitchens." The pit latrines at most
schools were expensive permanent structures of reinforced contract frame and hollow concrete
block. A simpler, cheaper, type of structure that can be moved and erected when the pit fills up
would have been more appropriate.
KEY FACTORS THAT AFFECTED ACHIEVEMENT
31. Decentralization. The new FDRE decentralized the governance and management of social
services, including primary and secondary education, to the regions.  Regional Education
Bureaus became responsible for contracting for construction and rehabilitation of schools. In the
transition to this new administrative arrangement, coordination and liaison between the central
offices of the Ministry, the regions, the zones, and the beneficiaries of the civil works was often
weak. There were difficulties in communications between the center and the periphery and
frequent changes in personnel. In several instances, simple problems took a long time to resolve.
Even in the final months of the project, there seemed to be a reticence on the part of the regions
to act autonomously, as the legacy of working in a centralized system remained.
32. Education policy changes. The new government also introduced significant policy
changes in 1994 with its National Education and Training Policy (NETP). With the intent of
supporting these new policies, the project put on-hold its inputs to the instructional systems of
basic education (curricula and materials, in-service teacher training, examination reform, and
adult education). Communication between the Bank and Ministry staff over the purpose and
nature of these inputs was fractured, therefore, resulting in minor, scattered inputs that had no
significant effect on schools, at least during the life of the project. In addition other policy areas
were poorly designed from the outset, such as the textbook revolving fund. Given the fact that it
was designed for supplementary materials, it was unlikely that it could have ever revolved.
33.  Loss of fellows. A high portion (20 of 43) of individuals given fellowships abroad during
the early years of the project did not return to Ethiopia, setting back significantly the
strengthening of programs at tertiary-level institutions.



Implementation Completion Report                                           Page 9 of 15
34.  Construction contracts. This was one of the two areas where there was significant
disagreement on the procedures to be followed. During the first seven years of the project there
was no construction of new primary schools. On the one hand, the Bank was proposing bids
that were large enough to attract large contractors from Addis, or even from outside the country,
whilst the Government wanted to continue with the old force account system. The Ministry and
the Bank took a long time to reach agreement on how to contract for construction. Eventually,
the Ministry agreed to flexibility in force contracts, and the Bank agreed not to require large
packaging of schools in single contracts. In some regions where construction of new schools and
rehabilitation was grouped in large packages (over 15 schools), the expected benefits of
economies of scale were lost, as the main contractors usually subcontracted. Thus, large
packages covering widespread geographical areas lost the benefit of scale and also tended to
exclude small local contractors.3
35.  Furniture contracts.  More than a year was lost due to disagreements over the
procurement and evaluation methods to be used in purchasing large quantities of school
furniture. Furniture contracts were still being signed two months before project closing.
36.  Poor contract management. Imported goods were sometimes of very poor quality, and
inappropriately packaged for rapid distribution to beneficiary institutions. Specifications were
sometimes insufficiently detailed, and goods were rarely if ever rejected even if found to be
nearly useless.
37.  Losses of equipment and manpower. These losses, together with the loss of manpower
from fellows (largely from Alemaya) who did not return to Ethiopia, total an estimated US$3.5
million, or more than 5 percent of the funds actually disbursed.
BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.  Considering the long delay caused by the civil war, project implementation after 1993
went passably well. Particularly during the past two years, the Ministry's project manager and
the Bank's task manager made an outstanding effort to utilize resources and to disburse funds
efficiently. They formed a strong partnership to salvage a poorly design project hard hit by
external events.
39.  Although both the Bank and the Borrower persevered and demonstrated flexibility and
cooperation during years of turmoil and change, both parties contributed to some of the problems
experienced by the project. There were disagreements between the Government and the Bank
over the procurement methods to be used for construction of schools , and of furniture , both
which caused considerable delays.
3With large packages there is also the risk of poor performance of a contractor affecting a large nunber of units.



Implementation Completion Report                                        Page 10 of 15
40. Bank. The Education VII SAR cites six "lessons learned from experience in
implementation of earlier Bank-supported education projects in Ethiopia: (a) the importance of
combining the supply of new facilities with support to educational quality, particularly through
related teacher training and the provision of instructional materials, (b) the essential role of an
effective system of building and equipment maintenance, (c ) the need to design projects with
flexibility in the details of implementation in order to respond effectively to contingencies as
they arise, (d) the essential role of management of the education system and the need to support
its development on a continuing basis, (e) the importance of thorough project preparation and
strong project implementation, and (f) the difficulties in implementation and supervision of
multifaceted projects requiring the cooperation of several implementing agencies" (pp. 14-15).
The fact that all of these problems persisted in both the design and implementation of Education
VII indicates that the Bank did not, after all, leam from its own experience.
41.  The turnover in supervision during the ten-year project period was not excessive, but the
number of different interlocutors was (there were three task managers and a further three mission
leaders). The time period between supervision missions was sometimes as long as twelve
months, and many times it was six to eight months, even after the new government was stable
(see Table 7B). These changes and lapses resulted in inconsistencies and fluctuations in ratings
by supervision missions and a lack of tenacity in dealing with noted problems. In addition, as
mentioned above, on occasions when the Bank and the Borrower did not agree, problem
resolution took an inordinately long time. The most striking instance is the one-year delay in bids
for furniture, due to a disagreement about procedures. Also, negotiations on "developmental"
activities dragged on until they became hurried and unfocused.
42.  Borrower. Through no fault of their own, Ministry of Education staff experienced much
turnover during the war and transition years, resulting in loss of data and of knowledge and
understanding of the project's intent and procedures. Yet officials of the new government,
including the prime minister and other high-ranking politicians, made a concerted effort to
support the Ministry of Education in revitalizing the moribund project and putting to good use
the scarce resources available
43.  The Ministry did not always have the capacity to disburse funds as planned, especially in
the early years of the project. Throughout the project, procurement procedures did not always
comply with World Bank; guidelines. Instances were noted where negotiated discounts were
agreed with contractors, where there were disagreements between MOE and Regions over
furniture procurement, and where MOE staff were reluctant to follow the procurement
procedures outlined in the DCA. Shortly after the project was restructured, there were three
procurement officers working full time on the project. No attempt was made to replace them as
they departed. More recently. The Ministry decided to have a new computerized accounting
system custom designed, rather than purchase one of the many available off-the-shelf programs.
Despite training of staff in the new system it did not provide the information expected. It could



Implementation Completion Report                                                     Page 11 of 15
not provide up-to-date contract and outstanding disbursement information and it could not
provide outstanding commitment information. It was partly due to this customized system that it
proved necessary to have two grace periods totaling six months, compared with the standard
four.
44.  Most serious was the fact that there was sometimes a refusal to accept that capacity
weaknesses (particularly in the PPD) were severely impeding implementation. In addition there
was rarely any attempt during implementation to collect and analyze the performance indicators
in the original SAR
45.  At the regional level, records of routine site correspondence, variation orders, site
meetings, and so on, were often not available at the institutions visited by the ICR mission.
Supervision at the primary and secondary education facilities was weak, and this manifested
itself in poor-quality workmanship.4
46.  The four main higher education institutions had full-time resident engineers on site and the
quality of workmanship was generally acceptable. The notable exception however was Ambo
Agricultural College, where possible design errors in the foundation, very poor workmanship in
the building perimeter paving, and poor building finishes were not corrected. Similarly errors in
the design and construction of the sewage system were not corrected and the installation of the
cold room equipment was not completed.
RANKING OF PROJECT OUTCOME
47.  Over the course of the project, ratings by supervision missions for development objective
achievement fluctuated between "highly satisfactory" and "unsatisfactory," with "satisfactory"
being the most frequent rating. The final assessment of outcome is "unsatisfactory" based on
ratings in each of the three project objectives: manpower development, quality and equity of
education, and capacity-building. The overall impact of the project on the education sector has
been negligible. Given the extended time period (ten and a half years) and high cost (US$62.8
million) of the project, the results are judged to be less than satisfactory.
SUSTAINABILITY
48.  The project led to six conditions that are likely to endure as contributions to the
development of the education sector and broader social and economic improvements:
4The quality of ironmongery on windows and doors on almost all units visited was of inferior quality and in many cases already
broken. The quality of windows and doors particularly in the rural basic education facilities was poor. It was generally noted that
steel windows and doors were more robust and durable and the quality of a higher standard than windows of other materials. The
basic structures of the hollow concrete school buildings were sound but the building finishes were poor particularly in the more
remote locations. The quality of floor screeds was generally poor. The workmanship on the gumpole roof trusses at the schools
was sometimes poor as was the application of anti-termite treatment. The plumbing and sanitary fittings used at the institutes of
higher education were of poor quality (cisterns, shower pipes, flushing units, taps etc.).



Implementation Completion Report                                        Page 12 of 15
* An increased supply of manpower in the agriculture and forestry sectors
* An estimated 25,000 more children in primary and secondary schools, and more textbooks
and equipment in these schools
* A new model of higher education at Mekele that includes as an integral part of the program
four months of field internship
* New textbooks for grade 9 mathematics
* An improved building design of primary schools
* Simplified procurement and accounting procedures to be used under the subsequent
Education Sector Development Project.
49.  Sustainability will be limited, however, by several shortcomings of the project. The
software components of improvement to basic education did not get fully implemented, resulting
in resources only trickling to schools. The poor quality workmanship in construction and lack of
maintenance will shorten the life of new facilities; and newly built facilities other than
classrooms (workshops, labs, and so on) seem not to be used for the purposes intended. Finally,
the small number of primary and secondary classrooms added had little impact on the large
growth in enrollment and demand for education at these levels. Sustainability will only be
minimal.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, KEY LESSONS LEARNED, AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
50.  Altogether, the project will have a limited impact because of the wide dispersion of inputs
and activities in its original design across all regions and at many levels of the education system,
from literacy to Ph.D. training. According to school officials interviewed by the World Bank
team, implementation also suffered because staff at higher education institutions and secondary
schools were not sufficiently involved in implementation decisions, and they did not think that
this was their project. Implementation became more difficult where the number of implementing
agencies was larger: there were more failures and delays at the primary and secondary school
levels than at higher institutions. At all levels, simple problems often took an extraordinarily long
time to resolve. Because of the flaws in design and a number of external events, there was four
years of extension to a project initially planned to be implemented in six years, the performance
of the project can be classified, at best, as only marginally satisfactory.
Key Lessons Learned from the Concluding Project are Summarized Here:
51.  Contracting, procurement, supervision
Some civil works were not sufficiently supervised because of the same shortage of
engineers and technicians with adequate transportation and incentives. This resulted in
lower-quality work. In the ESDP project, the regions and zones, and to some extent,
the central offices of the Ministry need to build up their capacity to supervise
construction effectively. Additional suitably qualified personnel and transport are
required. This will have a direct effect on the quality of construction and therefore the
life span of the buildings.



Implementation Completion Report                                          Page 13 of 15
*  In Amhara, large contract packages became inefficient when they covered widespread
geographic areas, as the main contractor usually sub-contracted, thus losing economies
of scale. Large packages also exclude small local contractors, and when a contractor
with a large package performs poorly, many schools are affected. Some contracts were
awarded in packages that were too large. Smaller packages of four to five schools
awarded on a geographical basis would be more effective and give local contractors an
opportunity to compete.
*  Paying contractors from the central Ministry office rather than from regional bureaus
delayed construction and increased costs. If effective procedures are introduced to
enable payments to be made at regional and zonal level, less time will be needed and
therefore cost savings will be realized.
*  Much time was lost over disagreements and misunderstandings about procedures. The
regions need to be made fully aware of the World Bank procurement procedures.
Training courses may be necessary for regional staff to facilitate the award of contracts
at regional level.
*  Insufficient coordination of inputs resulted in poor use of resources. More attention
needs to be paid to the programming and timing of activities related to the civil works.
This applies to the provision of furniture, water supplies, textbooks, teachers, etc.
*  Some rehabilitation measures were ill-planned. The cost-effectiveness of providing
fencing, electrical installations and plumbing has to be evaluated before civil works
contracts are awarded.
52.  Construction
*  In the rehabilitation of schools in the five regions visited, regional bureau staff almost
always opted to construct new blocks (often in chika) rather than repair existing ones.
This was largely due to shortage of engineers who could make assessments and draw
up customized rehabilitation plans. Under ESDP much greater attention needs to be
devoted to the repair and rehabilitation of existing facilities.
*  Appropriate, economical, robust designs using locally available materials should be
developed for the following commonly used building components to avoid the use of
poor materials and bad workmanship: windows and doors (steel, windows with small
window panes); ironmongery for windows and doors; roof trusses (steel).
* Particular attention needs to be paid to the construction of concrete floors and floor
screeds to ensure they are durable.



Implementation Completion Report                                         Page 14 of 15
53.  Use of facilities and equipment
* The new primary and secondary school facilities visited that were constructed with
project resources are under-utilized because they were planned on the basis of full-day
sessions, while many schools have recently moved to half-day sessions. Careful
consideration should be given at the planning stages regarding the requirements for new
buildings and the space allocations within them to avoid under-utilization. In addition,
adjustments are needed in teachers' workload to accommodate half-day teaching in
order to maintain the 30 periods per week that each primary teacher is expected to
teach.
. Ancillary facilities (laboratories, pedagogical centers, libraries, etc.) in the schools
visited are rarely used for the purpose for which they have been constructed.
54.  Decentralization
*  For decentralization to be effective the regions must be allowed and prepared to act
autonomously and overcome the legacy of working under a centralized system. Many
regions do not yet appear to be aware of the full implications of decentralization.
*  There is still a wide gap between instructional resources available at schools and the
Ministry's efforts to increase those resources through improvements in teacher
training, curriculum, textbooks, examinations, and management.
55.  Equity goals: Measures taken to meet equity targets were clearly inadequate. Far grater
attention is needed here under ESDP.
56.  Participation of beneficiaries: Few communities appear to have participated in the
construction or rehabilitation of schools. Community participation needs to be encouraged to
foster a sense of ownership and responsibility for schools.
There may have been inadequate consultation of personnel from beneficiary institutions during
implementation. The perception at some institutions is that they were not consulted during
implementation, which resulted in buildings, equipment not being what was really needed or
even likely to be used.
57.  Sustainability
* Expansion of and improvements to the higher education institutions has resulted in a
high rate of staff and faculty utilization and hence improved efficiency. Yet,
enrollment at some of these institutions is expanding too rapidly, with a risk of
reducing quality.



Implementation Completion Report                                         Page 15 of 15
In spite of plans and covenants for building maintenance, there are no signs of any
routine maintenance of existing or new primary and secondary schools. Preventive
maintenance needs to be introduced and enforced at all levels in the system.
58.  Some generic suggestions
*  in future assure that all projects have a simple design, and if at all possible are one
theme project
*  avoid all Christmas tree projects. which in addition to the main themes have small
components responding to Bank or Government general concerns.
*  always concentrate on building up capacity early on in a project
*  do not extend the life of any project more than two years, thus avoiding having to
implement projects initially developed in a different socio political economic situation.
-  do not try to develop custom project accounting packages. Purchase a tested off the
shelf package from the many that exist.
- ensure that all projects have an adequate number of well qualified accounting staff.
- follow up the recommendations of the auditor.
- continuously recruit and train procurement specialists so that there is a stock prepared
who can be allocated to weaker regions if necessary.
- take immediate and strong action if suppliers do not meet the specification.
arrange goods to be packaged by the suppliers for the ultimate beneficiaries, thus
avoiding any repackaging.
59. Plans for future project operations. The Education Sector Development Program
(ESDP), which follows Education VII, is already effective. This $100 million program is
intended to help the Ministry improve every level of the education system. It has been designed
with great flexibility and to be implemented through a decentralized education system; regional
education offices establish budgets and get disbursements for primary and secondary education
from regional administrative centers, not the central offices of the Ministry of education. The
central Ministry, however, remains responsible for national policy and standards at all levels and
for budgets and spending at the tertiary level. Implementation continues (as in Education 7 to be
hampered by capacity weaknesses at all levels).



Statistics Annexes                                                     Page 1 of 30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit Number 1873 ET
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE IA: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS*
A. Achievement of        Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
objectives
Macro policies                                                        X
Sector policies                          X
Financial objectives                     X
Institutional development                              X
Physical objectives          X
Poverty reduction                                      X
Gender issues                            X
Other social objectives                                               x
Environmental objectives                                              X
Public sector management                               X
Private sector development                                            X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability  Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance       Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly
* 0       ti;0:;;00 0 f 0 ;satisfactory                     unsatisfictory
Identification                                                        X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                              X
Supervision                              x



Statistics Annexes                                                          Page 2 of 30
Table IA: Summary of Assessments* (Continued)
).. Br                :  --g Y       Satisfactory  Unsatisfact 
.;fomac         .    atisfactory                              u.            -. ......,nsatisfctor,
Preparation                                              X
Implementation                            X
Covenant compliance                                     X
Operation (if applicable)                               X
E. Assessment of           Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory     Highly
outcome             satisfactory                              unsatisfactory
x
*Table 1 is based on the design of the revised project (1993), not the original DCA (1988).



Statistics Annexes                                                     Page 3 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VIl Project
TABLE 1B: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
A. Achievement of         Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
Objectives
Macro policies                                                         X
Sector policies                                         x
Financial objectives                                    X
Institutional development                 X
Physical objectives           X
Poverty reduction                                                      X
Gender issues                                           X
Other social objectives                                                X
Environmental objectives                  x
Public sector management                                               X
Private sector development                                             x
Other (specify)          _
B. Project Sustainability   Likely     Unlikely     Uncertain
x
C. Assessment of outcome    Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                            unsatisfactory
x



Statistics Annexes                                                                                                              Page 4 of 30
Component  Description (DCA)    Achievements and outstanding issues                                                             Rating*
Manpower  Mekele College           The college was established in 1994/95, and enrollment reached 282 in 1996/97 (32 females).   HS
development                         Twinning with the University of Wales provided technical assistance; all tasks were completed.
All II staff sent abroad on fellowships have returned. Construction was substantially completed
including staff housing, 3 dormitories, offices and stores, glass and screen houses, miscellaneous
workshops, a garage workshop, a machine shed, a com- ter center, drawving offices, laboratory
building, roads, sports fields and an amphitheater. The design of the units is generally good, with
the exception of the garage workshop and machine shed, a unit which is not economical or
functional. Workmanship is generally good. All furniture and equipment has been delivered. The
connection of mains power has delayed the testing of some items of equipment delaying final
payment.
Alemaya University    A faculty of Forestry opened in 1989/90 with 30 students; it has produced about 30 graduates a  S
of Agriculture        year since 1993/94. Staff apartments, dormitories, recreation houses, a garage, glass and screen
houses were constructed. Most equipment has arrived and been assembled; the rest will arrive
soon. 10 vehicles and an ambulance have arrived; a tractor was short-landed and has not arrived.
Technical assistance from Oklahoma State University has been successfully completed (101 of
108 person months). Of 27 fellows sent abroad for training, 21 did not return, and I of the 6
returnees did not complete his studies.
Jimma Agricultural    Enrollment reached 500 in 1998/99 (106 women), and the portion of graduates per enrollees has  HS
College               increased 25%, reaching 186 in 1996/97. Construction of buildings is complete and generally
satisfactory: field store, fertilizer store, hay shed, cafeteria, kitchen, men's dormitory, laboratory
complex, lecture hall, glass house, and asphalt roads. The glass house design is not suited to the
warm and humid climate so cannot be used without alterations; electrical equipment in the general
lab is not working. Cabinets in another lab are poorly constructed (drawers don't open). The
wood/metal workshop is not yet wired for electricity; staff housing is also not appropriate for the
climate, with low ceilings. The auditorium had a major leak, which the college has tried to repair;
the AV room is not functioning (general wiring and plumbing problems). Furniture, equipment,
and most books have been delivered and are in use.
The ratings focus narrowly on the implementation of specific activities, and less on the sustainability. Sustainability is discussed in the body of this report.



Statistics Annexes                                                                                                    Page 5 of 30
Component Description (DCA)        Achievements and outstanding issues                                                 Rating
Ambo Agricultural     Enrollment has more than doubled since 1994/95, reaching 485 (130 women); the proportion of
College               graduates per enrollees has about doubled, reaching 86%. A silage pit, field store, fertilizer store,    us
hay shed, cafeteria, kitchen, men's dormitory, laboratory complex, lecture hall, glass house, and
roads connecting the gate house and new buildings were constructed. Though the general external
appearance of the buildings is good, design and workmanship is poor. There are already signs of
foundation failure, indicating that the design is not adequate for "black cotton" or swelling soils.
The kitchen has been designed with modem cooking equipment run on electricity and gas and is
not being fully utilized. Instead a recently constructed "fire kitchen" is used. The sewage system
for the dormitory is not operational because a suitable soakaway for the effluent from the septic
tank system has not been provided. The finish of PVC tiles in the laboratory complex and lecture
hall is inadequate. In these locations the tiling is already defective after only 2 years. Head height
at the landing of the stairwell at the Men's dormitory is dangerously low. Laboratory equipment
has been stored, unpacked, in a lab for nine months. Fumiture and most books have been
delivered and are in use.
Addis Ababa University  Admissions to post-graduate programs in 1997/98 was 309, an increase from 141 in 1993; overall  S
Post-Graduate         attrition was reduced to about 11% (in terms of first-year drop-outs). An MBA program was not
established because of a shortage of funds.
Addis Ababa University  Five short-cycle programs were identified: economic policy analysis; human resources  MS
Short-Cycle Graduate   economics; international marketing; enterprise management; and educational management and
Program               planning for regional governments. The first 2 were carried out with twinning with Oxford
University. The other 3 were not implemented, due to a shortage of qualified staff and of funds.
38 students have completed the short-cycle program, which falls short of the objective: 2 cohorts
of 12 students per year. The project provided instructional materials and equipment.



Statistics Annexes                                                                                                    Page 6 of 30
Component Description (DCA)        Achievements and outstanding issues                                                 Rating
Third-Level Institution    A demonstration lab, guest house, storage, office block, and staff housing were constructed and  S
Rehabilitation         equipped with computers and books.
Maintenance of tertiary   Kitchen facilities were remodeled and kitchens equipped at Bahir Dar Polytechnic and Gondar  MS
institutions           College of Medical Science. In 1994, the MOE established a separate budget line for higher
education facilities' maintenance, though there is no sign in this being used.
Teacher training       All degree-level training was brought under the AAU Faculty of Education in 1997. The faculty  S
had constructed demonstration and practice rooms for teaching physics and math. Grades 5-8
primary school teachers, who now require 2 (not 1) year of training, are receiving training
through a summer program, which is being converted into a distance-education program; 3,500
teachers are in the pipeline, though none has yet completed the 5-summer program. Assella TTI
and Kotobe College received a modest expansion of facilities and some furniture, equipment,
books, and instructional materials.
Libraries              Books were sent to 7 higher education institutions. The book procurement process experienced  MS
long delays because of the cumbersome way it was set up, and schools were not able to get the
titles they had requested. 171 secondary schools also received books. There is no record of
librarians being trained.
HS = Highly satisfactory
S  = Satisfactory
MS = Marginally Satisfactory
US = Unsatisfactory



Statistical Annexes                                                       Page 7 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 1C: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: BASIC EDUCATION
A. Achievement of  Substantial      Partial       Negligible     Not applicable
objectives
Macro policies                                                         X
Sector policies                                      X
Financial objectives                                 X
Institutional                                         X
development
Physical objectives     X
Poverty reduction                                    X
Gender issues                                        X
Other social                          X
objectives
Environmental                                                          X
objectives
Public sector                                                          X
management
Private sector                                                         X
development
Other (specify)
B. Project            Likely       Unlikely       Uncertain
Sustainability
x
C. Assessment of      Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
outcome         satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                     Page 8 of 30
Component  Description (DCA)          Achievements and Outstanding issues                             Rating
Basic     Instructional materials  The activity was threefold: (a) For printing textbooks, warehouses were  US
Education                            built for the Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency
(EMPDA), and paper was purchased-some with funds originally
intended for textbook development. Some palettes and reams of paper
were confiscated at the Assab port. A textbook revolving fnd was
tested, but found to be flawed, and abandoned. (b) Science equipment
was purchased and delivered to secondary schools, though there is
some evidence that it is not being used. (c ) Though planned as part of
restructuring, no effort was made to increase adult literacy.
Examinations             A National Organization for Examinations (NOE) was established in  MS
1995. The project provided about 100 reference books, printing
machines (though one is still at Assab), five computers and printers,
two optical markers (OMRs), masters degree training of two staff
members in the UK in tests and measurement, and short-term training
of the director and head of exam administration.
Facilities               New classrooms increased access to basic education to an estimated  S
25,000 children. Not completely in keeping with the project's site-
selection criteria, 108 primary schools and 10 lower secondary schools
were constructed, and 168 primary and 30 lower secondary schools
were rehabilitated; "rehabilitation" ranged from construction of new
classroom blocks to repair of old buildings and construction of fences.
Inspection of about 15 schools across 5 regions reveals that quality of
construction is generally satisfactory, through problems occur with
windows, ironmongery, and latrines. Furniture procurement was
severely delayed by problems with both procurement and local
delivery, and many schools had not received furniture by the project
completion date. Secondary schools received laboratory equipment,
though a spot check reveals this may not be used.



Statistical Annexes                                                    Page 9 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE ID: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: CAPACITY BUILDING
A. Achievement of      Substantial    Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
objectives
Macro policies                                                        X
Sector policies                                       X
Financial objectives                                   X
Institutional                            X
development
Physical objectives                                                   X
Poverty reduction                                                     X
Gender issues                                                         x
Other social objectives                                               x
Environmental                                                         X
objectives
Public sector                            X
management
Private sector                                                        X
development
Other (specify)
B. Project                Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
Sustainability
x
C. Assessment of         Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Highly
outcome             Satisfactory                             Unsatisfactory
x



Statistical Annexes                                                                                     Page 10 of 30
Component  Description (DCA)                Achievements and Outstanding issues                           Rating
Institutional  CESD/MOE/Regions             Support initially planned for MOE and CHE (Commission on Higher   MS
Development                                  Education), went to MOE in the form of tables, shelves and audio-
/Capacity                                  visual equipment for the Center for Staff Development (CESD).
Building                                  CESD trains and supports regionai as weii as centrai staff; the
project supported a staff training needs assessment.
Information Management         Planned support for EMIS development was taken over by other   N/A
donors.
Research and Innovation        The Institute of Curniculum Development and Research (ICRD)    MS
received computers and other equipment and funding for workshops
to evaluate curricula for math and science, grades 9 -12. Grade 9
math textbooks have been completely developed and contracted for
publishing. Other materials are in earlier stages of development.
Education VI                                Construction of 17 lower secondary schools was completed.        S
Carry-Over                                  Construction at Assella TTI, Nazaret Technical College, and the
Commercial College of Addis Ababa was completed. Radio
equipment for distance education was purchased and delivered to
four disadvantaged regions.
ERRP Carry-
Over
Asmara                                    The activity was dropped from the project in 1993.             N/A
University
IIEMD



Statistical Annexes                                               Page 11 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit tide             Purpose                Year of      Status
approval
Preceding
operations
C. 1520-0-ED      To improve quality and equity in the  December    Completed
education system and to expand   1984
educational opportunities,
particularly at the primary and
$70 million       secondary levels and in teacher
$ ltraining.
Following
operations
Cr. 3077ET        To provide universal access to   June 4, 1998  Effective
primary education and improve the
quality, efficiency, and social equity
Education Sector    of education services. The
Development       subprograms include basic education,
Program           secondary education, technical and
vocational education and training,
teachers training institutes and
$100 million      colleges, tertiary education, and
institutional development of the
I Ministry.



Statistical Annexes                                                       Page 12 of 30
ETHIOPL4: Education VII Project
TABLE 3: PROJECr TmETABLE
Steps in project cycle          Date planned         Date actual/latest
: : ~~~~~~~~~~~~esdfmate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               August 15, 1986
Preparation                                              August24, 1986
Appraisal                                                May_4,1987
Negotiations                                             November 13, 1987
Board presentation_                                      January 26, 1988
Signing                                                  March 8, 1988
Effectiveness                                            July 13, 1988
Changes to the Development Credit
Agreement:
*  Schedule 1                                            a  December27, 1990
*  Change in Schedule 1                                  *  November 8, 1993
*  Change in Schedule 2                                  *  November 8, 1993
*  Add new Section 3.03                                  *  November 8, 1993
*  Extension of Closing Date                             *  November 8, 1993
*  ExtensionofClosing Date                               .  June 16, 1996
Midterm review                                           None
Project completion                                       September 30, 1998
ETHIOPLA: Education VII Project
TABLE 4: LOAN/ICREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Millions)
:Y -           FY      FY      FY FY  FY  FY                    FY      FY      FY       Y
1988   1989   1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997   1998    1999
Appraisal 0      4.80    16.80   34.00   49.10   60.00   66.00   70.00    70.00   70.00   70.00   70.00
estimate  I                             I                           .
Actual    0      3.09    3.39    3.39    4.97    5.46    14.72   28.12    35.06   51.28   58.12   62.80
Actual as        64.3%  20.1%'o  9.97%   10.1%   9.1%    22.3%   40.17%   50.0%  73.2%   83.00%  89.70
% of
estimate
Date of final disbursement
March31, 1999
Project originally scheduled to end in 1994.



Statistical Annexes                                                 Page 13 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 5A: PROJECr COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Item         Local   Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign    Total
costs    costs                 costs      costs
Alemaya University   6.70     8.60       15.30      N/P       N/P      12.90
Asmara University    6.70    10.20       16.90      N/P        N/P      0.65
Mekele College                                      N/P        N/P      5.75
Ambo College        1.80      2.00        3.80      N/P       N/P       2.80
Jimma College       1.30      1.30        2.60      N/P       N/P       2.75
AAU Post-Graduate   .60       2.10        2.70      N/P       N/P       0.96
AAU Short Cycle                                     N/P       N/P       0.62
AAU Rehabilitation                                  N/P        N/P      0.81
Teacher Training    1.00      1.60        2.60      N/P        N/P      0.33
General Education   4.80      6.10       10.90
Higher Education    1.00      5.30        6.30
Textbooks                                           N/P       N/P       2.63
Adult Literacy                                      N/P        N/P      0.00
Science/math                                        N/P       N/P       1.45
Libraries                                           N/P       N/P       0.60
Examinations                                        N/P       N/P       0.83
Basic Education     7.30      5.60       12.90      N/P       N/P      14.44
Facilities
Capacity Bldg. MOE   0.20     0.60        0.80      N/P       N/P       0.65
Capacity Bldg. CHE   0.10     0.30        0.40      N/P       N/P       1.26
Proj. Devpmnt. CHE   0.10     0.30        0.40
Research/innovation                                 N/P       N/P       0.48
(studies, pilots)
Edu. VI Carry-over                                            N/P       5.60
ERRP Carry-over                                     N/P       N/P       6.93



Statistical Annexes                                                   Page 14 of 30
TABLE 5A: PROJECT COSTS (Continued)
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate(US$M) *
Item         Local     Foreign      Total     Local     Foreign    Total
costs      costs                 costs      costs
Professional        2.10       0.90        3.00
Services
Project Admin.      .20         .10        .30       N/P        N/P       0.35
Base Cost          36.20      46.00       82.20
Physical            2.60       2.40        5.00
Contingencies
Price               4.10       3.90        8.00
Contingencies
Total Project      42.90      52.30       95.20      N/P        N/P      62.80*
Cost
Source: Government of Ethiopia
N/P: Not Provided. The Government's accounts did not disaggregate foreign and local costs.
*Only including IDA credit expenditures. No disaggregation of control and regional
government counterpart contributions available.



Statistical Annexes                                                                        Page 15 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 5B: PROJECr COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$ Thousands)        Actual/latest estimate (US$
Thousands)*
Item           Local costs Foreign costs    Total      Local      Foreign        Total
costs      costs
Civil Works                 11.9         24.4        36.3         N/P         N/P          25.67
Furniture                    0.7          2.6                                               6.57
Equipment                    1.0         10.8                     N/P         N/P          19.99
Instructional Materials      .7           5.8         6.5         N/P         N/P           1.95
Vehicles                     0.1          1.1          1.2        N/P         N/P           0.90
Technical Assistance         0.9          7.0         7.9         N/P         N/P           3.28
Fellowships/Training         2.7          4.2         6.9         N/P         N/P           3.63
Professional Services        1.2          1.8         3.0         N/P         N/P
Operational Cost             0.8          0.9          1.7        N/P         N/P
Pre-investment/Pilot         1.3          2.0         3.3         N/P         N/P
studies
Project Administration       0.1          0.2         0.3         N/P         N/P
Development                                                       N/P         N/P           0.84
Baseline Cost                                                     N/P         N/P
Contingencies                3.8          9.2         13.0        N/P         N/P
Total Project Cost         25.2          70.0        95.2         N/P         N/P         62.80**
*Source: Ministry of Education report of December 10, 1998
** Does not include government counterpart contributions.
N/P: Not Provided. The Government's accounts did not disaggregate foreign and local costs.



Statistical Annexes                                                                                    Page 16 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised           Description of covenant              Comments
type     status  fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
2.02      03        C       2/15/88               Special account at National Bank of  Done
Ethiopia
3.01 (a)   05         C      8/15/88               Carry out project objectives with due    On-going
diligence and efficiency
3.01 (b)   05         C      8/15/88               Follow implementation progress      On-going
3.02      03        C       8/15/88               Follow established procurement     On-going
procedures
4.01 (a)   01         C      8/15/88               Maintain records and accounts       On-going, not completely
adequately                         adequate
4.01 (b)    01        C      8/15/88               Submit audit reports regularly      Audit reports up-to-date,
conditional
4.01 c     05        C       8/15/88               Record reflecting SOEs would be    On-going
maintained
3.1      05         C      8/15/88               Maintain Project Management Office    On-going
with staff and finance
3.2 (a)    05        CP      8/15/90               Shall furnish by April 30 Annual Work  1997/98 workplan was
Plan                               discussed with SPN mission
3.2 (b)    05        CP      11/30/90              IDA shall comment within 30 days on   1997/98 workplan was
Annual Work Plan                   discussed with SPN mission
3.4       12        C      11/20/91              Furnish status report on final work plan  Historical



Statistical Annexes                                                                                  Page 17 of 30
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Section    Covenant Present  Original    Revised
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment     Description of covenant     Comments
date       date
4.5        12       CD      2/28/93              New undergraduate enrollment of    No longer relevant because
Alemaya University does not exceed  there is no more centralized
projected manpower demand       manpower planning
4.6        12        C      2/15/89               Shall prepare an annual schedule for  Done. No new long-term
fellowship awards               fellowships expected to end
of project
4.7        12       CP      3/20/90              Establish a revolving fund for   Attempt failed and
textbooks                       discontinued
DCA    Covenant Present  Original    Revised           Description of covenant            Comments
Reference    type     status  fulfillment fulfillment
date       date
4.8        12       NC      2/20/90              Complete study on maintenance of   Never done though
higher education institutions and  important
follow up with recommendations
3.03 (a)     10       NC      4/30/94              Submit proposed budget and staffing  Never done
for the next fiscal year for Mekele   (amended 11/8/93):
College
3.03 (b)     10       C        7/1/94              Cause Mekele College to enter into a
twinning agreement
3.03 (c)    04        NC      7/7/94               Make adequate provision in the   Never done
budget for the upkeep and
maintenance of higher education
facilities



Statistical Annexes                                                                                     Page 18 of 30
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Covenant types:                                                                     Present status:
1 =  Accounts/audits                 8 =   Indigenous people                        C =   covenant complied with
I =  Financnialnperfornnance/ revenue  9 =   Monitoring, review, and reporting       CD =  complied with after
generation from beneficiaries                                                         delay
3 =  Flow and utilization of project  10 =  Project implementation not covered by    CP =  complied with partially
funds                                 categories 1-9
4 =  Counterpart funding             11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other  NC =  not complied with
resource allocation
5 =  Management aspects of the project  12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/
or executing agency                   institutional action
6 =  Environmental covenants         13 =  Other
7 =  Involuntary resettlement



Statistical Annexes                                                   Page 19 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 7A: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(US$ Thousands)
Planned                         Actual
Stage of project   Labor    Travel    Total    Labor    Travel       Total
cycle
Preparation       N/P       N/P       N/P   217,690    57,558       275,248
Appraisal         N/P       N/P       N/P     58,778    15,288      74,066
Negotiations      N/P       N/P       N/P     18,536     4,272      22,808
Supervision*      N/P       N/P       N/P   460,811    144,702     605,513
Completion        N/P       N/P       N/P      7,181       -         7,181**
TOTAL             N/P       N/P       N/P    762,996   221,820      984,816
* Includes $37,900 from consultant trust funds
** To be increased when final figures available
N/P: Not Provided



Statistical Annexes                                                                                       Page 20 of 30
ETHIOPIA: Education VII Project
TABLE 7B: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of  Month/   Number   Days in   Specialized          Performance rating *           Types of problems
project    year   of persons   field    staff skills
cycle                                   represented
Implementation  Development
status       objectives
Through
appraisal
Appraisal   Jan 26,
through     1988
Board
approval
Supervision Feb 22,                                           1               1       Project expenditures: (1)
1988                                                                      Questionable expenditure
commitment data; (2)
Inaccurate recording of
expenditures by component
Supervision Oct 16,                                           1               1
1988
Supervision Mar 11,      2                                    1               1
1989
Supervision Dec 5,       2                Architect,          1               1
1989                          Educator



Statistical Annexes                                                                                               Page 21 of 30
Table 7B: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of   Month/   Number   Days in    Specialized            Performance rating                Types of problems
project     year   of persons    field       staff skiUs
cycle                                      represented
Implementation   Development
status        objectives
Supervision  Jul 5,        2          12     Architect,            2               2        Civil works plans have not gone
1990                            Educator                                       beyond preliminary designs;
procurement delays; audit
overdue
Supervision  Dec 2,        2                 Architect,            2               2        Limited design work and
1990                            Educator                                       tenderingfor tech. Asst. has
taken place; shortage of
building materials
Supervision  Aug 30,                                               2               2
1991
Supervision  Jul 20,       2                 Educator,             2               2
1992                            Architect
Supervision  Jul 13,       3                 Educational           3               1
1993                            planner,
Implementation
specialist,
Principal
economist



Statistical Annexes                                                                                              Page 22 of 30
Table 7B: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of   Month/   Number   Days in    Specialized            Performance rating               Types of problems
project     year    of persons   field       staff skills
cyde                                       represented
Implementation | Development
status       objectives
Supervision  Sep 10,       3                Educational            3              1
1993                           planner,
Implementation
specialist,
Principal
economist
Supervision  Dec 17,       1                Senior                 2              1        Disagreement on re-siting of
1993                           Implementation                                 Asmara component to Mekele
Specialist                                    resolved; T.A. appointmentsfor
AA U, Ambo, and Alemaya not yet
in place; content of science books
not prepared; sites of basic ed.
facilities not decided;
reorganization of PMO still to be
realized.
Supervision  Jul 1,        5                Division               S             HS        No progress on 6 "developmental"
1994                           portfolio                                      components, to be prepared
manager, Senior                               through twinning; procurement
implementation                                process not going according to
specialist,                                   rules; Textbook revolvingfund
Consultant,                                   requires improvement; slow pace
Procurement,                                  of processing contracts
Information
management



Statistical Annexes                                                                                              Page 23 of 30
Table 7B: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
:Stage of   Month/   Number   Days in    Specialized            Performance rating *            Types of problems
project     year   of persons   field        staff skills
cycle                                      represented
Implementation   Development
status       objectives
Supervision  Nov 26,       5                Division               S              S        Project has been restructured;
1994                           portfolio                                       forward planning induced; firm
manager., Sr.                                  procurement plan established;
implementation                                 systematic monitoring of
spec.,                                        procurement of goods and services
Consultant,                                   introduced (SPPMS); regions lack
Procurement,                                  capacity to implement; few
Info.                                          responses to early tenderingfor
Management                                    construction; less that 13% of
developmental activities
implemented; Mekele construction
behind schedule
Supervision  Jun 21,       5                Textbook               S             HS         (Objectives reviewed); Poor record
1995                            consultant,                                    of returning fellows;
Procurement,                                   developmental activities that affect
Ed. Consultant,                                quality have yet to take off;
Disbursement                                   decentralization could divert
officer,                                       energy, affect capacity bldg.,
Economist                                      dislocate procedures



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                         Page 24 of 30
Table 7B: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of   Mouth/   Number   Days in    Specialized           Performance rating *                  Types of problems
project     year   of persons   field       staff skills
cycle                                     represented
Implementation  Development
status      objectives
Supervision  Dec 15,       4                Textbook              S              S       How to bring back and retain overseas fellows;
1995                           consultant,                                  software components have been shelved pending
Education                                    sector strategy; decentralization has changed
consultant,                                  nature of capacity-building requirements
Finance &
mgmt.
Consultant, Task
mgr.
Supervision  Jul 12,       3                Finance &             S              S       Project performance has been impressive since
1996                           mgmt.                                        restructuring; closing date extended 2 years
Consultant,
Architect, Task
manager
Supervision  Mar 20,       3         19    Mission leader,        S              S       Lists key indicators of outcome, and updates
1997                           Education                                    progress toward each objective. Problems noted:
economist,                                  Adequate textbook supply will depend on private
Consultant                                   sector participation. Inexperience of the regions in
architect                                   procurement as switch is made to local
competitive bidding for furniture; unforeseen
delays in civil works at Mekele; delays in Gode
Radio Station construction; weak mgmt of
accounts has improved; MOE and IDA have
agreed to flexibility in construction contracting:
MOE relinquishes on force accounting; IDA on
large construction packages



Statistical Annexes                                                                                                          Page 25 of 30
Table 7B: Bank Resources: Missions (continued)
Stage of    Month/year  Number  Days   Specialized           Performance rating                    Types of problems
project                     of       in     staff skills
cycle                   persons   field   represented
Implementation Development
status      objectives
Supervision   Mar 19, 1998                                         s             s       New progress update; architect, in 7/97, noted
problems in quality of school construction;
most software components have focused on
equipment acquisition, due to short time;
differences between govt. and IDA over
construction contracting being resolved but
have caused delays; costs have escalated due to
time lag: cost rises and continuing
deterioration; problems with computerizing
finance management system have delayed
________   ______ ____________                                closing account and audit report
Supervision   Jul 24, 1998    5      58      Mission leader,  U             s            (Lists progress by indicators; progress update)
Ed. Specialist,                             Problems: Furniture for schools may not be
Soc. Sect.                                  delivered, school construction and rehab may not
Specialist,                                 be completed by project closing; goods stuck at
Financial                                   Assab port may be lost to project; credit may not be
analyst,                                   fully disbursed by project closing; MOE's weak
Procurement                                 capacity to handle project accounts has not
specialist                                 improved; decentralization has exacerbated;
software projects were truncated, resulting in
limited impact; MOE has no systematic reporting
and monitoring mechanism in place, so project
management data is poor; PPD does not
acknowledge any weaknesses, making
improvements difficult.
* Rating system I to 4, 1 being highly satisfactory, and 4 being highly unsatisfactory
Comments in italics are found in aide-memoires that accompany supervision reports.






Appendices                                                            Page 27 of 30
ETHIOPIA
IDA Seventh Education Project
A. ILPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT AIDE-MEMOIRE
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Nicholas Bennett, Gebresalassie Okubagzhi, Eshetu Yimer,
Richard Coppinger, and Jeanne Moulton
(November 30 - December 12, 1998)
The mission assessed the status and processes of implementing IDA's Seventh Education Project.
The team visited colleges and schools in the regions of Amhara, Tigray, Gambella, Oromiya, and
the SNNPR. The first five years of project implementation suffered from the upheavals of civil
war and a change of government, and thus there was almost no implementation during this
period. As a result of those events, the project was restructured in 1993. During the next two
years, planning and approval processes were often delayed, as the new government was in
transition, had many urgent iiatters to attend to and had high rates of staff turnover. We have
taken these historical events into account in our assessment, which is based on the project as
restructured in 1993.
Achievements and sustainable outcomes
We have briefly assessed the achievements and sustainable outcomes of the project in terms of its
three objectives:
Increased supply of qualified manpower: Five institutions of higher education received new
buildings, equipment, vehicles, furniture, books, technical assistance in development, research,
and teaching, and fellowships abroad. All construction has been substantially completed; all
equipment, vehicles, furniture and books, with the exception of one tractor for Alemaya, have
been delivered. Most equipment has been installed, with the exception of laboratory equipment at
Mekele University College and Ambo Agricultural College. Four additional higher education
institutions received some assistance. The main shortcomings in this component are that
deliveries of equipment and furniture suffered significant delays, and a high portion (23 of 43) of
individuals given fellowships abroad did not return to Ethiopia. The two sustainable outcomes are
(1) an increased supply of manpower in the agriculture and forestry sectors, and (2) a new model
of higher education at Mekele that includes as an integral part of the program four months of field
internship.
Improved quality and equity of primary and secondary education: 107 new primary schools
were constructed and around 165 were rehabilitated (which often included additional new
classroom construction). Ten lower secondary schools were constructed and 29 rehabilitated;
many of these were equipped and furnished, though furniture has not yet reached some schools.
The project also made minor contributions to each of four key functions of the Ministry's
activities supporting instruction, namely, teacher training, textbook development, textbook
production, and examination development. The shortcomings in meeting this objective were that
about 5 percent of planned construction and rehabilitation of schools did not take place, and the



Appendices                                                             Page 28 of 30
delivery of furniture and equipment to schools was significantly delayed. Except for providing
better access to school by making more places available, the project did not take any notable
measures to improve equity. The three sustainable outcomes here are (1) at least 25,000 more
children were in primary and secondary schools, and textbooks and equipment were often in these
schools because of the project, and (2) new syllabi and textbooks for grade 9 science and
mathematics are published, and (3) the building design of primary schools was improved.
Strengthened planning and management capacity of the Ministry: Inputs for achieving this
objective were not present in the restructured project. Two new, small components were
maintained: The Center for Education Staff Development (CESD) and the Commission for
Higher Education received new furniture, equipment, and project funds. These have enabled
CESD staff to develop management training materials for regional-level education staff. Staff in
the IDA Project Management Office were given occasional short-term training. The one
sustainable outcome of this project component is the development of simplified procurement and
accounting procedures to be used under ESDP.
Unfortunately, the project suffered a number of serious losses, including the many fellowship
students who did not return to Ethiopia, the $1.23 million of equipment and supplies lost at
Assab. The 40 computers for Mekele that were sent for repairs and the nine vehicles taken from
Alemaya in 1995 for election-monitoring purposes have not yet been retumed
Procurement processes were sometimes weak and did not always follow World Bank guidelines
and procedures. Similarly, the new accounting system specially developed and installed one-and-
a-half years ago has not been fully satisfactory, as most project audits have been qualified and
there have been difficulties in getting the necessary information to close the project account.
Deficiencies in building design and site supervision have resulted in poor quality construction of
schools in some areas and construction defects at Ambo College, where, in the view of the World
Bank consultant engineer, there are signs of foundation failure in two of the buildings and sewage
system in one dormitory that is not operational.
Lessons learned
Altogether, the project will have a limited impact because of the wide dispersion of inputs and
activities in its original design across all regions and at many levels of the education system, from
literacy to Ph.D. training. According to school officials interviewed by the World Bank team,
implementation also suffered because staff at higher education institutions and secondary schools
were not sufficiently involved in implementation decisions, sometimes resulting in poor quality
and/or inappropriate civil works designs and specifications for equipment, furniture, and books.
Implementation became more difficult where the number of implementing agencies was larger:
there were more failures and delays at the primary and secondary school levels than at higher
institutions. At all levels, simple problems often took an extraordinarily long time to resolve.
Experience in project components has taught MOE and IDA other, more specific lessons:
Improving higher education institutions:
* Expansion of and improvements to the institutions has resulted in a high rate of staff and
faculty utilization and hence improved efficiency. Yet, enrollment at some of these
institutions is expanding too rapidly, with a risk of reducing quality.
* The timing of inputs was not well managed.



Appendices                                                               Page 29 of 30
* The proportion of women enrolled did not improve as expected, and was below the project's
25 percent target.
Improving basic education:
* In the rehabilitation of schools in the five regions visited, regional bureau staff almost always
opted to construct new blocks (often in chika) rather than repair existing ones. This was
largely due to shortage of engineers who could make assessments and draw up customized
rehabilitation plans.
*  Some civil works were not sufficiently supervised because of the same shortage of engineers
with adequate transportation. This resulted in lower-quality work.
* In Amhara, large contract packages became inefficient when they covered widespread
geographic areas, as the main contractor usually sub-contracted, thus losing economies of
scale. Large packages also exclude small local contractors, and when a contractor with a large
package performs poorly, many schools are affected.
* Some inputs in some schools were not cost-effective: for example, electrical installations in
units with no power supply and no night school, and under-used, newly constructed pit
latrines.
* Paying contractors from the central Ministry office rather than from regional bureaus delayed
construction and increased the cost of contracts.
* There are no signs of any routine maintenance of existing or new primary and secondary
schools.
* The new primary and secondary school facilities visited that were constructed with project
resources are under-utilized because they were planned on the basis of full-day sessions,
while many schools have recently moved to half-day sessions or double shifts.
* With the exception of staff housing, ancillary facilities (laboratories, pedagogical centers,
libraries, staff rooms, etc.) in the schools visited are rarely used.
* The mission noted that adjustments are needed in teachers' workload to accommodate
double-shifting in order to maintain the 25 to 30 periods per week that each teacher is
expected to teach.
* Communities are only marginally involved in school construction and maintenance.
* There is still a wide gap between instructional resources available at schools and
Government's efforts to increase those resources through improvements in teacher training,
curriculum, textbooks, examinations, and management.
We expect that the Ministry (and IDA) will benefit from these lessons during the implementation
of the Education Sector Development Program.
Next steps
On the basis of the information gathered during the mission, as well as a study of World Bank
documents and supervision reports, the Bank will prepare an ICR, which will be presented to the
Ministry (as a draft) by the end of January 1998, in order to obtain factual corrections from the
Ministry before the report is finalized.
At the same time, the Ministry will prepare its own ICR, according to guidelines already
provided, for submission to the Bank in early January. The Bank will also have the opportunity to
correct factual errors..



Appendices                                                            Page 30 of 30
The final ICR, including both parts, will be officially submitted to Government by the Bank at the
beginning of March. Final suggestions can be made at that time, if need be.
On a separate but related point, the remaining $5.5 million of outstanding disbursements must be
presented to the Bank for reimbursement not later than January 20, 1999, if payments are to be
made before the end of the four-month grace period.
We thank the Minister of Education, the Head of the Project and Planning Department, and those
in his office who have aided us in our mission.
Addis Ababa, December 11, 1998



B. Borrower's Contributions to the ICR
SUMMARY OF EDUCATION VII
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
MARCH, 1999
ADDIS ABABA



1. PREFACE:
This Implementation Completion Report ( ICR ) aims to assess the ability of the
Ethiopian Government in successfully implementing the Education - VII Project and
attaining of the stated objectives. The main objective in preparing this ICR is to enable
lessons to be drawn which will help to improve performance in future programs and
projects. As a result, this exercise has contributed highly to carry out self evaluation and
impact assessment of the project activities during the different phases. This ICR has also
included an extensive evaluation of the extent to which the project has achieved its
original and amended objectives. Further more, it will also help to see how far the
project is sustained and will provide feed back to similar development projects and
Programmes in the future. Therefore, it is believed that it will provide feed back obtained
from the experiences of the implementation process to improve strategies and design of
future operations.
We appreciate very highly the guidance given and contribution made by the task manager
of Education VII Project, Mrs. Young Kimaro and the technical support and cooperation
that was rendered by the resident mission for the successful completion of the project.
With out these contributions, it would have been impossible to accomplish the
implementation of the project satisfactorily.



Appendices                                                        Page 1 of 15
2. INTRODUCTION:
During the past 25 years, the education system in Ethiopia has been characterized by
repeated adjustments, restructuring and re-orientation due to changes in policies, plans
and modes of implementation. The frequent course changes have stalled significant
sustainable developments in the sector. The promotion of Universal Primary Education
has also been considerably delayed and only now is beginning to be sufficiently
promoted.
Before the new Government came in to power, the sector was managed by a vertically
organized system directed by a central body called - the Ministry of Education ( MOE ) -
with branch offices in the Administrative Provinces and Awrajas. MOE was responsible
for everything under earth concerning the education sector, i.e. formulation of policies,
planning, allocation of internal and external resources, employment and deployment of
personnel, monitoring and supervision of programs, etc. Where as, Provincial and
Awraja Education Offices were used only to implement decisions made by the central
body, MOE. They did not have the power and authority to decide on matters related to
their own communities educational affairs.
The current mandate of MOE is defined in Proclamation No. 41 / 1993. Its main
responsibilities are mainly limited to formulation of the country's educational policies and
strategies, soliciting external assistance, maintaining educational standards and providing
technical assistance to regional education bureaux. It was under this situation that the
restructured Education VII Project has been implemented. This has helped the regions in
acquiring and accumulating invaluable experiences in project implementation and has
enabled them to be familiarized with the Bank's guidelines and procedures.
Education VII project was one of the projects inherited from the pre-1991 days. The
MOE submitted in January 1993 its proposal for restructuring of the remaining
components under the project on the assumption that the closing date of March 31st,
1994 would be extended. The MOE also proposed that funds ear marked for Asmara
University be reallocated to establishing new institution of higher learning at Mekelle.
Following this request of the Government, the project was restructured initially during
February 1993 and further tuned in July 1993. About 43 separate investment items were
regrouped in 16 distinct program components and among the components, funds were re-
allocated. More over, the relative emphasis of program components shifted from higher
to basic education with primary education receiving the greatest increased allocation.
The Ministry of Education has implemented all the programs related to agricultural
education, post graduate studies, teacher training, libraries development, rehabilitation of
3rd level institutions, basic education facilities, examinations development, etc. and has
also managed to secure an annual budget for the required counter part funds.
However, some problems had been faced immediately after the project was restructured
due to the following reasons:



Appendices                                                       Page 2 of 15
- decentralization was a new phenomenon and many of the regions did not have
adequate and competent staff in the  beginning to implement the project in
line with the decentralization policy of the Government, and
- restructuring was taking place in most of public organizations and in the civil
service. This has resulted in frequent staff turn over and loss of institutional
memory to some extent.
Despite these problems that adversely affected the smooth implementation of the project,
the project has been successfully implemented in more than 90% of the cases.
3. STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project were to improve middle and higher level manpower
training, to ensure the quality and equity of the country's education system and to
strengthen its administration and management.
Originally, the project consisted of the following parts:
Part A Man Power Development.
Part B Quality and E]quity Improvement.
Part C Institutional .Development.
Part D: Pre-Investment Studies and Pilot Activities.
4. PROJECT COM[PONENTS AS AGREED DURING RESTRUCTURING.
Initially, the project was expected to be completed by March 31, 1994. However, after
the down fall of the military regime and the change of power in Ethiopia in May 1991,
the new Government proposed to the Bank to restructure the Project in line with the new
objectives, ideals and strategies of the country. After considering the proposal of the
government, the Bank agreed to restructure the Project as per the request.
The restructuring of the Seventh Education Project had been carried out with the Ministry
of Education in two phases. The first which took place in February 1993, reached
understanding with the MOE on the over all approach and concepts for the proposed
restructuring, and identified with respect to each program component the preparatory
activities that wouldl be required to complete the restructuring exercise. Then, the
restructuring was finalized in July 1993.
The Government of Ethiopia proposed to establish a college of agriculture at Mekelle, to
provide graduate man power with the necessary skills and practical experience required
for work in the Arid and Semi Arid areas of Ethiopia. This proposal was consistent with
the proposal previously approved by the World Bank to establish a Faculty of Arid Zone
Agriculture at Asmara University, to provide agricultural man power for all arid and
semi-arid areas of Ethiopia. The need for agricultural specialists who can tackle the
problems of soil and water conservation, crop production, animal husbandry and range
management in arid and semi - arid areas is even more urgent today, but the original
project component was no longer appropriate since Asmara was then in Eritrea and



Appendices                                                       Page 3 of 15
Eritrea was no more part of Ethiopia. The proposed new site at Mekelle in Tigray was
found to be well situated to serve the needs of Northern Ethiopia and other semi-arid
areas in Ethiopia.
Accordingly, the Bank agreed with the Ministry of Education on the detailed allocation of
project funds to support 16 project components. The following were the components
included in the restructured Education - VII Project:
4.1. College of Dry land Agriculture at Mekelle: Component 1873/1
4.2. Alemaya University of Agriculture : Component 1873/2
4.3. Jimma Junior College of Agriculture: Component 1873/3
4.4. Ambo Junior College of Agriculture: Component 1873/4.
4.5. Addis Ababa University Short Cycle Graduate Program :Component 1873/5.
4.6. Addis Ababa University Post Graduate Studies :Component 1873/6.
4.7. Rehabilitation of Third Level Institutions(Bahir Dar Polytechnic Institute and
Gondar College of Medical Sciences): Component 1873/7
4.8. Teacher Training: Component 1873/8
4.9. Instructional Materials: Component 1873 / 9.
4.10. Libraries Development: Component 1873 / 10.
4.11. Examinations Development: Component 1873 / 11.
4.12. Basic Education Facilities : Component 1873 / 12
4.13.Professional Capacity Development: Component 1873/13
4.14. Research and Innovation: Component 1873 / 14
4.15. Project Management: Component 1873 / 15.
4.16. Education VI Carry Over: Component 1873 / 16.
5. ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
Here, we will try to evaluate project achievements based on the restructured project
components. The performance of this project during the initial stages of implementation
was not satisfactory. This was partly because of lack of experience and partly due to the
then onI going civil war in the country.
Although project implementation improved after it was restructured in 1993, it was very
slow during the initial stages. Even after it was restructured, it took some time to use the
project fund and be able to disburse effectively. This delay was contributed partly by the
regionalization and recovery processes and maintaining peace and stability which was
taking place in the country and partly by the Creditor, i.e the World Bank. The project
Implementation gradually picked up after 1994. During the period of transition, MOE
was highly involved in rehabilitation and recovery activities that resulted from the civil
war. The FDRE policy of decentralization that gave full authority and responsibility to
the regions for managing and implementing projects in their respective regions was a new
initiative from what had been practiced earlier. Prior to 1991, the implementation and
management of projects were centralized by the MOE. After the change of Government



Appendices                                                            Page 4 of 15
in 1991, the responsibility to implement projects was transferred to the regions. This in turn
had its own problems at the initial stage of transition. The problems were:
5.1. The regional governments staff took time to become familiarized with the
procurement guidelines and procedures of IDA.
5.2. Preparation of bidding documents that could be up to the satisfaction of IDA was
not an easy task for the regions. As a result, it contributed to a great extent for
delays in obtaining no objection from IDA.
5.3. Getting approved regional action plans and status reports particularly for civil
works was also taking too much time.
5.4. Getting contractors who volunteer to work in remote areas of the country was
another problem. At the same  time, contractors did not have the capacity to
take up a number of large contracts.
5.5. Much time had also been taken in Prioritizing and identifying locations where
new schools    should be constructed and which of the older and damaged
schools should be rehabilitated.
5.6. Turn over of staff at the level of project implementation units was frequent
during the period of transition.
It was under these circumstances that the restructured Education Seven Project was
implemented and became successful for more than 95% in many of the components included
under this project.
However, in some cases, delays have been observed while implementing some project
components. The main reasons for the delays were:
-  strict regulations and procedures of procurement of goods, works and services and
problems in fund disbursement,
-  lack of knowledge and experience in preparation of bid documents, analysis and
evaluation of bids and contract award, and
-  frequent change staff who were following the project at various levels, especially
at the earlier years.
The original credit amount during restructuring had been USD 70.00 million. Out of this,
USD 5.9 million was cancelled during restructuring and a foreign exchange gains of USD 4.3
million was obtained. Therefore, the adjusted balance for the restructured Education VII
Project was USD 68.4 million. As of March 31st, 1999, USD 62.5 million has been disbursed
and has left an amount of nearly 5.9 million USD for cancellation. This indicates that about
92% of the adjusted balance during restructuring has been disbursed by the end of the grace
period, (Refer Annex 1 for the Expenditure by Component and Category). In general,
achievement of project objectives is likely to be more than satisfactory. The following table
will help to see how far project objectives have been achieved.



Appendices                                                                                                                                        Page 5 of 15
ETHIOPIA: EDUCATION VII
Table 1: Achievements and Key Implementation Indicators (continued)
Project
components/objectives       Inputs provided           Key Indicators                                        Achievement
1. Alemaya             *  Civil works - new       *  Establish a Faculty of  *  All civil works completed;
University of          classrooms, laboratory,    Forestry;            *  In 1996/97, total enrollment in undergraduate and graduate programs reached 1,567
Agriculture            workshop, dormitories,  *  Achieve annual           of which 195 (12.4%) was female;
- improve quality      staff housing, offices,   intake in B.Sc. for   *  Faculty of Forestry was established in 1989/90 with 31 students; for the 1996/97
and relevance of       greenhouse, screen         forestry to 25, and      academic year, 91 were enrolled;
agricultural           house, shed, garage;       annual average       *  27 fellows were sent out for training -- 16 for Ph.D. and 11 for Masters; of those only
education,             renovation of existing     graduation to 25;        3 with Ph.Ds and 3 with Masters' degrees returned; I interrupted his study and
-increase supply of    of classrooms and      *  Increase annual           returned; overall repatriation rate of 22.2 % has been achieved;
agriculturists,        laboratory;                intake in M.Sc. from   *  TA was obtained from Oklahoma University through twinning mainly for teaching,
especially in      *  Laboratory and              35 to 50, and annual     research and curriculum development. Out of the 108 man month technical assistance
forestry               workshop equipment;        average graduation       101 man month ( 93.5 % ) has been implemented.
10 vehicles, an           from 35 to 50;        *  Curricula was revised;
ambulance; (a tractor    *  Revise curricula;   *  Share of credit hours devoted to practical training was increased from 45 % to 60%.
was not received, a    *  Improve overall       *  Important agricultural equipment, vehicles, furniture and books were procured and
short-landing certificate  quality of students.    delivered.
was obtained);
* Reference books
* TA;
*  Staff training
2. Mekele Dryland      *  Civil works -           *  Establish a           *  All facilities, including the amphitheater, are completed.
Agriculture             communal and               department of Arid    *  In lieu of a "Department of Arid Zone Agriculture," a College of Dryland Agriculture
- to build capacity of  academic facilities,       Zone Agriculture;        was established in 1994/95;
research and training   staff office, field station  *  Increase B. Sc.  *  B.Sc. annual enrollment reached 282 in 1996/97. of which 32 (11%) were female;
in dryland              on a 300 ha.;              annual enrollment    *  27 graduated for the first time in 1996/97, of these I was female;
agriculture         *  Equipment, furniture, 9     from 40 to 60;       *  TA, mainly for teaching, research and curriculum development, was obtained from
vehicles, I tractor with   *  Produce 25 graduates  the University of North Wales , Center for DTyland Agriculture at Bangor through
trailer, and books;       per year;                twinning and it was successfully completed by the 28th of August 1998.
*  TA;                    *  Increase the share of   *   11 staff received long-term training, all of whom returned, achieving a 100 %
*  Fellowship.                female students from     repatriation rate.
10% to 25%.          *  Important agricultural equipment, vehicles, furniture and books were procured and
delivered.



Appendices                                                                                                                               Page 6 of 15
Table 1: Achievements and Key 1'mjpmentation Indicators (Continued)
Project
components/objectives      Inputs provided          Key Indicators                                     Achievement
3. Jimma Junior        *  Civil works - lecture    *  Diploma program   *  Diploma program enrollment remained relatively unchanged from 438 in 1993/94 to
College of              hail, laboratory         enrollment capacity     446 in 1996/97;
Agriculture             complex, workshop,       is 400; no increase in  *  Efficiency has improved by 25% with the number of graduates increasing from 147 in
- improve quality of     cafeteria, staff         enrollment is           1993/94 to 186 in 1996/97:
training                housing, storage,       proposed;            *  Laboratorv and field work credit hours increased from 45'Y0 in 1993/94 to 60% in
water supply and     *  Diploma program          1996/97.
drainage;               annual graduates     *  All the civil works were completed.
*  Laboratory, workshop     increased by 50;    *  The necessary agricultural equipment, books and vchicles were procured and
and field equipment;    *  Training that is more  delivered.
vehicles;               balanced between     *  Curriculum is developed and curricula materials w erc developed using the technical
*  Books and teaching       theory, laboratory      assistance and are in use.
materials;              and field work.      *  Important agricultural equipment. vehicles. furniture and books were procured and
o  TA for curriculum                                delivered.
development;
* Staff training.
4. Ambo Junior College  *  Civil works - lecture    *  Enrollment to be  *  Diploma program enrollment increased from 162 in 1993/94 to 345 in 1996/97
of Agriculture          hall, laboratory         increased from 200 to   (113%);
- improve quality of    complex, workshop,       350;                *  The number of graduates increased from 43 in 1993/94 to 80 in 1996/97 (86%). This
training               dormitory, cafeteria,    *  Number of graduates  is at a slower rate than enrollment which implies that efficiencv may have declined:
staff housing, storage,  with diploma        *  Laboratorv and field work credit hours incrcased from 45% in 1993/94 to 60% in
utility buildings, water  increased by 50;       1996/97.
supply and drainage;   *  Training that is more   a  All the civil works are completed.
*  Laboratory, workshop     balanced between     *  The necessary agricultural equipment, books and vehicles are procured and delivered.
and field equipment;    theory, laboratory   *  Curriculum was developed and curricula materials were prepared
vehicles                and field work.
*  Books and teaching
materials;
*  TA for curriculum
development;
*  Staff training.



Appendices                                                                                                                                    Page 7 of 15
Table 1: Achievements and Key Implementation Indicators (Continued)
5. Addis Ababa        *  Instructional        a  Establish six          e  Five short cycle programs were identified in
University Short       materials and           experimental programs    i. Economic Policy Analysis.
Cyde Graduate          equipment;              in selected fields.    ii. Human Resources Economics.
Program            o  TA for program       e  Produce two cohorts of  iii. International Marketing,
- innovative           desivn and teaching.    12 persons per year for   iv Enterprise Management and
experimental                                   each program:          v Educational Management and
programs in six                            o  Monitor and evaluate       Planning for Regional government.
fields to draw                                the programs.           i and ii were cairied out with twinnung with Oxford Unix ersity and the department is
lessons from for                                                      assisting in training manpower for local needs as  well as for countries in the African region.
other fields.                                                         iii. iv and v not carried out due to shortage of qualified staff and funds: but programs in
International Marketing, Management and MBA have been approved.
*  A total of 28 students have completed the short cycle program
*  The staff for both programs were recruited in the frame w4ork the training arrangemcnt
agreed with the University of Oxford Xwith fund obtained from EEC and thus IDA fund
for technical assistance was not used.
*  Instructional materials and equipment e ere received
6. Addis Ababa        *  Civil works -        *  Increase number of      a  Total admissions to post-graduate program in 1997/98 was 309 (including 2 for Ph.D.
University, Post-      demonstration           post-graduate students    program):
Graduate Prgram        laboratory, guest       from 40 to 70peryear.  *  The number of graduates increased from 141 in 1993 to 232 (of which 8% were female)
- meet high level      house, storage,     *  Establish new high          in 1996/97:
manpower               office block, and       lev el management and   *  Overall attrition rate for graduate programs reduced to about I 1% ( 1996/97 ) measured
requirements for       staff housing:          accounting programs        in terms of first year dropouts:
scientists, managers  *  Equipment,            (MBA):                 *  An MBA program was not established because of shortage of finds and qualified
and accountants,       computers, and      *  Reduce wastage in          teaching staff:
books;                 overall graduate       *  Three Ph.D. candidates in Accounting and Management were sent for further studies to
*  TA budgeted for         program from 65% to        U.S.A. and U K. One is deceased and two are still follow ing their programmes.
MBA program but        56%.
not used:
* Staff trained.
7.Maintenance of      *  Remodeling of        *  Establish a separate    *  Budget line 6204 was introduced to enable higher education institutions maintain their
Third Level            kitchen facilities:     budget line for higher    facilities:
Institutions (Bahir   *  Kitchen equipment.    education facilities'  *  From 1995/96 to 1997/98 a total of birr 6.612.383.- was allocated to higher education
Dar Polytechnic and  *  Reference books        maintenance(from July     facilities maintenance. This shows an average of birr 2.204.127.6 has been allocated for
Gondar CoUege of                               1994):                    a year for the maintenance of higher education facilities, such as building, equipment



Appendices                                                                                                                                  Page 8 of 15
Table 1: Achievements and Key Implementation Indicators (Continued)
Medical Science)                                                           and furniture. This does not include the maintenance for vehicles, budget line 6205. In
- establish a system for                                                  the last three years, birr 3,252. 661.- has been allocated from government treasury for
maintenance and                                                           the maintenance of vehicles in higher education institutions.
upkeep of tertiary                                                      *  Kitchen equipment were delivered and installed.
institutions.                                                           *  Provision of books were made to Poly technic Institute.
8. Teacher Training    *  Civil works -      *  Bring all degree level    *  Degree level teacher training programmes found in Addis Ababa were brought under
(at Addis Ababa          demonstration and      teacher training under     AAU Faculty of Education in 1997; and additional degree level teacher training
University Faculty of    practice rooms for     AAU Faculty of             programmes are being carried out at Dila, Alemaya and Bahir Dar.
Education, Assella       teaching physics and   Education;              *  Distance education courses for teacher upgrading are developed under ESDP.
TTI and Kotobe           math; modest        *  Introduce teacher       *  Share of untrained primary school teachers (grades 1-6) has declined from 35% to
College)                 expansion of           upgrading through          below 10%;
- improve the quality of  facilities at total 6  distance leaming;      *  Credit hours for pedagogical courses increased from 40 % to 60% and practical
teacher training in      TTIs;               *  Provide in-service         training increased from four weeks to six weeks;
science and math;     *  Furniture and          training to 1,500       *  In line with the New Education and Training Policy, 5000 first cycle primary school
- reform degree level    equipment;             uncertified teachers       teachers ( Grades I - 4 ) attended upgrading courses that enable themn to teach in upper
teacher training;     *  Books and               annually, use distance    grades of 5 - 8.
- increase share of      instructional          education for teacher in-  *  Provision of books and instructional materials, equipment and furniture
trained teachers.        materials              service training;
*  Emphasize subject
matter pedagogy and
increase practical
training;
*  Grant full certification to
teachers who
successfully complete in-
service training program.
9.Instructional       *  Civil works -       a  Strengthen school       e  The training of inspectors /education supervisors / is the responsibility of regional
Materials                Warehouses for         inspection services;       education bureaux. The regions do this activity frequently using regional governments
- improve classroom      EMPDA, radio        *  Train teachers in the use  budget;
conditions;              station at Gode;       of new curricula;      *  Curriculum reform for primary schools was implemented over 4 years;
- test a mechanism for   *  Science and maths   *  Establish a textbook  e  Teachers teaching at various grade levels received orientation in the use of new
sustainable provision of  equipment for         revolving fund, and keep   curricula;
textbook;                primary and            book production costs    r  Pilot textbook revolving fund was not fully implemented because it was seriously
increase adult literacy.  secondary schools;   under regular review;      under-designed;
*  Furniture for senior
secondary schools



Appendices                                                                                                                                      Page 9 of 15
Table 1: Achievements and Key Implementation Indicators (Continued)
Project
components/objectives     Inputs provided          Key Indicators                                         Achievement
*   paper for EMPDA    *  ImDrove access to and    *  The literacy program was financed by a Germanr NGC  called IIZ/DVV'.
for printing           quality of adult iteracy    *  43% of the papers procured to produce textbooks were received and the remaining
textbooks;             program.                    57% has been remained at Assab.
*  Teacher training on
the use of new
curricula;
*  Training of
additional
20 inspectors
10. Libraries         *  Books and library    *  Increase the stock of   *  A lot of titles were provided to 9 higher education institutions; only 50 % of the titles
- improve quality of   equipment;              books for 9 higher         were those originally ordered because of long delay in processing book procurement;
higher education   *  Training.                education institutions     books were also procured for 108 lower and 63 Senior secondary schools;
instution and                                  and 108 lower and 63    *  A pilot textbook fund was tested briefly. However, the pilot design was found to be
secondary school                               higher secondary           flawed, and abandoned.
libraries.                                     schools;
* Pilot test a textbook
revolving fund;
*  Train librarians.
1t. Examination       *  Equipment and        *  Consolidate             *  National Organization for Examination (NOE) was established, bringing all
Development           books;                  examinations under one     exanmination related responsibilities under one roof;
- strengthen      *  TA;                      body;                  *  No TA was engaged;
capacity to       *  Training             *  Equipment and books;    *  2 staff have completed long-term M.Sc. training and returned; the manager and one
implement                                *  TA;                          senior management staff have also received short-term training.
national                                 *  Staff training.          *  Reference books and equipment were purchased and delivered to the organization.
examinations;                                                            However, one offset press machine shipped by Man Roland has been held at Assab.
- increase
relevance of
examinations to the
education system.



Appendices                                                                                                                               Page 10 of 15
Table 1: Achievements and Key Implementation Indicators (Continued)
Project
components/objectives    Inputs pmvided           Key Indicators                                       Achievement
12. Basic Education    *  Civil works -      *  Construct 125 new      *  Construction of 108 new primary schools and 10 lower secondary schools were
Facilities            construction and        primary schools, 10       completed; beneficiary regions are Tigray (war damaged), Afar, Somali, Benishangul-
- improve access to   rehabilitation of       lower secondary schools   Gumuz and Gambella (four most disadvantaged regions), SNNPR, Amhara, Oromiya
education in war      schools;               in regions with            (three large regions with low enrollment), Harar, Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa
damaged or         *  Furniture.              enrollment ratio lower    (predominantly urban regions with high enrollment but with low rural enrollment);
disadvantaged                                than the national       *  Rehabilitation of about 168 primary and 30 lower secondary schools is completed;
regions with low                              average;               *  Furniture for 264 primary and 36 lower secondary schools have been produced and
school enrollment.                        *  Rehabilitate 240 primary   delivered. One furniture supplier, called GSA, failed to fulfil its contractual obligation.
and 32 lower secondary    In consequence, 101 primary and 6 lower secondary schools could not be furnished.
schools;                  Another alternative source of financing is being explored.
Furnish 350 primary
schools and 10 lower
secondary schools.
13. Professional      *  Computers and       *  Establish an Education    *  EMIS financed by SIDA;
Capacity              equipment;              Management             *  Needs assessment was carried out with (JNDP financing and using the fund obtained
Development        *  Staff training          Infornation System        from the government treasury.
- strengthen       *  TA unused.             (EMIS);                 *  Some training have been provided to regional managers with FINNIDA financing and
Ministry's planning,                      *  Carry out needs            funds obtained from other sources.
management and                                assessment;            *  Some reference books and equipment were procured to strengthen CESD.
policy formulation                        *  Train regional education
capacity.                                     managers.



Appendices                                                                                                                                  Page 11 of 15
Table 1: Achievements and Key Implementation Indicators (Continued)
Project
components/objectives    Inptits provided         Key Indicators                                       Achievement
14. Pre-investment                           *  Studies carried out;   *  Several studies were undertaken outside the Education VII context:
Studies and Ptiot                        *  New operation prepared.  *  Women in Development study was carried out by the World Bank (1997/98);
Activities                                                          *  A Strategic Resource Planning for Girls' Education country case study was carried
- studies such as                                                      (1996/97);.
accounting,                                                         *  Thirteen pre-investment studies for Education VIII (Education Sector Development
modern                                                                 Program) were carried out over 3 years with two Japanese PHRD grants; These
isfomnation                                                            provided inputs to the preparation of a new sector investment program (ESDP),
technology,                                                            approved by the Board and signed in FY98.
maintenance
practices in higher
educational
institutions, women
in development and
alternative training
systems leading to
pilot activities.
15. Carry-over                                                         *  Radio communications equipment were provided to 4 disadvantaged regions;
Activities from                                                     *  Construction of 22 lower secondary schools transferred from Education VII were
Education VI                                                           completed;
Construction of Assella TTI, Nazareth Technical College and Commercial College of
Addis Ababa were completed;
* Water supply was provided to 6 secondary schools in Oromiya and Anihara regions



Appendices                                                               Page 12 of 15
6. Impact of IDA - VII Education Project:
Even though it took ten and half years to be implemented and faced many ups and downs in the
process, this project has brought many changes in the education sector as a whole and had a
tremendous impact on basic education facilities, higher education institutions and capacity
building. Specifically:
* it helped to construct, rehabilitate, furnish and equip a lot of schools and new buildings in
many higher education institutions. This has helped to increase the quality of educational
services in the country.
*  it has helped to increase access to basic education facilities, to maintain equity among
regions and disadvantaged areas and to improve the quality of the education system
substantially.
*  develop capacity, particularly in higher education institutions and at national level.
*  regions and their staff have acquired quite a lot of experiences in project implementation and
helped them to familiarize themselves with the Bank's guidelines and procedures of
procurement of goods, civil works and services.
7. Factors Affecting Project Implementation
Although gradual improvements have been made, the following were some of the factors that
affected effective implementation of the project.
*  The budget originally allocated for construction and rehabilitation, was found to be
insufficient due to the price escalation for construction materials in the past ten years and
delay in project implementation.
*  In most cases, contractors  and suppliers were not getting their money on time due to
erroneously prepared ( defective ) payment certificates and lengthy bureaucratic procedures
in approving payment certificates at the various levels.
  Poor performance and workmanship of civil work contractors and use of poor quality
construction materials.
*  Inadequate trained manpower, particularly civil engineers, at various levels to supervise and
follow up civil work activities on a regular basis.
*  Delay in the approval of tender documents and in obtaining no objection from the Bank.
* High turn over of man power at various levels of the regional governments structure,
especially at the early stage.
*  Low familiarity with the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures.
*  Unable to obtain timely status reports and necessary information from beneficiaries of the
project.
*  Loss of institutional memory due to constant change over of man power at various stages of
implementation.
*  Use of non-standard bid documents had been a problem for many of the delays during
implementation.
*  In adequate quality of bid evaluation.
*  Delays in submission of audit reports were considered as problems in some occasions.
*  The lag in disbursement has been followed by a lag in actual performance during project
implementation.



Appendices                                                               Page 13 of 15
*  Delay in timely acting to reimbursement and replenishment requests submitted to the Bank.
D  Delay in the preparation of specification and problems related to its quality.
*  Unable to obtain immediate response on the part of the creditor to documents related to
bidding and bid evaluation results.
*  Delays in signing of contract and in fulfilling terms related to performance security bond on
the part of some suppliers and contractors.
*  Unable to obtain foreign currency exchange permit from the Bank on time. This had resulted
a substantial delay in opening of Letter of Credits and an expiration of the price validity date.
*  Underestimation of the production and distribution time of some goods.
*  Use of partial, trans and consolidate shipment on the part of the suppliers without the consent
of their client and sending incomplete packing lists and other related shipping documents.
*  Unable to use other shipping lines other than ESL.
*  unable to distribute goods on time due to the bureaucratic procedures of the customs
authority and not having stores in sufficient quantity and in good condition.
*  Unable to obtain invoices and goods receiving reports from beneficiaries on time.
* Inadequate manpower of the procurement unit of IDA-VII education project.
8. Measures Taken to Problems Encountered:
Even though quite a lot of problems have been encountered in the process of implementation,
realistic measures were taken in every step in order to complete the project successfully. Some of
the remedial solutions that had been taken during implementation are as follows:
*  It has been tried to solve the problems through repeated communications and contacts with
I)A, regional education bureaus, Commercial Bank of Ethiopia, suppliers, contractors,
Customs Authority, and various implementing departments and agencies of the Ministry, etc.
  Some of the budget deficits have been covered by making re-allocations.
*  Priorities have been set to overcome problems related with shortage of budget.
*  Number of schools intended to be constructed newly and rehabilitated were reduced to over
come the budget deficit. Originally, it had been planned to construct 125 new primary and 10
lower secondary schools and to rehabilitate 240 primary and 32 lower secondary schools.
But, as a result of budget deficit this original plan has been revised to construct 111 new
primary and 10 lower secondary schools, and to rehabilitate 182 primary and 30 lower
secondary schools. However, 108 new primary out of 111 and almost 10 of the new lower
secondary schools were completed and 168 out of 182 primary and all the 30 lower
secondary schools were rehabilitated.
*  Assessment of the situation of schools that should be rehabilitated was done in haste. This
has affected the quality of data collected for the purpose. Addition and omission of work
orders were given to compensate the errors committed as a result of poor assessment of the
conditions of school buildings.
*  Orientation and training workshops on the Bank's guidelines and procedures of procurement
and disbursement had been organized for regional and MoE's staff.



Appendices                                                               Page 14 of 15
9. Lessons Learned from Project Implementation:
The implementation of this complex and older project has helped the implementers at various
levels to learn quite a lot during the process and contributed for the improvement of some
impeding procedures and guidelines on the part of both partners. It is believed that this will
contribute greatly for the smooth implementation of upcoming projects. The following are some
of the major lessons learned while implementing IDA - VII Education Project:
.  Regions should have separate account for the project to minimize the lengthy financial
procedures and to relieve contractors from going to Addis to collect their small payments.
The contractors have complained that the existing mechanism of effecting payments costs
them much time and money.
*  Regional education bureaux have gained a lot of experiences in implementing and managing
construction projects because they were given the opportunities of preparing bidding
documents, bidding, approving payments, monitoring and following up the activities.
  During project implementation, it was observed that the procurement of locally available
goods, especially, furniture for basic education ( primary and secondary ) and higher
education institutions through National Competitive Bidding is found to be better for the
following reasons:
i. NCB mode of procurement is more time and resource saving than the ICB mode.
ii. The prevalence of market economy in the country has created fertile ground for the
emergence of not only numerous but also capable private enterprises that can supply
quality goods and services through NCB mode of procurement( For instance, the
furniture produced locally for the various higher education institutions, primary and
secondary schools can be good examples for the availability of the capacity in the
country ).
iii. The NCB mode of procurement provides invaluable opportunities to make close
follow ups and control on    the quality of goods while they are produced.
iv. The procurement of furniture specially for basic education facilities at the regional
levels ( like the civil works) would minimize the cost of transportation to the specific
sites.
*  The aggregate ceilings given in the Development Credit Agreement for the procurement of
goods, works and services through NCB fall short of the respective costs to be incurred
locally. Therefore, the aggregate ceilings for the procurement of goods, works and other
services through NCB should be considered and be raised reasonably.
*  A substantial improvement is observed and a lesson is gained in the utilization of special
accounts due to regular submission of withdrawal applications to replenish the special
accounts.
*  The devolution of project implementation responsibilities from PMO to the regions was
found to be necessary to assure the ownership of the project and its sustainability after
project completion.
  A systematic monitoring and evaluation of the project against its development objectives
could have enabled the project to identify and correct important deficiencies with a positive
impact on project outcome. Such continuous monitoring by the Government high level
committees is found to be effective in facilitating and expediting implementation.
*  The preparation of an implementation manual would be useful in clarifying responsibilities
and duties of implementers at various levels and the different partners.



Appendices                                                               Page 15 of 15
The completion of civil works and the provision of equipment and furniture to the facilities
should be coordinated. It was found to be essential if the procurement of equipment and other
facilities coincide with the expected dates of completion of the civil works.
* The devolution of power to regions has created a conducive environment for regions to
decide and implement programmes which benefit their society; however, the problem of
getting sufficiently qualified staff to effectively utilize the decentralized powers was found to
be a problem to some of the disadvantaged regions. Therefore, capacitating their deficiencies
will be very important.
10. Conclusion
Despite of the exceptionally difficult circumstances prevalent in the country in the early years of
project implementation and the in adequate capacity of some regional education bureaux, the
objectives of Education VII Project were satisfactorily achieved.
The successful implementation of the project is mainly attributed to the strong commitment of
the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the regular monitoring mechanisms introduced
to the system to follow up project activities. Further more, the commitment of the Government to
make available the counter part budget to finance project costs on time has helped the project
implementation to be more successful. The Federal Government and regional councils were also
determined to allocate adequate recurrent budget to operate and maintain existing educational
facilities and proposed educational programmes for the future. This will give assurance to the
sustainability of Education VII Project. This is also clearly reflected in the five years Education
Sector Development Programme. In this programme, it is clearly indicated that 72.5% of the
over all financing of the five years Education Sector Development Programme is going to be
covered by the Government and only the remaining 27.5% of the total cost needed for the
programme will be contributed by the donors community. This shows how far the Government is
determined to take the responsibility of financing major educational activities and the effort that
it is showing to make projects more sustainable.
High turn over of project staff, in adequate trained man power to supervise and follow up civil
work activities and lack of acquaintance to the World Bank procurement guidelines and
procedures at the various levels were among the major problems faced during implementation.
We hope that these problems will be addressed properly in the upcoming programmes or
proj ects.
Finally, we appreciate the guidance given and contributions made by the task manager of
Education - VII Project, Mrs. Young Kimaro and the technical support and cooperation that was
rendered by the resident mission for the successful completion of the project. With out these
contributions, it would have been impossible to accomplish the implementation of the project
satisfactorily.



MAP SECTION



35-
ETHIOPIA
EDUCATION SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NATIONAL CAPITALS
STATE/REGION BOUNDARIES
ERITRE                                                                       ----------  ZONE BOUNDARIES
4,1(hartoum                                       Asmara(g                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-15'                                                                                                                   15'-
0      100      200     300      AOO     500
KILOMETERS
w-st Ti G MlY 7
TWO
S U D A) N                                                                     c
North
Gonder                         Four
10                                               r-M
t,                   Lake A                              A
th
b
West
Metekel         Gola
s mvf 5 HANGUL    swcjwle 7E,,st              South
10 11 1              -1--'Goiam        Wello                       nile
-10,                                  40
Ec $a
DIRE
Welle,                               hre                 iiiiga
w   t 11
SOMALIA
West        East
Harerghe
boi                                    Harerghe'
\JZhwe                                                                                          Degehabur
'J'
Arsi
TWO
IF                                                                   Fike 'I,"                     Warder
'J"                                                               1-  ;,s 0  m  x,L
Benc                orth                          Bale                        ',,,Ke6ridekar",
'Omo
Mali
sputh                                                                      Gode
-5-                                                   Oin o              Burii                                 Af er
rashi
nso
Borena
Z.g Turcona
>
UGANDA
10
K E N Y A
35'                                           40'                                                                                                           OD
It          %    m                                       i           ?                      41Y



