Page  1
                                           June 8, 1988
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
     Re: Credit No. 1676 ET (Port Engineering and Construction
     Project)
     Credit No. 1704 ET (Energy Project)
     Credit No. 1722 ET (Forestry Project)
     Credit No. 1765 ET (Small-Scale Irrigation and Conservation
     Project)
     Credit No. 1782 ET (Fourth Livestock Development Project)
     Credit No. 1873 ET (Seventh Education Project)
     Introduction of Variable Commitment Charge - Amendment
Dear Minister:
     The International Development Association (the Association)
has decided to institute a system of variable commitment charges
on its development credits, set on an annual basis, with a maximum
charge of 1/2 of 1 percent (0.5%) per annum, which has been the
rate of commitment charges since their introduction in 1982.
Under the new system, the Association will set the commitment
charges payable on its development credits on June 30 in each
year, and, for an initial period, commencing July 1, 1988, the
rate has been set at zero (0).  The current rate of 1/2 of 1
percent (0.5%) per annum will continue to be applicable until June
30, 1988.
          To effect these changes, the Association proposes to
amend development credit agreements already signed.  Therefore,
the Association hereby agrees to amend Section 2.04 of each of the
Development Credit Agreements entered into between Ethiopia (the
Borrower) and International Development Association (the
Association) for the above-captioned Projects to read as follows:
          "Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay,to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate
of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement to the respective dates on
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled at the rates set from time to time pursuant
to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June @-10, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
          (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the, territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section."
          Kindly confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the
foregoing by signing and dating the confirmation form on the
enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us for our files.
Page  2
                                        Very truly yours,
                                        Callisto E. Madavo
                                        Eastern Africa
Department
                                        Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
ETHIOPIA
BY:
     Authorized Representative
Date:August 2, 1988
