Page  1
                                                 January 13, 1988
Minister Wollie Chekol
Minister of Finance
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
                  Re: Advance for the Preparation of Seventh
                  Education Project Amendment
Dear Minister:
      This refers to our letter of July 7, 1987 and your telexes of
June 24, 1987 and June 26, 1987 by which the International
Development Association (IDA) agreed to an Advance from IDA for the
project preparation activities outlined in your telexes, and to your
telex of December 28, 1987 requesting the establishment of a Special
Account for the Advance.
          I am pleased to inform you that to facilitate the carrying
out of the project preparation activities, we accept your request to
open a Special Account in dollars in the National Bank of Ethiopia
on the terms and conditions specified in the Annex hereto.
                                    Sincerely yours,
                                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
                                    By
                                          Callisto E. Madavo
                                          Director
                                          Eastern Africa Department
                                                             ANNEX
                          SPECIAL ACCOUNT
1.        For the purposes of this Annex:
      (a)   the term "Category" means category of items to be
            financed out of the proceeds of the Advance as set forth
            in paragraph 3 of the Government's request;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
            respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
            required for the project preparation activities to be
            financed out of the proceeds of the Advance; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
            equivalent to U.S.$150,000 to be withdrawn from the
            Advance and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
            paragraph 3(a) of this Annex.
2.    Except IDA shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Annex.
3.    After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to IDA that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special
Account may be made as follows:
      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Government
            for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate
            amount of the Authorized Allocation, IDA shall, on
            behalf of the Government, deposit in the Special Account
            such amount or amounts out of the proceeds of the
            Advance as the Government shall have requested.
Page  2
      (b)   The Government shall furnish to IDA requests for
            replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals
            as IDA shall specify.  On the basis of such requests.
            IDA shall deposit into the Special Account such amounts
            out of the proceeds of the Advance as shall be required
            to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
            exceeding-the amount of payments made out of the Special
            Account for eligible expenditures.  Each such deposit
            shall be made by IDA in the respective equivalent
            amount, as shall have been justified by the evidence
            supporting the request for such deposit furnished
            pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Annex.
4.    For each payment made by the Government out of the Special
Account for which the Government requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3(b) of this Annex, the Government shall furnish to IDA
prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other
evidence as IDA shall reasonably request, showing that such payment
was made for eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
            Annex, no further deposit into the Special Account-shall
            be made by IDA when either of the following situations
            first arises:
      (i)   IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals
            of the Advance proceeds should be made directly by the
            Government; or
      (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Advance shall be
            equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
            Authorized Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal of the Advance proceeds remaining
            unwithdrawn shall follow such procedures as IDA shall
            specify by notice to the Government.  Such further
            withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
            that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
            remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
            date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
            making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any
Amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4
of this Annex, the Government shall, promptly upon notice from IDA,
deposit into the Special Account or, if IDA shall so request, refund
to IDA an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  No further deposit by IDA
into the Special Account shall be made until the Government has made
such deposit or refund.
7.    IDA shall have determined at any time,that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Government shall,
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount
which will be added to the unwithdrawn amount of the Advance.
