OFFWiI A
oc-UMEN TS
CREDIT NUMBER 1873 ET
Development Credit Agreerment
(Seventh Education Project)
between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   j, 1988


﻿0                           I;
CREDIT NUMBER 1873 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       0a,4, 1988, between
PEOPLE'S ,DEMOCRATIC REPUBL C OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS* the Borrower, having'- satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested. the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has received a stat()ment dated Novem-
ber 27, 1987 from the ,Borrower setting forth the actions to be
carried out for,the long-term development of the Borrower's educa-
tion'system (the Statement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree,as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,' 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this*Agreement.
.ection 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower!s Ministry of Education;
(b) "PMO" means the Project 'Management Office within MOE
referred to in Part 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)  "CHE" means the Borrower's Commission for Higher Educa-
tion;
(d) "EMPDA" means the Educational Materials Production and
Distribution Agency within MOE;


﻿-2-
(e) "SCMS" means the School Construction and Maintenance
Service within MOE;
(f) "AAU" means Addis Ababa University;
(g) "AU" means Asmara University;
(h) "AUA" means Alemaya University of"Agriculture;
(i) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association,to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters oand telexes dated June 24, 1987,
June 26, 1987 and July 7, 1987 between the Borrower and the
Association; and
(j) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend 'to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth\o, referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifty-three million Speci\al Drawing Rights
(SDR 53,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credi' may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance wi,th the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The


﻿-3-
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Pre-
paration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date;
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the,Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
,ixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account-or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in/ he territory of, the
Borrower;"and (iii) in' the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of' the General Conditions or in
such other eligible cui rency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) ptr annum on the principal amount- of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and* September 15 in each year.
Section 2.01. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing March 15, 1998 and ending September 15, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
September 15, 2007 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrow4r's gross national procdct M
caRita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due


﻿-4-
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each-such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the, Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to "the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower having declared the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
reiterates its commitment to such objectives and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project through MOE and CHE with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
-Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.                                 0
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied,' by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case'not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,


﻿-6-
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section. 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02, The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFIN                          21147
Addis Ababa


﻿-7
For the Association:
International Develöpment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿0
-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the'
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works,               18,500,000        100% of foreign
including worksi                            expenditures and
executed by fo-ce                           60% of local
account                                     expenditures
(2) Furniture                   1,900,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(3) Materials, equip-          13,400,000        100% of foreign
ment and vehicles                           expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultants'                6,200,000        60% of local
and specialists'                            expenditures for
services                                    services of con-
sultants and
specialists
domiciled within
the territory of
the Borrower and
100% of foreign
expenditures and
60% of local
expenditures for
services of other
consultants and
specialists


﻿-10-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated "           of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalentl       to be Financed
(5) Training and               3,200,000        100% of foreign
fellowships                                expenditures and
60% of C)pcal,
expenditures
(6) Preinvestment              1,500,000        100% of foreign
studies and                                expenditures and
pilot activities      o                    60% of local
expenditures
(7) Operating costs              700,000        60% of local
under Parts B.1                            expenditures         a
(a), (b) and (c)
of the Project
(8) Incremental                  160,000        60% of local    a
Project admin-                             expenditures.
istration
expenses
(9) Refunding of                 440,000        Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated             a 7,010,000
TTAL                 53,000,000
2.   For the purposes ofothis Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect Cof payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve middle and
higher level manpower training, to ensure the quality sand equity
of the Borrower's 1-ducation system, and to strengthen its
administration and management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject  to such
modifications therpeof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Manpower Development
1.   Agricultural Education
(a) Establishment of a Faculty of Forestry Resources at
Alemaya University of Agriculture (AUA), the construction,
furnishing and equipping of classroom, laboratory, and workshop
and administrative facilities.
(b) Expansion of the post-graduate programs at AUA for a
maximum intake of 50 students per year and the construction,
furnishing and equipping of classroom and housing facilities.
(c) Construction, furnishing and equipping of classroom,
laboratory and staff and student housing facilities at AUA.
(d) Establishment of a Department of Arid Zone Agriculture
at the Faculty of Sciences at Asmara University (AU) and the
construction, furnishing and equipping of classroom,
administration and housing facilities.
(e) Construction, rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping
of facilities at Ambo and Jimma Junior Colleges of Agriculture and
improvement of their curricula.'
2.   Engineering Education
Establishment of a Mechanical Engineering Department and an
Industrial Engineering Department and strengthening of the Geology
Department at AU and construction, furnishing and equipping of
classroom, administration and housing facilities.


﻿- 13 -
3.   Post-graduate Programs
(a) Renovation of equipment and construction of staff
housing for existing post-graduate programs at Addis Ababa
University (AAU).
(b) Establishment at AAU of high level accounting and
management programs for,about 30 post-graduate students per year
and the provision of equipment and textbooks.
(c) Establishment of short-cycle post-graduate programs at
AAU and AUA.
4.   Teachiir Training
(a) Construction, furnishing and equipping of instructional
facilities for training teacher degree candidates at AAU and AU.
(b) Construction, furnishing and equipping of instructional
facilities and the provision of mass media and operational support
for the Department of Adult Education and six teacher training
institutes for in-service training of about 1,500 primary eachers
per year and for summer upgrading courses.
Part B:   Quality and Equity Improvement
1.   General Education
(a) Development of a science curriculum and construction and
equipping of laboratories and workshops at about 28 experimental
schools.
(b) Enrichment of instructional methods and training of
visiting teams of expert teachers and training of about 200
inspectors.
(c) Expansion of the production and distribution of
textbooks to the school system and the general public.
(d) Construction of a warehouse and related office
facilities for the Education Materials Production and Distribution
Agency (EMPDA).
(e) Furnishing and equipping of about 34 higher secondary
schools for practical courses on the basis of the criteria set
forth in Annex 1 to this Schedule.


﻿-14-
2. /Higher Education
(a) Library development at 'about 9 higher educational
institutions.
(b) Operational improvement of the Ethiopian School Leaving
Certificate Examination.
3.   Basic Education
Establishment ofU about 100 rural community education
facilities,' on the basis of the criteria set forth in Annex 2 to
this Schedule, each consisting of a primary school, a classroom
and a workshop for adult education, and staff housing.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.   Strengthening of MOE's Office of Planning and External
Relations Services, Project Management -Office, Professional
Training Center and SCMS.
2.   Strengthening of CHE.in the areas of* policy development-and
management capability.
3.   Strengthening of CHE in, the areas of project preparation and
implementation capability thro-gh assistance to its project
implementation unit.
Part -D:  Pre-Investment Studies and Pilot Activities
Studies in fields to be agreed with IDA, such as accounting,
modern information technology, maintenance practices in higher
educational institutions, women in development and alternative
training systems, leading to pilot activities.
The Project is expected to be completed by. March 31, 1994.


﻿- 15 -
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2
Criteria for Selecting Higher Secondary
Schools to be Equipped and Furnished
The Borrower shall select higher secondary schools for
receiving equipment and furniture according to the following
criteria:
1.   The Borrower shall give first priority to schools which
received incomplete equipment and furniture under previous
projects financed by the Association, as set forth in a list of
such schools to be furnished to the Association by June 30, 1988.
2.   The Borrower shall give next priority to schools which
are functioning as higher secondary schools ,but which have no or
inadequate equipment and furniture, as identified by the
pedagogical animation teams during their field work.
3.   In order to determine these priorities, the Borrower
shall take into consideration the following:
(a) schools which are totally unequipped and unfurnished;
,(b) schools equipped and furnished under previous projects
financed by the Association at which the equipment and furniture
have served their useful life;
(c) schools which are not suitably equipped and furnished
for the use of the present curricula; and
(d) schools which have been upgraded from low.er secondary
schools to higher secondary schools.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2,..
Criteria for Location of Primary Schools
In order to promote equitable distribution of educational
opportunities through, the provision of educational facilities to
school age children and.adults living in economically-deprived and
under-privileged areas, the Borrower shall locate primary schools
according to the following criteria:
1,   Preference shall, be given to communities of low economic
development or rural areas where remote access or inadequate
organization make full community.participation impractical.
2:   Priority for construction shall be given to, those locations
where . primary school, participation rates are below the
national average.
3.  Actual building sites shall be determined by the peasant
association in the selected locations, using directives of
MOE.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.   The Borrower shall: (a) maintain within MOE the Project
Management Office (PMO) which shall be responsible for liaison
with the Association and 'with all appropriate authorities of the
Borrower, including CHE, for the carrying out of the Project and
which shall have adequate powe(s, responsibilities and functions
to coordinate execution of the Project, including, inter alia, the
services furnished by consultants; (b) employ a project manager, a
coordinator, an engineer and an accountant, whose experience and
qualifications shall be acceptable to the Association; and
(c) furnish to the PMO adequate funds and manpower resources to
carry out its responsibilities.
2.   (a) The Borrower shall, by April 30 of each year during
execution of the Project, furnish through the PMO to the
Association for review and comment a draft annual work program
-regarding the Project, each such work program to include: (i) a
review of implementation in the current year; (ii) a detailed
description of the work to be carried out in the forthcoming year;
and (iii) a proposed budget for the forthcoming year.
(b) The Association shall, within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the draft annual work program, comment on such work
program.
(c) The Borrower shall, by October 31 of each year during
execution of the Project, furnish through the PMO to the
Association a copy of the final annual work program for the
forthcoming year, each such work program to take into account the
comments made by the Association and the achievements of the prior
year.
Post-graduate Programs
4.   The Borrower shall: (a) furnish to the Association for review
and comLtent the detailed plans for the short-cycle post-graduate
programs to be established at AAU and AUA under Part A (3)(c) of
the Project, including the plans for monitoring and evaluation of
such courses by the Borrower; and (b) during each year of
execution of the Project, monitor and evaluate such masters level
courses taking into account the comments of the Association.


﻿- 18.-
Enrollment at Alemaya University of,:Agriculture (AUA)
5.   The Borrower shall,take all measures necessary to ensure that
the annual enrollment of new undergraduate students at AUA does
not exceed manpower demand for each year of enrollment.
Fellowships
6., The Borrower shall, by May31 of each year during execution
of.the Project, furnish to the Association for review.and comment
the, schedule of fellowships proposed to be awarded, together with
the detailed, list of fellowship candidates and.their proposed
training programs.
Revolving Fund for Textbooks
7.   The Borrower shall, by June 30,: 1988, es.tablish and
thereafter maintain a revolving fund to facilitate the production
and distribution of textbooks pursuant. to Part B.1 (c) of the
Project, such revolving fund to be established and operated on the
basis of .arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Maintenance
8.   The Borrower shall: .(a). by ,May 31, 1989, carry out a study on
the methods to improve its maintenance system for higher education
facilities; (b) by August 31, 1989, furnish to the Association for
reiew and comment the conclusions and recommendations of such
study; and (c) thereafter implement, as appropriate, the
recommendations of such study taking into account the comments of
the Aqsociation.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Ethiopia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost up to the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $12,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided, however, that civil works for which no responsive bids
have been received may be carried out by SCMS by force account.
2.   Furniture, equipment and construction materials estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
3.   Furniture for Part B.3 of the Project may be procured under
contracts awarded directly to regional furniture production units.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿-20-
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Assbciation prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the -Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required.to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be furnished' to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant td*paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of' 'statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 and shall be employed in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means ,an amount equiva-
lent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association  shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Catego-


﻿- 22 -
ries, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreepent; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal 'from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on,deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 23 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
0
hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the rchives of the Internationai
Development Assgca on.
45,)
FOR SECRETARY,.,
I)I
G                  G


