Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 1)622-TA Type: (PCR)
BARQUERO, / X31757 / T9 017/ OEDD1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1056-TA)
MAY 4, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Del.artment
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1         =            TSh
Year                      TSh
1977                      7.94
1978                      7.41
1979                      8.22
1980                      8.18
1981                      8.37
1982                      9.33
1983                     12.53
1984                     18.19
1985                    45.26
1986                    46.06
1987                    90.49
1988                    122.49
1989                    136.72
1990                    199.44
1991                    200.10
GLOSSARY
CURE               Coordinating Unit for Research and Education (MOE)
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
D.Kr.              Danish Kroner
GOT                Government of Tanzania
NEC                National Examinations Council
OED                Operations Evaluations Department (IBRD)
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit (PMO)
PMO                Prime Minister's Office
TCRS               Tanganyika Christian Relief Services
TES                Tanzania Elimu Supplies
UPE                Universal Primary Education
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Oirectowt.eurwl
Opertimns Evalatim
May 4, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on TANZANIA
Seventh Education Proiect (Credit 1056-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on TANZANIA - Seventh Education Project (Credit 1056-TA)n
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1056-TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Dor lb.
Preface  ....        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...... .  .  .  .  .    .          i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . .          .  .  .  . . . . . . .   ...  1
Project Background  . .         .      .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .    1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . o  . .             .     2
Project Design and Organization            . . . . . . .   .           r   3
Project Implementation  . . . . .  .      .  .  .     . . . . . . . .  .  .    4
Major Results of the Project  .. . . . . .o   .   ... .   .   .   .        6
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  .  .    7
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . .          . .  . .  . .  . . . . . . . .   8
Borrower's Performance  . . . .        .    .&o  . .   . .  . .   .   . o    11
Project Relationship  . . 9 . .    .  . .  . . . . . . . . . .  .  .   12
Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .    .    12
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .  13
III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Related Credits   . . . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . . .   . . . .  24
Project Time-Table  . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Loan Disbursements  . ...    e   ........ * .**. .   .                    26
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursemer.t    . . . . . . . . . .  26
Planned and Actual Completion Dates of
Project Components  .........              ..     ......     ..   27
Project Costs   .   *                                           . . . .  28
Project Financing   . . . . . ****. *  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Allocstion of Credit Proceeds          . .. .     **......    . ...  30
Direct Benefit of the Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Compliance with Credit Covenants  ...**9. .*    ........   34
Staff In-put by Stages of Project Cycle   ... .. . . . . . . . .  35
Mission Data by Stage of Project  .        ...        ..*..    36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1056-TA)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Seventh Education Project
in Tanzania, for which Cr. 1056-TA in the amount of US$25,000,000 equivalent was
approved on July 29, 1980, by the Board of Executive Directors of the
International Development Association. The Government of Denmark, through the
Danish International Development Association (DANIDA) provided a grant of Danish
Kroner 115,000,000 million (US$20 million equivalent) for financing part of the
project. The Credit was officially closed on December 31, 1990, four years after
the planned closing date. In spite of persistent delays, most of the project
elements were implemented, in accordance with revised project targets agreed
between the Borrower, DANIDA and IDA in 1984. $1.35 million equivalent of the
Credit was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of the
Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluative Summary, Parts I and III), and
the Borr Ter (Part II).
Arrangements for the PCR were initiated during the last supervision mission
in April, 1991 and completed following a Completion Mission in August, 1991. The
Report is based inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 2782-TA)
dated June 2, 1980, the Development Credit Agreement (Dated September 26, 1980);
the Joint Financing Agreement between the Governments of Tanzania and Denmark and
IDA (dated September 26, 1980); supervision reports; correspondence between the
Borrower and IDA; internal Bank memoranda; comments from DANIDA; progress reports
by the Borrower's implementation agency; and interviews with Bank staff and
Tanzanian Government officials who were closely associated with the project at
the time the project was initiated and implemented.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1056-TA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i)    The project's objectives were to:  (a) expand access to primary education
in hitherto underserved areas and to improve the quality of primary education by
providing instructional materials and expanding the output of qualified teachers;
(b) alleviate manpower bottlenecks by expanding enrollment in upper secondary
schools (Forms V and VI), and in that context to expand female enrollment in
upper secondary schools; and (c) enhance the capacity of key parastatal and
government agencies to manage the sector. In the socio-economic context of the
late 1970's when the project was initiated, those objectives were timely and
consistent with government's overriding policy concerns of:   (a) promoting
regional as well as gender equity in primary education; and (b) ensuring that
educational quality was not jeopardized ae a result of the massive expansion of
primary education under UPE. It was also consistent with Government strategy of
selective expansion of secondary education in line with manpower requirements.
Implementation ExNerience:
ii)   The main variance between planned and actual implementation weres (a) The
implementation period was extended from six to ten years, through two extensions
of the Closing Date; and (b) the scope of the project was reduced in 1984, partly
in response to the economic difficulties facing the country at the time, and
partly to the depreciation of the Danish grant which rendered the contribution
of the Danish Government less than half its original value in dollar terms (the
Danish grant of DRr. 115 million was worth about US$20 million when the Credit
was signed in 1980, but had depreciated to the equivalent of about US$10 million
in 1984). Also, changes in Denmark's foreign assistance policy toward Tanzania
gave priority to rehabilitation and consolidation of existing iavestment rather
than establishing in new institutions which would have added to the Government's
recurrent budget burden. As a result of this policy change, only $4.5 million
of the $10 million Danish contribution (after the depreciation) was earmarked for
the project. The balance ($5.5 million) was reallocated for general budgetary
support and for other Danish-assisted operations in Tanzania. The major factors
that explained the unusually long implementation period (4 years above appraisal
estimates) included: (a) a sharp deterioration in the macro-economic situation
in the country, resulting in a great scarcity of construction materials, fuel and
spare parts and (b) high inflation coupled with major devaluations of the local
currency, that forced many of the original small contractors to abandon
construction.   It took almost four years to negotiate contracts for their
completion; and (c) generally weak project management resulting in part from the
existence of two separate units for project implementation. Eventually, toward
the end of the implementation period, the Government signed a one-year contract
(until December, 1989), subsequently extended by a further one year to December



- iv -
1991, with a non-Governmental Agency (the Tanganyika Christian Relief Service
(TCRS)) to complete the schools. As a result of its experience and overseas
connections, TCRS was able to import building materials in bulk, thereby reiucing
costs and expediting implementation (Para. 9).
Resultas
3) Considering tho unusually long implementation period of ten years, and the
extremely adverse economic and financial climate of the period, the project's
results in strictly quantitative terms were quite satisfactory (Para. 13). One
of the objectives of the project was to expand access to hitherto underserved
areas in four remote districts of the country.   This objective was met, or
exceeded in some respects (Para. 13). Another benefit of the project lay in its
contribution in alleviating critical manpower shortages by expanding access to
upper secondary schools. This resulted in the addition of about 7200 Forms V
and VI places, about 4Z above the appraisal target.  Similarly, 9 secondary
schools with a combined enrollment of 6,000 student-places were rehabilitated,
and their facilities for science teaching upgraded and reequipped, as planned.
A related objective -- that of expanding female enrollment in secondary schools
was also achieved.   The number of female secondary students exceeded the
appraisal target by 250%.
4) However, there is little indication that the quality of primary education has
been improved as originally intended. Also, the project's record in respect to
enhancing the capacity of key parastatal and sector institution, was negligible
(Para. 13).  While the project made some contribution in strengthening the
National Examinations Council (new physical facilities, staff training and
printing and related examinations processing equipment), due to changes in
Tanzanian Government policy regarding parastatals, the Tanzania Elimu Supplies
is being phased out, and the project's assistance (five large warehouses, staff
trained under the project, vehicles) has yet to be put to good use. The research
unit (CURE), has been somewhat strengthened with the additional training provided
to its staff, but its research output is of rather limited quality and quantity,
largely because of inadequate budgetary support and lack of a well thought-out
research agenda.
SustainabilitX:
5) Overall the project is likely to be sustained, although at a modest level of
sustainability. The project contains some of the features identified by OED as
essential ingredients for sustainability, including government commitment. The
principal challenge to the project's sustainability is not whether, but at what
level of quality and efficiency the project institutions will be sustained. And
to a large extent this will be determined by the level of resources -- public and
private -- available to the sector on a sustained basis to provide an acceptable
level of essential school in-puts, as well as for the maintenance of buildings
and equipment. Largely as a result of the Economic Recovery Program initiated
beginning in 1986, the prospects for this is much improved.  After a steep
decline during the late 1970. and early 1980s, real per capita expenditures for
the social sectors have stabilized, and have even begun to increase in real
terms. The government has also begun to increase the level of cost recovery for
social services in the form of modest school fees paid by parents.  At the



- v -
secondary school level, almost two-thirds of the secondary schools are now run
by NGOs, thereby reducing the G,veznment's recurrent cost burder l These policies
are expected to continue at an even more accelerated pace, tbtus increasing the
potential for the sustaiL,ability of the project institutionus at a modest level
of qualit- and efficiency.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6) Lessons derived from implementation of the p ojeat include the following
(Para 19):
a) The project brings to the fore once again the difficult question of
what the Bank's position should be when a project faces persistent and
virtually intractable implementation impediments that are clearly beyond
the scope of the project entity or even the sector as a whole. In this
particular case, the Bank together with the Government and the co-
financier (DANIDA) undertook a "tripartite" review of the project's scope
and decided to scale down the project. But this proved to be inadequate,
as the so-called "scaling down" turned out to be merely a modest reduction
in the number of facilities to be constructed, and not a thorough redesign
of the project, such as for instance, dropping altogether an entire
project element (such as the primary school component). The lesson to be
derived from the implementation of this project is that when the Bank is
faced    with  a  situation  wher2  a  project  is  facing  significant
implementation impediments arisit.g from a major deterioration in the
financial and economic condition of the country, the Bank should stand up
to the challenge, and consistent with its policy on this matter, as a
minimum, redesign the project in consultation with the Borrower.
Depending on the circumstances, the Bank might also consider whether the
project ought to be discontinued entirely, should the Bank and the
Borrower conclude that the economic and financial situation in the country
has changed so drastically from the time the project was appraised.
b)   Another lesson to be derived from this project pertains to the
valuable, and even critical, role that NGOs could potentially play in
school construction. This was especially the case, as in this project,
when the construction industry had come to a virtual halt on account of
the shari  deterioration of the economy.   The economic crisis had a
particularly devastating effect on the construction industry which
traditionally relies heavily on imported building materials, for which
foreign exchange was critical. Contracts for primary school classrooms
were awarded to small local contractors (as these vere not attractive to
foreign contractors and ICB procedures were not applicable). When the
economic situation deteriorated, many of these small contractors were
forced to abandon their sites as they were unable to obtain the necessary
construction  materials  and  spare  parts.    Toward  the  end  of  the
implementation period, in October 1988, the Bank and the Borrower agreed
to award the construction of the uncompleted or remaining sites to an NGO,
the Tanganyika Christian Refugee Service (TCRS).   The consensus among
Tanzanian government and education officials with whom the completion
Mission discussed the matter is that the involvement of TCRS was a



- vi -
critical element in getting the primary school component completed.
(Paras. 9 and 19(b)).
c)  Further, the experience derived from the project confirms previous
Bank experience that the design of Bank projects should be kept very
simple and unencumbered with too many and diverse components that often
render a project too complex and unwieldy.  In this particular case, the
project's objectives were laudable and justifiable as they quite correctly
identified tne critical needs of the sector as perceived at the time
(Paras. 4 and 6). The SAR contained some 13 project elements (including
primary school expansion, promoting equ_tv in access to primary school,
expansion and qualitative improvement .-    ondary education, expanding
and improving secondary school science tea-aing, ecc.). To make matters
worse, the primary school components were under a different implementing
agency, as re'sponsibility for primary education was at the time under the
Prime Minister's Office and not under the Ministry of Education.   In
retrospect, it would have been more prudent and justified to respond to
those needs through successive projects, rather than to try to address the
identified needs through one all-inclusive project. The lesson that this
project reinforces is that project deeign should be as simple as possible,
if possible under only one agency. In short, Bank performance in terms of
project design, restructuring, and to a lesser extent in supervision, was
below expectation.   Supervision suffered largely because supervision
missions, particularly during the latter part of the implementation period
were too occupied with the new project under development sometimes at the
expense of this project. Also, in retrospect supervision missions could
have played a more effective function if they had taken a more proactive
role in the resolution of implementation obstacles (Paras. 17-18).
d) As indicated in the Government's contribution to this report (Part II,
Paras. 25 and 42), even though the project became effective in December,
1980, construction work did not start until five years later in 1985-86.
In addition to the adverse economic conditions of the period, the reasons
for the long delay in starting construction included delays in the
completion of standard school designs, lengthy and cumbersome tendering
procedures of the Government, shortages and frequent turn-over of
technical staff at the Project Office, inadequate transportation
facilities, and lack of fuel to transport building materials, particularly
to remote rural areas where the primary schools were to be built.  In
retrospect, the Bank and the Government were far too optimistic than was
warranted under the circumstances in respect to the logistical and
implementation arrangements required for carrying out the project as
planned. The Government's contribution to the report rightly concludes
that the lesson to be derived from the implementation of this project is
that constraints such as those mentioned above should be considered
carefully and realistically at the time a project is prepared, appraised
and launched.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1056-TA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW PROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Namet                    Seventh Education Project
Credit Number:           1056-TA
RVP Unit:                Africa Region
Country:                 Tanzania
Sector:                  Population and Human Resources
Subsector:               Education
B.    Project Background
1.    Sector Development Objectives.  Since Independence in 1961, Tanzania has
turned to education with an ever increasing conviction that development of its
human resources forms an integral part of national development. At the time of
Independence, Tanzania had a very small number of nationals with post-secondary
education. High priority was therefore attached to the training of at least a
minimum cadre of middle and high-level manpower. Manpower requirements were
projected over long periods and those projections constituted an integral part
of the country's development plans. At the time the project was launched, the
Government had just initiated its third Five-Year Plan, having already completed
with mixed success two Five-Year Plans (1964-69 and 1969-74). For the Third
Five-Year plan period (1976-81), the Government had anticipated high real rates
of GDP growth, averaging 6Z p.a. However, this did not materialize for a var:.ety
of reasons, in particular due to an unusually low prices for the countiy's
principal expor-s crop (coffee), and the heavy drain on public expenditure brot ght
about by the war effort on tehalf of Ugandan liberation fighters. In the {ace
of deteriorating performance of the economy, and in particular in light of an
acute shortage of foreign exchange reserves, in 1979 the Government was forcad
to revise down,-r;rds its estimates of sectoral growth rates as well as its
estimates of rral growth of GDP for the balance of the Plan period from 6% to
4.5% p.a.  It was in the context of this adverse economic climate that the
project was designed and launched.
2.    Policy Context.  The Arusha Declaration and the educational manifesto,
Education for Self Reliance provided the conceptual foundations for the Second
Five-Year  Plan  (1969-74).    The  strategies  for  economic  and  educational
development enunciated in those policy documents shifted priority in favor of
Universal Primary Education (UPE), which was to be achieved by 1989.   In
addition, a large program was launched to eradicate illiteracy. These efforts
resulted in a dramatic increase of enrollment in primary schools which grew
rapidly from 1 million in 1972 to 3 million in 1978. By November 1977, virtually



-2-
all 8 year old children had been admit4sd into the first grade of primary school
(Standard I). D spite this focus on UPE and mass-oriented education, the target
of reaching self-sufficiency in higher- and middle-level manpower was retained.
After successfully universalizing Standard I intake in 1977, the Ministry of
Education established an internal committee for Educational Consolidation to take
stock of major sectoral issues and constraints a..sing from the massive growth
of the education and training system. The Commirtee was successful in providing
much needed guidanct and directives on a variety of educational issues such as
text-books, examinations, teacher training, and promotion of regional and gender
equity.
3.    Linkates BR.een Project.  Sector and Macro Policy Objectives.            The
project's objectives were an integral part of the country's overall strategy
which accorded priority to human resources devElopment. The project was likewise
successful in assessing to the main sector concerns identified during project
preparation. The project included specific interventions aimed at addressing
these concerns, in particular, promotion of regional and gender equity and
expansion of higher secondary aducations (Para. 4).
C.    Proilec  obiectives and Description:
4.    Proiect Objectives. Following the massive expansion of primary education,
the Government had two overriding concerns: first, to promote regional as well
as gender equity for access for primary education, and secondly, to ensure
educational quality was not   jeopardized in the course of the quantitative
expansion of the school system.   In line with these concerns, the project's
specific objectives were: (a) to improve the quality of primary education by
increasing the supply of qualified teachers and instructional materials; (b) to
expand access to primary education in hitherto undeserved rural areas; (c) to
improve female participation rates and to alleviate critical manpower bottlenecks
by expanding enrollment in upper secondary schools; and (d) to enhance the
capacity of key parastatal and government agencies to manage the sector.
5.    Proiect ComDonents.   As appraised, the project included the following
components:
i)    Primary  Education.    Construction  of  360  new  primary  school
classrooms, with related office/storage and sanitary facilities and staff
Louses, in four hitherto underserved districts. The four districts were:
Monduli and Kiteto districts in Aruisha region, and Kilwa and L'tdi Rural
districts in Lindi Region;
ii)   Secondarv Education.  Construction, furnishing and equipping of: 23
new Forms V and VI classrooms (and staff housing) at 10 existing secondary
schools; two new secondary schools (at Ngara and Dodoma); a Demonstration
Seccndary School at the University's Department of Education; and
financing of 100 staff-yeare of expatriate volurteer-type science
teachers.
iii) Teacher Training. Construction, furnishing and equipping of a new
primary school teacher training college in Zanz:..bar (including staff
houses and boarding facilities) with a total capacity of 400 places; and



-3-
rehabilitation of an existing primary teacher training college (Kwame
Nkrumah), also in Zanzibar;
iv)    Improvement of Educational Qualitv.  Teaching materials, classroom
equipment aitd furniture for Primary echools (at an average base cost of
$250,000 per district)i textbooks,  science equipment  and   classroom
furniture for Forms V and VI in 9 secondary schools: science equipment,
textbooks and furnishing for four primary school teacher training
colleges; and rehabilitation and equipping of science laboratories at Dar
es Salasm technical ollege;
v)    Strengthening Institutional Capability.
a)    Tanzania Elimu SuRvlies  (TES):   Naw warehouses,  trucks,
related transport and storage equipment, as well as local and
overseas training (10 staff-years) for TES to enhance its overall
capability and efficiency to procure, store and distribute
textbooks, instructional materials and equipmen';
b)    National Examinations CoLuacil (NEC): Technical assistance (12
staff-years), local and overseas training (32 staff-years), data
processir.g equipmert as well as an office building for the NEC to
strengthen its capability to develop and administer a more reliable
system of examinations at the post-primary and post-secondary
levels; and
c)    Coordinating Unit for Research and Evaluation (CURE):  Local
and overseas training (36 staff-years) to upgrade the professional
knowledge and research skills of education sector staff from the
Inspectorate and the newly created CURE; and
vi)     Studies and Evaluation:  Short-term consultants (for a total of 6
rtaff-years) and a portion of operating costs for undertaking studies of
a pre-investment, project monitoring and evaluative nature.
D.    Prolect Desien and Orxanization
6.    The project's conceptual foundation reflected a clear and balanced analysis
of the issues facing the country in the area of human resources development. The
project's central thrust, particularly expansion of secondary education and
quantitative improvement of primary education (coupled with expansion in remote
regions) was in fact a continuation of the Bank's previous assistance in these
areas under earlier projects, two of whicel (the Fourth and Fifth Education
Projects) were still under implementation when the project was under preparation
(Part III, Table 1).  Two other projects -- The First and Second Education
Project, Credit 45-TA and Credit 149-TA, respectively -- both of which were
already completed at the time the project was identified in 1978, had also
focused on secondary school expansion and primary school teacher training. Thus
by concentrating on these same areas, the project was attempting to further
consolidate MOE's efforts, thereby contributing to their sustainability.



7.    The project's overall objective was thus in clear conformity with the
country's overall developmental strategy; its timing was likewise appropriate.
In retrospect, however, the project design was for too ambitious in terms of the
number and types of institutions that were included for assistance, and the
physical dispersion of especially the primary schools over wide and inaccessible
districts of the country. The difficulties inherent in implementing a large and
rather complex project was felt quite early in the implementation period as
evidenced by the efforts of the Bank and DANIDA (co-financier) to scale down the
scope of the project by reducing the number of institutions to be established
under the project (Paras 9-10).
E.    P-oiect Implementation
8.    Critical Variances in Proiect ImRlementation.  The following factors were
responsible for the variance between planned and actual implementation: (a) the
implementation period was extended from 6 to 10 years; (b) the scope of the
project was reduced, dropping in particular two new secondary schools (one
planned at Ngara, and the other, a Demonstration School planned at the
University), and a nww PTTC planned in Zanzibar.  Also, the primary school
component was reduced by approximately 120 student places.
9.    The implementation period was extended formally first in 1986 by two years
to December 31, 1988 Ln view of the acute economic and financial situation in the
country which had particularly adverse effect on sectors such as the construction
industry which depended heavily on foreign exchange for importing construction
materials and spare parts.   The situation in respect to availability of
construction material improved somewhat when the Bank established a Special
Account in February, 1985, with an initial deposit of US$ 300,000 (increased to
US$ 1 million in October, 1987). The establishment of the Special Account helped
in particular the non-primary school components of the project, such as those
involved with the upgracing and equipping of secondary schools, as those
components required an infusion of foreign exchange for procurement of textbooks
and laboratory equipments.   In addition to foreign exchange shortages, the
primary school component had been experiencing persistent delays also on account
of the geographical dispersion of the school sites over wide and remote areas,
coupled with inadequate and underqualified supervisory staff and weak logistical
arrangements.    As  the  economic  and  financial  situation  in  the  country
deteriorated in the early 1980's, many of the contractors had abandoned their
sites and construction was virtually at a standstill. In an effort to get the
primary school component back on track, the Government and the Bank decided in
1988 to award the primary school construction program to a non-Governmental
organization (NGO), the Tanganyika Christian Relief Service (TCRS), a local NGO
aff Lliated with the Lutheran World Federation. As a result of its experience and
overseas connections, TCRS was able to import building materials in bulk, thereby
reducing costs and expediting implementation. To allow TCRS to complete the
primary schools, the project's Closing Date was formally extended by one year to
December 31, 1989 and subsequently by an additional year to December 31, 1990.
10.   The scope of the project was reduced for the following reasons: (a)  the
devaluation of the Danish Kroner diminished significantly the Danish financial
contribution to the project.  When the project was signed in late 1980, the
Danish grant to the project was Danish Kroner 115 million (equivalent to US$ 20



million at the exchange rate prevailing at the time). By April 1984, the value
of the Danish contribution in dollar terms had decreased by almost 50X to about
$10 million; (b) a change in Danish foreign assistance policy to Tanzania that
gave a much higher priority to rehabilitation and consolidation of existing
facilities rather than establishing new facilities (including schools) which
would entail additional recurrent cost burdens for the Government. At a joint
meeting of representatives of the Tanzania Government, IDA and DANIDA held in
Copenhagen in April, 1984, the question of reducing the scope of the project was
discussed at length. The DANIDA representative advised the Government delegation
and the Bank (preliminary discussion and exchange of correspondence between the
three parties had already taken place before the Copenhagen meeting) that the
contribution of DANIDA would be reduced to D. Kr. 44.55 million (US$ 4.5 million
equivalent), and that the balance (estimated at $5.5 million equivalent) would
be reallocated to other programs in Tanzania, including foreign exchange support.
In percentage terms, this represented a reduction in DANIDA' a contribution to the
project from 33Z of total project costs (at appraisal) to only 131. At that
meeting, agreements were also reached regarding the specific institutions that
were to be dropped.
11.   Prolect Risks.  In retrospect, the Appraisal Report was too optimistic in
its assessment of potential risks to project implementation. The only such risk
identified during project preparation and appraisal was the possibility of
"seasonal disruptions" to transportation of materials to small contractors. In
fact a number of other factors, some of which could not have been foreseen at the
time the project was identified and appraised, contributed to the long
implementation delays  (4 years above Appraisal estimates).   Some of the
unforeseen factors that led to implementation delays included: (a) sharp
deterioration in the macro-economic situation in the country, resulting in a
great scarcity of construction materials, fuel and spare parts; and (b) high
inflation coupled with major devaluations of the Tanzania currency, rendering
previously signed construction contracts impossible to implement. It took almost
four years (between 1985 and 1989) to negotiate construction contracts that took
into account the new value of the Tanzanian currency and the high inflation rates
prevalent  at the time.   By then many contractors had already abandoned
construction sites, and long delays had become inevitable. Only one firm of
international contractors that was responsible for the construction of the
National Examinations Council and the warehouses for books was able to remain on
the sites and complete the buildings, more or less as scheduled.
12.   Bank supervision missions were fielded half-yearly on a regular basis and
the missions reported almost routinely the lack of progress in implementation.
In retrospect, Bank supervision missions could have been more helpful had they
provided, to the extent that their schedule permits, direct assistance to
projects staff by working closely with them in such matters as, for instance,
revising construction contracts. With the departure of the DANIDA architects who
used to work in the PCU, it was already clear that what the project office needed
was more than recommendations; it required direct technical assitance on the
part of the Bank's supervision missions.  Eventually, toward the end of the
implementation period, in 1989, a Bank mission in fact provided direct assistance
to the Tanzanian PCU staff in revising construction contracts, as well as in
arranging with an NGO to complete the construction of primary schools.



-6-
F.    Major Results of the Prolect
13.   Prolect Objectives.       Considering the unusually long implementation
period (10 years), and the extremely adverse economic and financial climate of
the time, the project's results in strictly quantitative terms were quite
satisfactory. (i) As indicated in Para. 4, one of the project's main objectives
was to improve the quality of p_imary education by expanding the output of
qualified primary school teachers and by providing instructional materials. This
particular objective was met only to a limited extent: a new PTTC (planned to
be located in Zanzibar) had to be canceled when the scope of the project was
reduced (Paras. 8-9). Rehabilitation of an existing PTTC, Nkrumah PTTC, also in
Zanzibar, however, was undertaken as planned (albeit the delays). To compensate
(at least partially) for the deletion of the new PTTC, it had been agreed during
the Copenhagen "tripartite" meeting (Para. 10) to add 120 new places at the
Nkrumah PTTC. The additional facilities were completed substantially as agreed.
However, the PTTCs were provided with only a limited amount of instructional
materials; much of the textbooks and instructional materials procured under the
project was allocated to secondary schools. (ii) The second major objective of
the project, that of expanding access to primary school in hitherto undeserved
areas, was substantially met as planned.   At appraisal a total of 360 new
classrooms and related facilities (teachers' houses, stores/offices and sanitary
facilities) were planned in remote and underserved districts (Monduli and Kiteto
districts in Arusha region and Kilwa and Lindi rural districts in Lindi Region).
The target was scaled down to 280 classrooms when the scope of the project was
reduced in 1984 (paras. 8-9). At Project Completion 330 classrooms had been
built (or 10% above the revised target) in those four districts and in
neighboring Mtwara rural district. The number of teachers' houses, stores and
sanitary facilities (pit latrines) were also close to the revised targets (in the
case of storage/offices, the revised target was in fact exceeded by about 752).
(iii) The third objective of the project, that of expanding senior secondary
school enrollment (and in that context, female participation) in upper secondary
schools was also substantially met. In the ten secondary schools where new or
additional Forms V and VI classes/streams were added, the number of female
students increased from a total of 920 at appraisal to 3291 at completion (or two
and half times the planned Appraisal target of 1340). Similarly, nine secondary
schools were rehabilitated and their facilities for science teaching were
upgraded and reequipped, as planned. (iv) However, in respect to the fourth
objective of the project, that of enhancing the capacity of key parastatal and
government agencies, the project's achievement was inadequate. The project has
contributed in strengthening the National Examinations Council (in terms of staff
training, equipment, and physical facilities). However, due to government policy
changes to phase out parastatals, Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES), is no longer
expected to play a lead role in the procurement and distribution of textbooks and
other instructional materials, even though book warehouses were provided under
the project. With respect to studies financed under the project, the completion
mission was not able to find clear evidence (such as copies of the studies) that
the studies had been carried out.
14.   Prolect ImRact and Benefits.  The main project elements (improvement and
expansion of primary, secondary and teacher training) had been assisted under
three previous IDA projects (First, Second and Fourth Education Projects, Cr. 45-
TA, Cr. 149-TA, and Cr. 371-TA, respectively). The project thus complemented and



- 7 -
to some extent reinforced previous IDA assistance in these areas (Para. 6).
Perhaps the project's most significant benefit was in regard to expanding access
to four of the most remote districts in the country which hitherto had lagged
behind the nation in terms of provision of primary school facilities. Another
equally significant benefit lies in its contribution to alleviate critical
manpower bottlenecks by expanding access to upper secondary schools, through the
expansion of Forms V and VI and in strengthening science teaching (Para. 13).
In respect to the physical t.ivil works) aspects of the project, the Completion
Mission confirmed that classroom designs developed by the PCU for the primary
schools were sufficiently simple, affordable, and maximize the use of local
building materials.    As  a  result,  the designs  are being  replicated by
communities in various self-help school constructior schemes around the country.
This is a further benefit derived from the project.
G.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
15.   The project contains some of the factors identified by OED as important
indi_ators for the sustainability of education projects, including, government
commitment. As the institutions supported by the project are an integral part
of the country's educational system, government commitment and support in the
post-completion period, an important indicator for sustainability of education
projects, is also assured.' The principal challenge as regards to the project's
sustainability is not whether, but at what level of aualitv and efficiency the
project institutions will be sustained.  And to a large extent this will be
determined by the level of resources that will be available for the social
sectors as a whole and for education in particular from public and private
sources to provide on a sustained basis an acceptable level of essential school
in-puts (properly trained and qualified teachers, instructional materials,
laboratory equipment and supplies, etc.), as well as for maintenance of buildings
and equipment.   Largely as a result of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
initiated in 1986, the prospects for this are much improved now than they were
in the early 1980s.  After a steep decline during the late 1970's and early
19809, real per capita expenditures on the social sectors (including education)
were stabilized in the mid-1980's, and have even begun to increase in real terms
since the late 1980s. The Government has also begun to increase the level of
cost recovery for social services -- modest parental contributions (per child,
per school) have been introduced at the primary school level. The Government has
also been giving encouragement to non-governmental organizations to support
education; indeed, almost two-thirds of the secondary schools are now run by
NGOs. These policies are expected to continue at an even more accelerated pace,
thereby increasing the potential for the sustainability of the project
institutions at least at a modest level of quality and efficiency.
16.   The prospects for sustainability of two of the three sector institutions
assisted under the project  (Para.  13) is rather limited.   One of these
institutions (NEC) has benefitted from the assistance provided under the project
(for instance, all but five of the 23 staff that received additional professional
training overseas are still with NEC; the new headquarters built in part with
I The Sustainability of Investment Projects in Education OED, October 28, 1990.



- 8 -
project funds is properly utilized, as are the printing presses). However, data
processing equipment (with software) that was planned for the NEC as part of an
overall effort to introduce a partly electronically operating system has not been
utilized.   Nonethelese, the NEC is now involved in a much broader range of
examinations and assessment activities in the country, and is assuming an
indispensable function as a national center for student selection and educational
assessment generally. On the other hand, as already noted (Para. 13), the other
sector institution assisted by the project, Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES) is in
the process of being phased out as part of the Government's overall policy on
parastatals. The expensive, and rather over-designed book warehouses have yet
to be put to good use. The Completion Mission was assured that MOE is in the
process of formulating plans for the use of these warehouses.   The third
institution building effort provided under the project, CURE, was successful only
marginally. Further assistance to strengthen MOE's research capability is being
provided under a follow-up project.
H.    Bank Performance
17.   Maior Strengths and Weaknesses. Bank supervision missions were fielded at
regular intervals, especially during the first half of the implementation period
(1980-85) when the project was supervised from the Nairobi Office. Eight (8)
supervision missions were undertaken until the middle of 1985 when education
staff in the Nairobi office were reposted to Headquarters. Bank supervision
during that period, in terms of staff composition and continuity was
satisfactory.   After  1985,  nine  (9) supervision missions were sent from
Headquarters  (Table  11).   As most  of these missions were combined with
identification, preparation and appraisal of a follow-up project (Education
Rehabilitation Project), as noted in Part II of this report (prepared by the
Government), less than adequate time was devoted by Bank missions on supervision
of the project (Para. 50 (i)).  In retrospect, Bank performance in terms of
project design was too ambitious and unwieldy (Para. 7). The SAR contained some
13 different project elements, to be implemented by two separate and
uncoordinated Ministries, with many of the project sites scattered over large and
inaccessible partsi of the country. On the positive side, the Bank was helpful
in establishing a Project Account (denominated in dollars) at a time when the
country faced an acute foreign exchange constraint. Also on the positive side,
the Bank was helpful in facilitating a reputable NGO to take over the
implementation of the primary education component after it became clear that the
small private contrartors had defaulted due to circumstances beyond their control
on their contracts to complete construction of the primary school classrooms
(Para. 9).
18.    Also, IDA and the Government have not put in place a strong project
implementation unit capable of addressing all aspects of implementation
(engineering,  accounting,  project  management,  etc.).        The  fact  that
responsibility for project implementation was divided between two separate
ministries (Education and Local Government) made it even more difficult to evolve
a unified and strong implementing agency.  In retrospect,   as the depressed
economic and financial climate that prevailed during much of the supervision
period precludec a close and timely attention to removing implementation
bottlenecks on the part of the government, a more proactive role by the Bank's
supervision missions was called for. In other words, Bank supervision missions



-9-
might have been more effective if they had gone beyond their traditional function
of identifying implementation constraints to assist the PCU in resolving the
constraints. Also in retrospect, Bank supervision missions which were often also
given responsibility for the identification and preparation of a follow-up
operation, spent a disproportionate amount of their time and efforts on the new
operation, leaving little or no time to visit supervision sites or to provide
expertise in the resolution of implementation impediments (Para. 17).
19.   Lessons Learned.  For future projects the following lessons learned from
implementation of this project may be of value:
(a)   The project brings to the fore once again the difficult question of what
the Bank's position should be when a Bank-assisted project in a particular
sector faces virtually intractable implementation obstacles that are
clearly and unarguably beyond the control of that particular project
entity, or even the sector as a whole (education in this case). The first
half of the project's unusually long implementation period (1980-1990),
coincided with a period of serious economic crisis in the country,
characterized by declining per capita GDP,   inappropriate economic
policies, and in general a bleak economic and financial climate. As a
recent Bank Economic Report on Tanzania put it, "following rapid growth
during the mid-1960's and early 1970's, the Tanzanian economy began to
slow down in the mid-to-late 1970s.   Two major oil price increases,
fluctuating international prices for traditional export commodities,
variable weather conditions, the break-up of the East African Community
and the war with Uganda imposed a number of significant external shocks
during the conditions, the break-up of the East Africa community and the
War with Uganda imposed a number of significant external shocks during the
decade...By 1982 the economy was in a serious crisis, per capita GDP was
declining at about 3 percent per annum and the impressive gains achieved
in the preceding decade on education and health were being eroded..."2
To be sure, the Bank together with the Government and DANIDA (the co-
financing agency) undertook a "tripartite" review of the project's scope
and agreed to scale down the project.  But this proved to be clearly
inadequate, as the so-called "scaling down" turned out to be reducing
somewhat the number of facilities to be constructed rather than a thorough
re-designing of the project. Inevitably, even after the "scaling down",
the same impediments pe:tisted (lack of construction materials, shortage
of  foreign  exchange,  wv, k  project  management,  etc.).    Under  the
circumstances, a major redesigning of the project (for instance,
postponirg to a follow up project the entire primary education component,
which in any event was under a different Ministry), would have greatly
improved the situation, and reduced the implementation period. The lesson
to be derived from this experience is that when the Bank is faced with a
situation where a project is facing significant implementation impediments
arising from a major deterioration in the financial and economic
conditions of the country, the Bank should be firm in upholding its policy
2 Tanzania: Economic Report -- Toward Sustainable Development in the 1990s. World Bank,
June 1991, Chapter 1, Paras 1.2 and 13.



- 10 -
of redesigning the project to fit the new financial and economic
realities. Depending on the circumstances, the Bank might also conclude
whether the project ought to be discontinued entirely, should the Bank and
the Borrower agree that the economic and financial situation in the
country has changed so drastically from the time the project was
appraised, that discontinuing the project would be in the interest of the
Borrower and the Bank.
b)    Another lesson to be derived from this project pertains to the valuable,
and even critical, role that NGOs could potentially play in school
construction. This is especially the case, as in this project, where the
construction industry had come to a virtual halt on account of the sharp
daterioration of the economy The economic crisis had a devastating effect
especially on the construction industry which relies heavily on imported
building materials for which foreign exchange was very scarce.   The
establishment of a project account (in convertible currency) helped the
importation of some project elements (such as textbooks, laboratory
equipment, etc.) but was not of much help to small contractors who had
contracts for small primary schools in the remote districts of Arusha and
Lindi Regions.   Many of these contractors had in fact abandoned their
sites and most of the primary school construction program had come to a
standstill. Toward the end of the implementation period, in October 1988,
the Bank and the Government agreed to award contract for construction (as
well as furniture production and training of district building
supervisors) at all remaining primary school sites to an NGO, the
Tanganyika Christian Refugee Service (TCRS). Under a two-year contract
("Memo of Understanding") with the Government, TCRS arranged for direct
payment from the Bank to its overseas account for the procurement of
building materials and other related expenses and was able to complete the
construction of the remaining primary schools within the specified period.
Indeed TCRS "saved" money from its contract amount, and agreed with the
Government to build additional schools in Lindi. The Completion Mission
visited some of the schools constructed by TCRS in Arusha and Lindi and
found them on the whole of acceptable design and quality. The consensus
among Tanzanian officials and Bank staff with whom the Completion Mission
discussed the matter is that the involvement of TCRS was a critical
element in getting the primary school component completed.    The TCRS
experience reinforces the valuable contribution of NGOs in the
implementation of Bank projects (Para. 9).
(c)   Further, the experience det *ed from the project confirms previous Bank
experience that the design of Bank projects should be kept very simple and
unencumbered with too many and diverse components that often render the
project too complex and unwieldy. In this particular case, the project's
objectives were laudable and identified correctly the needs of the country
as perceived at the time (primary school equity, alleviating enrollment
bottlenecks in senior secondary schools, strengthening science teaching in
secondary schools, improving quality at PTTCs, and institutional
strengthening, Paras. 4-5).   In retrospect, it would have been more
prudent and justified to respond to those needs through successive
projects, rather than to try to address a'l the identified needs through
one all-inclusive project (the SAR contained some 13 different project



- 11 -
components (SAR, Annex 1)).  Implementation of the project was further
complicated as one of the most important components -- primary school
expansion in undeserved areas -- was under the Prime Minister's Office
(which operated the country's primary schools at the time), while the
other components were largely under MOE. The lesson that this project
reinforces is that project design should be as simple as possible, if
possible under only one agency.
(d)   As indicated in the Government's contribution to this report (Part II,
Paras. 25 and 42), even though the project became effective in December,
1980, construction work did not start until five years later in 1985-86.
In other words, when construction finally began, the project was only one
year away from its planned completion date (1986). In addition to the
adverse economic conditions of the period (discussed elsewhere in this
report), the reasons for the long delay in starting construction included
delays in the completion of standard school designs, lengthy and
cumbersome tendering procedures of the Government, shortages and frequent
turn-over  of  technical  staff  at  the  Project  Office,  inadequate
transportation facilities, and lack of fuel to transport building
materials, particularly to remote rural areas where the primary schools
were to be built.  In retrospect, the Bank and the Government were far too
optimistic than was warranted under the circumstances in respect to the
logistical and implementation arrangements required for carrying out the
project as planned. The Government's contribution to the report rightly
concludes that the lesson to be derived from the implementation of this
project is that constraints such as those mentioned above should be
considered carefully and realistically at the time a project is prepared,
appraised and launched.   If necessary, the Bank should stand ready to
provide early assistance at the preparation stage to ensure that designs
and tender documentation are completed (or are at an advanced stage of
completion) before a project is declared effective.
I.    Borrower's Performance
20.   Apart from the economic and financial problems prevalent in the country
during much of the implementation period, other factors that adversely affected
the Borrower's performance in project implementation included:
(i)   Lengthy Government procedures, especially in regard to tendering
(short-listing, evaluation of tender by MOE tender board, awardinLg
of contracts,  etc).   Similarly lengthy procedures  applied to
procurement of imported materials: short-listing of suppliers,
documentation, and in particular obtaining of import licenses,
clearing at entry points/ports were extremely time-consuming and
often needlessly over-bureaucratic. Similarly the Government was
tardy in submitting yearly audit reports, and the Completion Mission



- 12 -
was unable to obtain audit report for FY90, in spite of persistent
reminders from IDA.'
(ii)  At the central level, especially the PCU, planning and supervision
capacities were inadequate. The situation was further exacerbated
when staff morale was adversely affected as a result of the gloomy
economic environment which all civil servants had to endure during
much of the implementation period; ;and
(iii) The support to the regions and districts were inadequate at least
until DANIDA's support was introduced  (one project engineer and
vehicles) in 1985.
J.    Proiect Relationshi,
21.   Bank staff and officials of the Borrower involved in the implementation of
the project had, on the whole, a healthy professional relationship. However,
their relationship would have been even more strong if there had been a better
continuity of Bank staff working on the project. Also, the existence of two
separate project implementation entities (one under MOE and the other under the
Prime Minister's Office) affected project coordination and at times caused some
strain among the two units as well as with Bank staff. This appears to have been
remedied with the follow up project where   implementation appears far more
unified than was the case under this project.
K.    Consulting Services
22.   Consultants for construction activities were used by the PCU for the design
of the TES warehouses and the NEC. While these components were completed on time
and without cost overruns (with international contractors), the Completion
Mission has noted that the warehouses in particular were over-designed and
difficult and expensive to maintain. The PCU also contracted ILO/EQUIPRO for the
procurement and distribution of textbooks, laboratory equipment and supplies.
EQUIPRO performed well in discharging its contractual responsibilities. Finally,
as already noted in Paras. 9 and 19 (b), the Government contracted in October
198s the services of TCRS to complete the construction of the remaining primary
schools that was begun some five years earlier with private contractors, but had
come to a virtual standstill when the economic situation in the country
deteriorated. TCRS's performance has been outstanding.
3 As delays in submission of audit report has become a major issue in Tanzania, in most sectors,
Bank Management recently (November, 1991) initiated a major effort to have all Tanzania project
audits current.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1056-TA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THF. BOPROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Background.
23.   The sectoral focus of the project was on human resource development,
qualitative improvement and equity considerations. The specific objectives of
the project were:
(a)    To improve the quality and increase output of upper eecondary
education particularly in order to improve female participaticn
rates and alleviate the manpower bottlenecks in science fields.
(b)    To enhance the capacities and quality of supporting services to
the education sector.
(c)    To improve the quality of Primary Education with the provision of
more teaching materials and furniture and to provide with greater
access to primary schooling.
B.    The Proiect Components
24.   The pr ject components are as described in Part I of the completion report.
C.    Project Imolementation
25.   General.  The Seventh Education Project co-financed by IDA, DANIDA and the
Tanzania Government to the tune of $45 million was approved and became effective
in December 1980. The planned completion da-.e was March 31, 1986 and the closing
date was September 30, 1986. However the project did not take-off in time due
to:
(a)    Delayed completion of designs and tender documentation due to
shortage and frequent turn-over of technical manpower.
(b)    Adverse economic conditions that led to devaluation of currencies
and shortage of building materials and fuel in the country.
26.        Due to the above factors it was proposed that the project be re-
negotiated. The project cost was thus revised at $29.5 million ($4.5 millon
DANIDA grant and 25.0 million IDA Credit) and the scope reduced in 1984. The
reduced scope of the project necessitated the in-built areas and the deletion of
some projects, the objectives and the pleading by the Tanzania Government to
retain them, notwithstanding.
(i)    Ngara Secondary School
(ii)   Demonstration Secondary School, University of Dar as Salaam
(iii)  Mkokotoni Teachers College, Zanzibar



- 14 -
(iv)    The  provision  of  Lecture  rooms  and  procurement  of  Science
equipment to four colleges
(v)    Procurement of laboratory equipment to Dar es Salaam Technical
College
(vi)    Reduced number of classrooms, staff houses, and toilet units in
the primary subsector
27.   At the re-negotiation in 1984 it was agreed to allow importation of
building materials not available in the country. However, the process of
obtaining approvals, tendering procedures and delivery caused further
delays.  Imported materials reached the project sites between 1987 and
1988. The project closing date earmarked for December 1989 was extended
to December 31, 1990. Because of the above delays, reduction of scope,
the importation of building materials and the unexpected refusal by the
Bank to allow the utilization of the anticipated savings for procurement
of science equipment urgently required for improvement of science
education in other schoo's, the project closed on June 30, 1991 with a
balance of $1,049,592.61.
Part A. Primary Subsector: Prime Minister's Office
28.   Summary
(i)    The 7th IDA Education Project was the first project that included
the financing of Primary Education
(ii)    The main objectives for the Primary Subsector were (a) to improve
the quality of primary education through the provision of teaching
materials, furniture and (b) to provide poorer rural districts
greater access to primary education by constructing new buildings,
furnishing and provision of teaching materials.
(iii)  During rhe implementation, the Government faced many constraints
such as shortage of building materials, vehicles and fuel.
These led to the extension of the project, importation of building
materials, and contracting the unstarted project sites to TCRS in
Lindi and Arusha Regions.
The project was also scaled down by the reducing number of
classrooms, staff houses and toilet units to be constructed.
(iv)    The achievements of the project is that 330 classrooms were
constructed, 123 staff houses, 87 offices/stores and 52 pit
latrines.   For furniture 34,782 school desks, 1902 cupboards,
4  Bank staff responsible for project implementation explained to the Completion Mission that
the reason for not approving the Government's request was due to a disbursement freeze that was
in effect at the time for non-compliance with audit covenants.



- 15 -
2,794 tables and 2,978 chairs have been made and delivered to
schools.
Various teaching materials were purchased and distributed to the
project schools.
(v)    The project, the first in the primary subsector, has achieved
considerable success in meeting the objectives. The experiences
gained would help in preparation and implementation of similar
projects in the future.
D.    Civil Works
29.   Benefits
(i)    Construction of 330 new permanent classrooms enabling  14,850
students to be enrolled thus improving access to education.
(ii)    Teachers have provided with accommodas.ion by addition of 123 staff
houses.
(iii)   In some localities community mobilization to participate in self-
help schemes had improved and in nomadic areas people have started
to settle around the newly constructed schools.
(iv)    The revised design for classrooms used by the project has now been
adopted by the Government for use in primary schools.
30.   Problems
Mi)    The project was delayed  to start due to lack of transport
facilities, shortage of building materials and fuel.
(ii)    Local fundis (artisans) were not available in some project sites
and had to be brought in from nearby districts/regions. In some
cases the fundis ran away when they were not paid or not supplied
with materials  in time.    Also,  labor  cost  rates were  not
attractive to the artisans.
(iii)   The shortage of water was acute in some sites especially during
the dry season.
(iv)    Some remote sites were not accessible during the rainy season.
(v)    The vehicles provided for each district were not enough compared
to the size of the district.
31.   Lessons and Recommendations
(i)    The means of transport should be considered at the beginning of
the project and be provided with enough spare parts.



- 16 -
(ii)   Where problems of direct labor are experienced emplcymenui of small
contractors be considered.
(iii) Labor cost rates should vary according to the local environment.
(iv)    Use of locally available buildinp materials should be encouraged.
(v)    A policy on maintaining project buildings should be introduced
immediately after the completion of the project.
(vi)   In  future  the  construction  of  school  buildings  should  be
integrated with other socio-economic infrastructures such as water
supply, heath, etc.
(vii)   The provision of staff rooms should be considered.
E.    Furniture
32.   Benefits
Mi)    The school desk designed by the project has proved to be strong
and has been adopted by the Government for use in all primary
schools.
(ii)   The addition of 34,782 school desks reduced to some extent the
problem of desks.   Attendance has also improved as pupils no
longer sit on the floor.
33.   Problems
Mi)    Some of the furniture suppliers awarded the tender lacked modern
equipment to complete the tenders in time.
(ii)   PCU had recommended that furniture be assembled at selected
centers close to the schools.  This was not followed and as a
result some furniture was broken on the way to schools.
34.  Lessons and Recommendations
Mi)    School desks should be made of hard-wood only.
(ii)    Floor finishes should be durable to minimize breakage of furniture
and reduce termite attacks to furniture.
(iii)   It is recommended that every classroom be provided with enough
desks, a cupboard, a teacher's table and chair.
F.    Teachina Materials and Equinment
35.   Benefits
Mi)    Examination performance had improved in project schools



- 17 -
(ii)   Enrolment and attendance had improved in previous years.   For
example in Urambo district enrollment had improved from 60.8 to
852. Iramba 86.8 to 962 and Chunya district from 89.3 to 982 etc.
(iii)  Schools under the project do better in outdoor activities than
other schools.
(iv)    Pupils have gained much interest in reading supplementary books.
31.   Problem.
(i)    Transportation  of  teaching materitls  was  a  problem  due  to
inadequate transport means. Hiring charges were too high.
(ii)   Storage facilities at PCU and district centers was a problem.
37.   Recommendations
Mi)    Teaching materials and equipment should be identified at the
beginning of the project.
(ii)   The project should be provided with transport facilities for
distributing teaching materials to schools.
(iii)  It is recommended that seminars for teachers in project schools
should be organized on the use of some teaching materials and
equipment provided as well as keeping stock of materials.
38.   Proiect Management and General Recommendation
M)     Each implementing ministry should correspond directly with IDA.
(ii)   It was easier to correspond with the Regional Officer in Nairobi
than it is now in Washington.
(iii)   It is recommended that project staff should visit other countries
implementing similar projects to exchange experiences.
(iv)    Seminars should be conducted by IDA to all project leaders from
all countries implementing similar projects.
(v)    Project staff should be given orientation courses on implementing
the projects.
(vi)    The World Bank visiting mission should not be biased even before
visiting the project areas in order to understand the actual
successes and problems of the projects.
(vii)  Recent frequent changes in the World Bank visiting missions which
had been made to Tanzania have caused inconsistencies in the
proper follow-up of the project.



- 18 -
(viii) There should be % full time Project Coordinator team comprising
the Project Coordinator, Project Accountant and his assistant, two
full-time Architects/Civil Engineers, Quantity Surveyors, one
Procurement Officer one full-time Secretary and Supporting staff.
The Project team should not be transferred during the duration of
the project.
Part B.       Post Primary Sector Ministry of Education
39.   Proiect Objectives.  The project objectives as defined in Part I, of this
Project Completion Report were in line with the Sectoral policy and the
overall national socio-economic development strategy.
40.   The Project Comvonents.  The project components as described in Part I, of
the PCR covered the stated objectives. However the reduced programme of
the project fell short of attaining the stated objectives especially in
the field of teacher training aimed at improving primary education and
support to less developed areas.
41.   Adequacy and accuracy of Factual Information.  The country data defining
the project profile at the project completion as presented in Part III was
compiled by PIS/PCU, visits made to selected institutions and discussions
with the heads of institutions and teachers/workers.
42.   Proiect Implementation.   (Performance, Assessment, Problems and Lessons
Learned)
a.     Civil Works
(i) Construction work for most of the project was considerably
delayed to start due to shortage and rapid turn-over of
technical manpower, the completion of the standard designs,
adverse economic conditions leading to inflation and
devaluation of currencies and shortages of building materials
and fuel. The above problems necessitated revision of the
project costs, reduction of built areas and deletion of some
projects in 1984.
(ii)      Construction work did not start until 1985/86. When the
project was revised it was agreed that importation of
building materials be approved. The building materials
were not delivered on project sites until 1987/88 due to
long procedures of gaining approvals, tendering and
delivery procedures thus contributing further to the
delays. All the above factors contributed to the delays
in completion of the projects causing unwanted time and
cost overruns.
By 1987 it was discovered that the overruns would make it
impossible for contractors to complete the works at their
original tender sums and the contracts were revised in 1988.



- 19 -
(iii)     In relation to buildings,  institutions have raised
concern as to the small size of stores without racks for
storing equipment and chemicals, laboratories lacking
gas fittings, fume cupboards, perimeter shelves and
bench cupboards, perimeter shelves and bench cupboards
for storing such items as tripod stands, beakers, etc.
It is recommended that the present design should be modified
to include the above mentioned shortcomings and meet user
needs.
(iv)      As for TES godowne the change of policy has affected
their use. TES is no longer the sole distributor of
educational materials. Alternative uses of the godowns
should be considered.
(v) The availability of building materials and technical staff to
carry out the designs should be considered carefully at the
project appraisal. If need be the possibility of PPF funds
should be made available to ensure that the designs and tender
documentation are completed before the project effectiveness.
43.   Furniture
Most of the furniture has been delivered and installed. Installation has
not been completed at Shinyanga Commercial, Sengerema, Rugambwa, Same and the
National Examination Council completion of furniture was delayed due to the delay
in construction works and in some cases suppliers failed to complete delivery of
furniture. Generally the furniture is of good quality and acceptable standard
but a few problems have been mentioned by institutions such as benches, stools
and chairs lack braces on the legs and as such easily break. Beds are too small
and cannot take standard mattresses. The furniture design should be modified to
suit the conditions of users. The tender for furniture should not be awarded tot
he main contractor to avoid delays.
44.   Equipment. Textbooks and Vehicles
(i)    Tenders for equipment, textbooks and vehicles were administered by
the project unit and some by ILO - Equipro specialists. Most of
the equipment has been delivered and is appreciated that it is of
good quality and relevant. The selection of the equipment lists
was done by experienced teachers in schools and school inspectors
and approved by the relevant directorates. The teachers and pupils
are very happy.   The supply of good quality equipment  e -
textbooks has made a positive contribution to the performance of
students. This is evident from the pressure of parents and pupils
wanting to go to the proper schools leading to overcrowding in
some cases.
(ii)   Transport support to NEC and TES face the problems of spare parts
thus affecting the performance of the institutions.



- 20 -
(iii)  The contracting of procurement of equipment to ILO faced some
problems of communications.  In some cases the containers were
sent to the school without consulting the Procurement Unit. It
took some time to dispatch procurement officers to go and issue
the deliveries and start to use.
Generally the procurement was successfully done and the use of
experienced teachers in preparing the lists should be emphasized.
45.   Professional Services
(i)    Most of the professional services to the project were executed by
the Project Implementation staff - architectural, engineering,
land surveying, tender documentation and procurement. The only
professional service contracted was soil investigation.
(ii)   For NEC and TES godowns the professional services were contracted
to an external firm because the designs are non-standard and are
not in our room program. This indicates that P.I.S. has been able
to render most of the professional services thus reducing the
costs. However, there has been attrition of technical staff and
there is need to strengthen it in terms of training equipment and
transport.
(iii)  Procurement services were performed by the PIS except when the
Bank insisted that the Ministry should use ILO - Equipro to
procure science equipment involving unnecessary expenditures.
Support to the procurement will enable it to render better
services.
46.   Technical Assistance
(i)    A total of 32 science and math teachers were recruited from India
and Pakistan to teach in secondary schools end teachers' colleges
under local terms in order to cut down costs. However, some of
the teachers did not come. This was compensated by the recruited
teachers extending their contracts. A total of 84.7 staff years
were utilized against the 100 man years planned.
(ii)   The placement of these teachers in schools alleviated the shortage
of graduate science teachers and greatly improved the performance
of pupils in science subjects.
(iii)  Another  technical  assistance utilized was  for  the National
Examination Council. A short term consultant carried out a need
assessment for institutional development, including specifications
of  software  and  computer.    Another  consultant/M/S  Computer
Consultant (K) Ltd. carried out the development of computer
programs, data analysis for 4.5 man years.



- 21 -
(iv)"  A short term consultant  (architect)  from DANIDA carried out
revision of primary school building designs and produced a
standard design which has been adopted by the Government.
(v)    The technical assistance received has been very useful.  However,
it would have been beneficial if a program of training science
teachers would have been tied up with the recruitment of
expatriate teachers.
47.   Fellowships
Training of manpower for NEC, TES, CURE, PIS and tutors for
laboratory technicians DSM Technical College has been implemented.  A
total of 64 staff years has been utilized. Iost of the people trained are
in place. Some attrition resulting from retirement, death or moving to
other institutions has occurred.   The training has ben useful and
productive.
48.   Pre-investment Studies and Evaluation
The studies undertaken during the project includes study tours to
study the teaching of integrated science, evaluation of the primary
subcomponent, preparation of the expansion program for day secondary
schools and income-generating activities in secondary schools.   The
studies have been useful for decision-making especially on integrated
science and expansion of day schools. 5 There is need for most study on
educational issues.
49.   Prolect Manaaement
(i)    During the project period there were frequent changes of technical
and  accounting  staff.    The  designs  passed  through  many
architects/engineers, each re-starting the design. Supervision of
projects was faced with transport problems, as well as shortage of
staff. Lack of permanent supporting staff also contributed to the
delay of work.
(ii)   The most crucial issue was lack of smooth project accounting.
Payment procedures follow the general system in the Ministry. It
is difficult to retrieve the documents for preparation of audit
reports and disbursements.   The lack of permanence of project
accountants has exacerbated the problem.  Four accountants had
dealt wii.h the project. New accountants had to start to learn the
work thus contributing to delay in preparation and submission of
auditet accounts. Thee is a need to have a separate accounting
S The Completion Mission was not able to rind copies of these studies.



- 22 -
system for the project and that accounting unit should be full
time.
50.   Evaluation of Bank Performance
(i)    During the project implementation, there were frequent changes in
the Bank supervision mission personnel with different outlook and
interests. Though the frequency of the missions was adequate, the
missions lacked consistency and understanding in dealing with
problems and issues. While the earlier missions understood the
inherent problems and were cooperative in solving them, the later
missions seemed to have formed their own biased ideas even before
discussing the issues with field staff.  It is unfortunate that
the same supervision mission was involved in preparation of the
new project to the extent that they got carried away in the new
project and became insensitive to the problems and issues of this
project.
(ii)   It is a pity that the reqt.ests made by the Government to utilize
the anticipated savings (estimated at $2.0 million) for
procurement of science equipment, laboratory fittings and training
(which were in line with project objectives) was refused by the
Bank for no apparent reason. At first the Bank had agreed to the
proposal and suggested that the procurement be made through ILO to
which the Government paid $118,400.00. But when the tender awards
were submitted to the bank for approval the Bank did not approve
for  unknown  reasons.    Hence  the  unspent  balance  funds  of
$1,049,592.61. 6
(iii)   The Government had proposed that the project should be implemented
as planned to meet the sectoral needs and priorities, except that
the areas be reduced to cut down costs and be within the available
funds. However, new construction was not in donor's favor and the
Government's proposal was rejected.
There is a need for closer cooperation and understanding
between the borrower and the donors.
There is a need to streamline the accounting procedures for
smooth and timely implementation of projects.
The project staff should be retained during the project life
and be given appropriate training in Bank operations.
6 Bank staff responsible for project implementation explained that the reason for not approving
the Government's request was due a to disbursement freeze that was in effect at that time for non-
compliance with the project's covenant on submission of audit reports.



- 23 -
51.   Generally  the  project  objectives  have  been  realized,  despite  the
considerable delays, the shortcomings in buildings and furniture, the
reduced scope of the project and the underutilization of credit funds.



- 24 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORHATION
A. RELATED IDA CREDITS
Table 1: OTHER RELATED CREDITS
Credit Title                    Purpose                    Year            Status
Credit 45-TA            Secondary school improvement        1963           Completed
First Education                                             12/67          12/67
Project
Credit 149-TA           Secondary school expansion;         1969           Completed
Second Education        diversification of secondary                       12/76
Project                 curriculum; primary school
teacher training expansion;
introduction of technical,
agricultural and commercial
subjects in teacher training,
colleges and secondary schools
Credit 232-TA           Expansion and improvement of        1971           Completed
Third Education         agricultural training                              4/78
Project
Credit 371-TA           Lower secondary school              1973           Completed
Fourth Education        expansion; primary teacher                         12/80
Project                 expansion; quality upgrading of
science and health teacher
training; expansion of medical
training; re-orient medical
training to include public
health; management training
Credit 607-TA           Village management training;        19t6           Completed 6/82
Fifth Education         diversification of secondary
Project                 school curriculum; improvemeat
of training for auditors and
accountants; strengthen
educational planning
Credit 861-TA           Expansion of skill training         1979           Completed 6/88
Sixth Education         (vocational, technical,
Project                 accounting and management)
Credit 1056-TA          Qualitative improvement of          1980           Completed
Seventh Education       primary education; improving                       12/90
Project                 access to primary schools;
expansion and upgrading of
secondary education;
institutional strengthening
Credit 237-TA           Institutional strengthening;        1990           Ongoing
Educational             qualitative upgrading of
Planning and            primary and secondary schools;  1
Rehabilitation          resource mobilization for
education and training



- 25 -
B. Prolect Timetable
Table 2  s  PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item        Planned Date          Revised Date        Actual Date
Identification            10/78               10/78               10/78
Preparation              1-2/79               1-2/79             1-2/79
Appraisal                5-6/79               5-6/79             5-6/79
Post Appraisal           9-10/79             9-10/79             9-10/79
Negotiations*             4/80                4/80                4/80
Board Approval            7/80                 7/80               7/80
Credit                    12/80               12/80               12/80
Effectiveness
Project Completion        12/86         12/88, 12/89, 12/90       12/90
Project Clos1ng           3/87           6/89, 6/90, 12/90    6/89, 6/90, 12/90
*Negotiations were held in Copenhagen
52.        Comments on Timetable.    At the Goveroment's request, the Credit
Agreement was amended to extend the Closing Date by two years, from December 31,
1986, to December 31, 1988, in view of the acute economic difficulties facing the
country at the time which had particularly adverse effect on the construction
industry which relied heavily on imported construction materials, which were now
in extremely short supply. At the time it was also felt that following the
reduction in project scope that were agreed upon at the "tripartite" (GOT, IDA
and DANIDA) held in Copenhagen in April, 1984, project implementation, which
hitherto had been slow, would accelerate sufficiently to have the various
components completed by 1988. A further extension of the Closing Date was agreed
upon, following the signing of contract with TCRS in 1988 to complete
construction of primary schools (Paras. 8-9).
C.     Loan Disbursements
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Bank PY      1981    1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991
Appraisal      n/a     n/a   n/a   n/a   n/a   25.0   --    -         --    --    --
Estimate        _
Actual       0.01    0.28  0.51   1.67   3.89  5.65  8.73  16.88  21.0  23.08  23.64
Actual as S     --      --   -_    --   -_   23.0  35.0  68.0  84.0  92.0  95.00
of Estimate                                                         -
Date of Final  07/23/91
Disbursement



- 26 -
53.        Comments on Disbursements.   The appraisal estimates included projected
disbursements from the co-financed portion (DANIDA), while the amounts shown for Actual
Disbursement (recorded by the Bank's Loan and Trust Department) refer to disbursements
from the IDA credit only.   It is not therefore possible compute  "actual" as a
percentage  of appraisal  estimates.    The  co-financed  portion  (DANIDA)  was  fully
disbursed on 8/8/90.   Because of the devaluation of the Danish Kroner during the
implementation period, the total amount of the co-financed portion (Danish Kroner 45
million) was equivalent to the US$ 6.97 (US$ 20.00 million at appraisal).
D.    Proiect Imglementation
Table 4: Planned and Actual Completion Dates of
Project Components
(Civil Works)
Components      BAR Target      Actual starting jActual        | Months of
dates           completion      Delay
1.    Lower Secondary Schools
lsalato S9           5/85            6/85            8/90              63
Same SS              5/85            12/85           11190            66
Sganta SS            5/85            9/86            7/89             50
Senegerema ss        5/85            9/85            12/90            67
odomda Day           5/85            9/85            6/90             61
2.    Higher Secondary Schools
Iloboru              5/85            3/87            9/89             52
Tambaza              5185            6/84            12/89            55
Kilakala             5/85            6/86            11/89             54
Korogve              5/85            12/85           12/89            55
Rugsmbva     5|85                    12/85            1/91            68
Shinyanga            5/85            9/85            12/90            67
3.    PrImary Teacher Training Colleges
Nkrumhah TTC         9/85            6/86      |     9/91             72
New PTTC - Zanzibar: Component ys deleted
4. TES               9/83            9/86            12/87            51
Warehouses*
5. NEC              12/84            3/85            5/86              17
Headquarters
Prlmary schoole            _ _
School               9/85 -                          12/90            63
construction 
in five
districts      _                                                      __ _
*lIve of the six warehouses were completed; the sixth warehouse was deleted as a result of the change in
Goverment policy to phase out parastatals such as TEB.



- 27 -
54.     Coaments on Project Imnlementation.  The reasons for the delay in civil worka
has been explained in Part I (Paras. 8-10), and also in Part II written by Government.
Essentially, the main reasons were the acute economic difficulties prevalent in the
country during the period of implementation which resulted in shortages of construction
materialo, spare parts, fuel, etc. Also, major devaluations of the local currency
necessitated revisions of the construction contracts, which took a much longer period
than anticipated to finalize. The primary school component experienced persistent
delays on account of the geographical dispersion of the school construction sites over
wide and remote districts in the Arusha and Lindi regions, coupled with inadequate and
underqualified supervisory and managerial staff and weak logistic arrangements.
E.    Pro1ect Cost and Financing
Table 5:  PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
ESTIHATED COSTS                    ACTUAL COSTS
Category          Local       Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign
Total
Civil Works         11.48    9.40      20.88     8.73      7.14       15.87
Furniture, Equip.   1.29     11.65     12.94     6.80      5.57       12.37
Textbooks and
Vehicles e
Technical           0.28     2.58       2.8      0.05      0.41       0.46
Assistance
Research and        0.33     0.49      0.82      0.46      0.70       1.16
Professional        0.52     0.77      1.29      0.59      0.88       1.47
Services
Project Admlnilt.   0.50     0.12      0.62      1.32      0.33       1.65
Una11oCated/        -_       16.08     16.08      --       1.13       1.13
Undisbursed
TOTALA        14.40    41.09     55.50     17.95     16.16      34.00
* Totals for forein and local costs have been rounded off.
55.     Comments on Pro1ect Costs. The appraisal estimate of total project costs was
US$ 55.5 million. At the time the project's scope was reduced following the Copenhagen
meeting between the Government, the Bank and DANIDA the total cost of the project was
also scaled down to US$ 35.0 million. Much of the reduction was from the Danish
contribution which was reduced from US$ 20 million equivalent to only $4.5 million
equivalent. (The Danish currency appreciated later during implementation so that by
the end of the project, the Danish contribution Was estimated by the Bank's Loan and
Trust Department as about US$7 million equivalent.) As explained in Part I (Par&. 10),



- 28 -
this was partly a result of change in Danish foreign assistance policy for Tanzania
which to give higher priority to rehabilitation (and foreign exchange support), and
partly also to the large depreciation of the Danish currency that took place at the
time. The total project cost of about US$ 34 million equivalent was very near the
revised total project cost of US $35 million, the shortfall was largely due to the
US$1.1 million undisbursed from the Bank credit (and subsequently cancelled).
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million, net of taxes)
Planned         Revised
Actual      _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Government     10.5         5.2         2.0
IDA            25.0        25.0        25.0
DANIDA         20.0        4.5          7.0
TOTAL       55.5        34.7        34.0
56.       Comments on Prolect Financina.  The financing plan was revised at the
Copenhagen meeting in April, 1984 in the context of reducing the scale of the project
(Para. 10). The Danish contribution was reduced significantly from US$20 equivalent
(D. Kr.115 million) at appraisal to US $4.5 million equivalent (D. Kr. 44.55 million
at the exchange rate prevailing at the time). As indicated earlier this was partly a
reflection of the depreciation of the Danish Kroner at the time, and partly a
deliberate Government policy to reallocate Danish; assistance to Tanzania to
rehabilitation of existing facilities, thereby reducing investment in new institutions
which would potentially increase the Government's recurrent cost burden. Later during
implementation period, the Danish contribution was worth the equivalent of about US$
7 million, as shown in Table 6, above. The IDA credit of US$ 25.0 remained unchanged.
On account of the sharp economic deterioration in the country, the Government's actual
expenditure was about US$ 2.0 million equivalent, and much of it was disbursed for
project administration.



- 29 -
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
(US $ Million)
Category          Original            Actual
________________________    _ j ,llocation   3isbursement
I.  Civil Works                      10.00              8.78
|II. Furnture, Eqpt.                  5.50             11.39
Textbooks & Vehicles.                                       I
III.Technical Assistance              1.40              0.47
IV. R&D, Studies, Trng.               0.39              0.97
V. Professional Services              0.50              1.37
VI. Project Administration            0.06              0.66
Unallocated                       7.15   _-____
TOTAL                     25.00            23.64
57.       Comments on Allocation of Loan Proceeds.    95.52 of the creCit was disbursed;
the undisbursed amount totaling about $1.35 million was canceled. The DANIDA grant was
fully disbursed.
F.        Project Results.
Table 8a: DIRECT BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT
(Construction of Primary Schools)*
Districts    Appraisal          Revised         Actual             No. Completed
Target            Target          Completion         by TCRS
(1984)                                    _
Mondull         63/11/32/21       49/9/25/17      54/12/22/13           20/5/15/10
Ngorongoro      63/10/31/21       48/9/25/16      48/11/22/12            22/5/8/7
Kiteto          72/12/36/24       54/9/28/20      48/13/21/9            45/9/11/4
Lindi Rural    90/15/45/30        75/14/34/20    72/16/31/14             12/3/4/3
Kilva           72/12/36/24       54/9/28/17      70/16/31/14            13/-48/6
TOTAL       360/60/180/120   280//50/140/   302/70/123/52          112/22/49/30
Mtvara**                                   ___    28/17/-/-              -__
*Figures indicate number of classrooms/office-stores/teachers' houses/pit latrines.
** Mtwara opted for classrooms in lieu of furniture.



- 30 -
58.    Commento  on Pro1ect Bene its  QPrim*r, School Construgction):  Originally only
four districts were identified for construction of primary schools. During the project
period, Monduli district was divided into two adding Ngorongoro to the list.
Additionally 17 classrooms were constructed in the adjoining district of Mtwara, which
was not included in the appraisal estimates. The completion ratios for the various
facilities were as followst 1072 for classrooms (1172) if Mtwara is added), 882 for
staff houses, 1402 for office/storage, and 58S for pit latrines. About 37Z of the
classrooms were completed by TCRS, all during the last two months of the implementation
period. The Completion Mission noted that the quality of constructicn of classrooms
constructed by TCRS was on the whole comparable or even better than those built earlier
by private contractors. In any event, a sizeable portion of those constructed by the
private contractors were not fully completed in the sense that they sometimes lacked
windows, doors or floors. There were no set targets for furniture, but a lump sum of
TSh. 13,664,600 was allocated for all 16 districts. For the five districts mentioned
above, classrooms and offices were to be furnished along with the construction. At the
time the TCRS commenced work (January, 1989) an estimated 362 of the civil works had
roofs and were in use. However, many schools were without doors, windows and floors.



- 31 -
Table Sb. DIRECT BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT
(Fxpansion of Enrollment)
Type/name of                                                Actual
Institution                   Appraisal    Revised           (1991)
____________________________   ___________    Ta rge t
I I  PRIMARY EDUCATION
Monduli/Ngorongoro District         6,300    2,850         5,100
Kiteto District                     3,600    2,700         2,400
Lindi Rural District                4,500    3,750         3,600
Kilva District                      3,600    2,700         3,500
Mtwara                                ___   ___            1,400
TOTAL FOR PRIMARY SCHOOL           18,000                   16,000
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____   __ ____ ___ 12,000   _ _ _ _ _ _
II. SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Appraisal Tareet   Actual
(1991)
Msalato (Girls)--Dodoma               828 |                 848
Same (mixed) --Killmanj.              500 |                 344
Nganza (Girls)--Mwanza               .500 |                 458
Senegerema (Girls)--Hwanza            820  _                701
Ilbora (Boys)--Arusha                 720                   804
Tambaza (mixed)--Dar                 1040                  1697
Kilakala (Girls)--Morogoro            720                   771
Korogwe (Girls)--Tanga                660                   697
Rugambwa (Girls)--Ziwi M.             720                   517
Shinyanga Commercial                  420                   341
Kibaha (boys)--Coast                  720                   711
Minaki (boys)--Coast                  600                   511
Pugu (Boys)--Dar                      900                   811
Mazengo (Boys)--Dodoma               1060                   996
Moshi (Boys)--Kilitnanjaro            720                   709
Shinyanga (Boys)--Shinyan.            600                   651
Tabora (Boys)--Tabora                 600                   651
Tabora (Girls)--Tabora                660                   537
Ihungo (boys)--Zlwi M.                600                   551
Dodoma Day (Mixed)--Dod.              800                   692
Total for Secondaryl               14,278                 13,998



- 32 -
Comments on Project Benefits (Enrollment Expansion)    The project has exceeded the
revised enrollment epansion target for the primary school component by 33S, and was
in fact very close (882) to achieving the original appraisal target. In the case of
enrollment expansion for upper secondary schools, the project has virtually (98Z)
attained the target. Another important objective of the project, that of expanding
girls' enrollment in upper secondary schools was also attained. At the time the
project was appraised the total number of girls in upper secondary schools that were
assisted by the project was only 920. The project sought to increase this number to
about 2770. At the time of project completion the appraisal target was exceeded by
almost 20S, and the number of girls attending the project-assisted schools had risen
to over 3290.
Table 8c* DIRECT BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT
(Technical Assistance and Fellowships)
Project Item     SAR Target (SlY)    Actual (SlY)
A. Technical Assistgace
1. Secondary
School
Voluntary
Teachers          100               87.5
2.  National
Ixamination
Council            12          __
Total TA              112               87.5
3.  Fellowships            __
TUB                    10                2.75
315                    32               15.25
WEE                    36               38.25
Dar Technical                            6
ColOge               36
Project                                  I
Administration         :
Total fellowships         78                63.25



- 33 -
G. Status of Credit Covenants
Table 9: COMPLIAMOR WITH CREDIT COVENANTS
Section                       Covenant                      Status
3.08(b)   Borrower to furnish IDA with a ten-year plan   Not met
for the training, posting and retention of
Tanzanian science teachers, by 6/30/81
3.09      Borrower to furnish IDA by 3/31/81 a plan of   Partially
action:  1) for studies to be undertaken with  met
project funds, il) supporting infotmation and
materials for such a plan                                     l
3.10      Borrower to enlarge class group size by           In full
12/31/83                                         compliance
3.06      Borrower to provide IDA by 6/30/81 with a         In full
list of villages locations (and relate4          compliance
school location planning data) to be included
in part A (il) of the project                                 l
3.08(a)   Borrower to provide IDA by 3/31/81 a plan for  In full
the recruitment of expatriate graduate           compliance
science teachers
4.01      Borrower to maintain to maintain a separate       Partially
(a)       account for SOEs                                  met; record
keeping
not
sufficientl
y
systematic
4.01(b)   Borrower to retain, until one year after the    In
project's Closing Date, all financial and        Compliance;
expenditure records pertaining to the Credit   record
keeping not
sufficientl
y
systematic
4.01(c)   Borrower to provide IDA audit reports for         Submission
each of the accounts established for the         of audit
project for each of the Government's fiscal      reports was
year within a maximum of a year after the        irregular;
close of the fiscal year                         part of
audit
report for
FY89 and
for FY90
not
received



- 34 -
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table 10: STAPF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
(in Staff-weeks)
Planned          Revised        Final/Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
____ ___ ___ ___ _ BQ  Field     E Q     Pil dl    HQ       Field
Through Appraisal     58.6     8       56.6     --        58.6     8
Appraisal to Board    62.4    23       62.4     --        62.4     23
Board to Effectiveness    6.4  0        6.4 r -            6.4     0
Supervision           70.0    31       70   r -          126.5    63
TOTAL         197.4    62      197.4     --       253.9    94
Comments on Staff Inouts Staff inputs for the early year until appraisal was about
average for education projects.  Also, the appraisal process was quite adequate.  The
supervision period, however, was almost double (both headquarter time and time in the
field, reflecting the unusually long implementation period which was extended by about
five years (from 1986 to 1991). The project was supervised at regular intervals (about
seventeen supervision missions, plus an "in-depth review mission" over ten years),
particularly during the first half of the project's life when supervision was fielded
from the Nairobi office (Para. 17).



- 35 -
TableI 1: MISSION DATA BY STAGE OF PROJECT
Mission             Month/Year         No. of         Staff                     Performance
Persons 1j    Weeks                      Status by
in the                    Activity k/
_______________ __       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Fie td_             _ _ _ _ _  _
Identification      10/19-26/78       1 (ES)          2         =    =    =
Preparatio          01/19-02/10/79    2 (ED, TE)      6
Appraisal           05/04-06/01/79    5 (ES,EC,       17
__________________                     EC,    TS,    A)
Post-Appraisal      04/27-10/10/79    3 tES,EC,A)    6
Total         31                    _
l ~     ~        __ _ _              C___                         P    M    E
Supervision I *    04/22-05/06/81    2 (A, ED)        4         1          1    2
Supervision It      10/21-11/01/81    2 (A, TE)       4        1 _         1    2
Supervision III    04/26-05/06/82    3 (A,AD,TE)    6           1    -    1    2
Supervision IV      10/21-29/82        3(EP, TE,A)    3         2    2    1    2
Supervision V       04/18-29/83       2 (TE. A)       4         2    2    2    3
Supervision VI      10/18-28/83        2 (ED, TE)     4         3    2    1    3
Supervision VII     03/17-23/85        2 (TE, A)      4         2    2    1    2
Supervision VIII    10/10-21/85        2 (ED, TE)     4         2    2    1    2
Supervision IX      02/01-14/86       3 (ED.TE,A)    6          2    2    2    1
Supervision X       10/21-11/05/86    2 (TE, A)       4         2    2    2    2
Supervision XI      03/19-31/87        2 (TE, A)      4         2    2    2    2
Supervision XlI     08/04-11/87       2 (ED  TE)      2              -
Supervision XIII    12/08-16/87       4CED.A,A,A)    4          _
Supervision XIV     03/10-18/88        1 (TE)          1        2    2    2    2
Supervision XV      06/08-18/88       2 (ED, ED)      3         .
Supervision XVI     06/30-07/09/88    1 (A)           2         2    2    2    2
Supervision XVII    07/18-08/03/90    1 (ED)                    3    2    3    1
Total         61=
A=Architect; EDnEducator; ES:Educational Sociologist; EC*Economist;
TE=Technical Educator; TS=Educational Testing
G=General Status; PeProcurement; M4Nanagement; F-Financ(al
* In addition an "in-depth" review mission consisting of two architects was fielded during June 4-20, 1991 to help
cost the project following the reduction in project scope.



