Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No- P-2861-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPOUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
July 8, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorkiation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =   Tanzanian Shilling (TSh.)
TSh. 1.00                 -   US$0.12
US$1.00                   =   TSh. 8.30
US$1.00                   =   D.Kr. 5.75
D.Kr. 1.00                =   US$0.17
GLOSSARY
BER         -      Basic Economic Report
5CM         -      Chama Cha Mapinduzi
CNE         -      Colleges of National Education
DANIDA      -      Danish International Development Agency
D.Kr.       -      Danish Kroner
DDD         -      District Development Director
DEO         -      District Education Officer
NMD         -      Ministry of Manpower Development
MOE         -      Ministry of National Education
NEC         -      National Examinations Council
PCU         -      Project Coordinating Unit
PIU         -      Project Implementation Unit
PMO         -      Prime Minister's Office
RCU         -      Rural Construction Unit
RDD         -      Regional Development Director
REO         -      Regional Education Officer
SLP         -      School Location Planning
TANU        -      Tanganyika African National Union
TES         -      Tanzania Elimu Supplies
UPE         -      Universal Primary Education
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               United Republic of Tanzania
Amount:                 US$25.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  Standard
Cofinancing:            The Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA)
is providing a grant of US$20 million equivalent.
Prolect Description:   Primary education:  construction of about 360 primary
classrooms in four least developed districts, and
provision of teaching materials to schools in sixteen
rural districts.
Secondary education: construction of a demonstration
school at the University of Dar es Salaam and of two
lower secondary schools; construction of science and
mathematics streams in new, and rehabilitation of such
streams in existing schools; provision of 100 stfff-
years of graduate teachers of science and mathematics.
Teacher training: construction of a new, and rehabili-
tation of an existing, teacher training college in
Zanzibar.
Educational Quality Support Services: provision of
storage facilities to Tanzania Elimu Supplies, a para-
statal, and fellowships to the National Examination
Council.
Given the isolated locations and the size of the!
primary school construction component some difficulties
can be anticipated in its implementation. However,
technical assistance is provided for the four districts
concerned to address this problem. The main risk for
the secondary school component lies in the uncertain
supply of mathematics and science teachers. The
project would minimize this problem temporarily by
financing teachers in the short-term and ensuring that
the government adopts policies to address the problem
over the longer-term.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ (million)-----
Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment,
Textbooks and Vehicles
a.   Primary Education                             3.1        5.1       8.2
b.   Secondary Education                           7.1        8.8      15.9
c.   Teacher Training                              1.9        2.9       4.8
d.   Supporting Services                           2.1        2.7       4.8
Sub-total                             14.2       19.5      33.7
Technical Assistance                               0.3        2.6       2.9
Research and Development, Training                 0.2        0.4       0.6
Professional Services                              0.5        0.8       1.3
(Architectural/Engineering)
Pre-investment Studies,
Monitoring and Evaluation                        0.1        0.1       0.2
Project Administration                             0.6        0.1       0.7
Total Baseline Costs                              15.9       23.5      39.4
Contingencies
Physical                               1.4        1.7       3.1
Price Increase                         5.9        7.1      13.0
Sub-total                              7.3        8.8      16.1
Total Project Cost                                23.2       32.3      55.5
(of which taxes and duties)                      0.5        -        0.5
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
--------US$ million------
IDA Credit                                7.0       18.0      25.0
DANIDA Grant                              5.7       14.3      20.0
Government of Tanzania                   10.0         -       10.0
Total Project Costs                   22.7       32.3      55.0
(Net of taxes and duties)



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year          FY81   FY82  FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
------------------US$ million-----
Annual                     0.4    8.1  17.0   13.2    6.0   0.3
Cumulative                 0.4    8.5  25.5   38.7   44.7  45.0
Appraisal Report: No. 2782-TA, dated June 2, 1980.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$25.0 million equivalent on
standard terms to help finance improving the quality of primary education,
increasing the capacity of the upper-secondary education system in science-
based fields, augmenting teacher training facilities, and enhancing the
capacity of key governmental and parastatal agencies to manage resource flows
in the education sector. Cofinancing is being provided by the Danish Inter-
national Development Association (DANIDA) with an amount of D.Kr. 115 million
(US$20 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum will be issued later this fiscal year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 70% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Grain Storage and Milling Project, dated April 15, 1980.



-2-
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
distribution. This is reflected in ambitious programs for the provision
of rural water supplies and health services and in the decision to achieve
universal entry into primary education beginning in 1977.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita.  While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
has recovered well with annual growth at 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978.
During this decade the service sector grew the fastest - 6.3% p.a., followed
by the industrial sector - 4.0% p.a. and then agriculture - 2.7% p.a.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976.
Since then revenue has been increasing at a rate below the GDP growth rate
(in 1974/75 revenue was 22% of GDP). This increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive dLrect taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75,
the rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings
fluctuated at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell
to half that level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis
level in 1976 and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at
Tanzania's income level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of a more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975
the average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. It is likely that the gap has
been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of agricultural
production and higher producer prices. However, regional income differentials
in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal urban sector
there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income differential
between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage earners from 50
to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, an informal sector has emerged
comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed workers with earnings
significantly below the official urban minimum wage. The policies of wage
restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975 should have a bene-
ficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribution, and the basic
needs oriented programs in rural water and health and in universal primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years. Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy. The overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports



- 3 -
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (by an average of
about 7% in the years 1976-78), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-
measure subsistence sector, while the monetary sector has lagged well behind.
Over the last decade subsistence growth has averaged more than double
monetary sector growth. This has led to a severe retardation of growth of
exports of agricultural products which in turn has led to increasing dependency
on foreign loans and grants to pay for imports.
9.        A second problem that is becoming more serious is the deceleration
of the growth of government revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP
compared to most other developing countries, government revenues have been
growing more slowly than GDP in recent years.  At the same time recurrent
expenditures have been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector
savings have been well below expectations and the Government has had to rely
more upon borrowing (both foreign and local) and external aid for financing
development than was planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government followed a program agreed to at the
time of the first Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to more productive sectors, higher agricul-
tural producer prices, constraints on wages and salaries, price and tax
increases to restrain consumption and tight control of imports. These poli-
cies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in keeping government
spending under control with low levels of borrowing from the banking system
and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150 million in 1977.
Food production increased and government stocks of most foodgrains reached
record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease import restrictions
and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed by industry, which
had been running below capacity.
11.       Unfortunately the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began to
fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October, 1978
war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment and
domestic mobilization put an increasing strain on the balance of payments
and the domestic budget. Consequently the current account showed a deficit
of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the overall balance of payments was
almost US$300 million in deficit. As a result, reserves were drawn down and
the country was forced to delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation deteriorated further in 1979 and the Government's
economic policies are facing a major challenge. The overall balance of
payments is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit and as a result
arrears were estimated at about US$200 million by the end of the year. At
the same time the domestic budget deficit has ballooned. The recurrent budget
is expected to show a deficit of almost Tsh. 1 billion for 1978/79 and govern-
ment borrowing from the banking system is expected to be more than Tsh. 3
billion, a major component in an almost 35% increase in the money supply.



In an attempt to address the balance of payments imbalance, import licenses
were reduced by almost 40% from the 1978 level in real terms (following a 10%
devaluation in January of 1979). The Government was also able to arrange for
almost US$75 million in funds from the IMF from its first credit tranche, the
Trust Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund. However, negotiations for
further assistance from the IMF have so far been-unsuccessful. The 1979/80
budget calls for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure and borrow-
ing from the banking system of Tsh 1.67 billion, but through the first quarter
of this fiscal year borrowing was already Tsh 1.4 billion. A major cause of
this problem is the lack of budgetary discipline: spending agencies have been
able to exceed their budgetary allocations with the Treasury continuing to
honor their checks. The Government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive
program to deal with the current crisis, as it did in 1974. The Bank Group
has offered to help the Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance.
Because of the very concessional terms on which this aid has been given to
Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use higher cost
commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service ratio has
historically been low (less than 10%). However, the recent balance of pay-
ments crisis has forced the Government to make greater use of loan financing
and as a result the debt service ratio was estimated at 12% in 1979 and was
projected at 15% in 1980. We expect it will remain in the range of 15-20%
throughout the 1980's. In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's external debt
(for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's debt service
(40% for the Bank Group). We are projecting this debt service share to fall
to about 21% in 1980 and to remain around 25% for the coming decade.
14.       Tanzania's development will require resources in excess of domestic
savings and external capital made available solely to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports
on the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the
General Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and
liabilities. In late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three govern-
ments his proposals for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for
their consideration. The next step would be the start of negotiations among
the three governments based on the mediator's proposals. The mediator's
report and recommendations on the future structure of the East African Develop-
ment Bank (EADB) have been accepted by the Partner States. The revised EADB



- 5 -
Charter along with the Treaty amending and re-enacting the new Charter have
been submitted to the three Governments for signature; this is expected
shortly.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities had to take over the services
formerly provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the
EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 42 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$812.5 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects.  While up to the end of FY1972 Bank Group operations were
directed mainly to infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the operations
approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects. Furthermore,
a number of recent Bank Group supported infrastructure projects have been
closely linked with specific productive activities. For example, the Urban
Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in December 1976, will
support the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA)
and the Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No. 833-TA).
Directly productive projects recently approved include the Second Cashewnut
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Grain Storage and Milling Project dated April 15, 1980.



- 6 -
Development Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling Project (Credit
No. 802-TA), the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and Credit
No. 875-TA) and the Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited Project
(Loan No. 1745-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project (Credit No.
860-TA), a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway
Project (Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Board in FY79. Since the
beginning of this fiscal year five projects were approved: a fourth line of
credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Loan No. 1750-TA), an Engineering
Credit for the Dar-es-Salaam Port (Credit No. S-24-TA), the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank (Credit No. 987-TA), a Pyrethrum Project (Credit No. 1007-TA)
and a Grain Storage and Milling Project (Credit No. 1015-TA). Projects which
have been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, a Second
Technical Assistance Project, a Telecommunications Project, a Coconut Project,
a Petroleum Exploration Project, and a Rural Development Project in Mara
Region. A small scale industries project, a third urban project, a harbours
project, a structural adjustment project, a Coal Engineering Project, and a
railway project are also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. The causes of the
difficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the scarcity of
suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers while others result from the strains associated with attempting a
"frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent
and drastic administrative changes, which -- although potentially the source
of long-term benefits -- have disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11)
has had some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the war
there was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however most of these
problems have been solved. The more serious medium term problem involves the
financial and foreign exchange implications of the war. If these problems are
not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds and the shortage of
foreign exchange could become a major constraint to implementation and oper-
acing performance.  In general, implementation difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example, are
proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
14 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group



- 7 -
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. In addition, a number
of EDI supported courses on the transport and industry sectors have been held
at the East African Management Institute in Arusha Tanzania. Furthermore,
the need to establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between
responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems
was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. Finally, in February 1977 a regular Government/
Bank Group review of project implementation was established. Discussions on
the Bank Group project portfolio, chaired by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies, deal
in detail with individual problem projects and problems which are affecting
project implementation across a number of sectors. As a result of these
efforts, there has been some improvement in project implementation. Actions
agreed to during the reviews have been completed relatively quickly and
coordination and communication between MOF and the various ministries and
agencies responsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective project implementation. In addition to fully supporting the
project implementation review system, MOF has set up a unit to oversee project
performance. As a consequence of these efforts, the disbursement record of
Bank Group financed projects has improved somewhat over the last two years,
and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is
about equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for
further significant improvements, the Government is implementing its investment
program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effec-
tively than in the past. However, the impact of the Uganda War (para. 11) on
the Government's resources may affect the progress in project implementation
until such constraints are dealt with.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Education Policy and Strategy
22.       Since Independence in 1961 Tanzania has regarded education as an
important means of national development. Its First Five-Year Development Plan
(1964-69) gave priority to increasing the supply of trained high- and middle-
level manpower. The task of Africanizing the civil service was a key objective
and the Government established a target of self-sufficiency in trained manpower
by 1980. The plan also called for a comprehensive education system for adults
and children as soon as financially possible. Then, in the Arusha Declaration
in 1967 President Nyerere sharply criticized elitism, neglect of rural areas,
and lack of practical experience in formal education. He subsequently laid
down the guidelines for education reform in a major policy statement Education
for Self-Reliance. Basic education for the entire population, especially in
the rural environment, became the highest priority. To this end, farming and
practical subjects (including home economics, agriculture and commerce) were
introduced in the schools.



23.       The educational directives outlined in the Arusha Declaration and
the Education for Self-Reliance policy statement were the central features in
the education parts of the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74). The
target of universal primary education (UPE) by 1989 was established. Moreover,
the plan proposed that the primary school should become a "community center,"
a focal point for meeting the educational needs of the whole community, adults
and children. In addition, a national literacy program was launched to
eradicate illiteracy. By the end of 1975, cumulative enrollments in literacy
classes had reached 5.2 million or nearly 90% of the estimated number of adult
illiterates.  Even with the new focus on UPE and mass-oriented education and
the resource allocation implied, the target for reaching self-sufficiency in
higher middle level manpower by 1980 was retained.
24.       In 1974, the TANU Executive Committee reviewed the successes and
failures in implementing the policy framework of Education for Self-Reliance.
The resulting Musoma Resolution declared that UPE should be advanced to
November 1977. It also introduced the requirement that university candidates
must engage in two years of work experience and receive satisfactory evaluation
from both their employer and their local party branch before continuing to
higher education. Furthermore, the resolution stressed diversifying secondary
education by introducing practical skills training and self-reliance activities
in the schools. The Third Five-Year Plan (1976-1981) essentially reiterated
the objectives spelled out in the previous plan as modified by the Musoma
Resolution, and also introduced the goal of increased female enrollment
in secondary education.
Education Structure and Management
25.       The structure of the formal education system consists of primary
education (Standards 1-7), lower secondary education (Forms I-IV), upper
secondary (Forms V-VI), and higher education (provided primarily by the
University of Dar es Salaam and the Dar es Salaam Technical College).
26.       This basic educational structure is supplemented by a range of formal
and nonformal specialized training programs under a variety of Ministries.
The Ministry of National Education (MOE) is responsible for overall educational
policies and standards, and for operating secondary schools, colleges of
national education and technical colleges. Since the decentralization in 1972,
the regions and districts under the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) are responsi-
ble for primary and adult education. The key official in the region is the
Regional Education Officer (REO), who is responsible administratively to the
Regional Development Director (RDD) and professionally to the MOE.  At the
district level the District Education Officer (DEO) is administratively respon-
sible to the District Development Director (DDD) and professionally to the REO.
Both the REO and DEO are assisted by officers responsible for primary school
inspection, adult education and supplies and logistics services. In addition,
each Village Council has an Education Committee which is increasingly responsi-
ble for raising self-help support for primary school construction. In Zanzibar,
responsibility for primary and secondary education and teacher training rests
with the Zanzibar Ministry of Education.



-9-
Primary Education
27.       As noted above (para. 24) the highest policy priority in the educa-
tion sector in recent years has been the national effort to achieve UPE which
brought about an enrollment of 96% of the seven year age group in Standard 1
in 1979. Enrollment figures reflect the rapid pace of progress in the primary
school system in recent years: enrollments rose from 1 million in 1972 to 3
million in 1978 and might reach 4 million in 1984. By 1985, barring major
setbacks, primary enrollment growth will be more in line with the birth rate.
28.       To cope with the large increase in teacher demand that resulted from
the acceleration of the UPE target to 1977, the Government embarked in 1976/77
on a five-year program to train roughly 43,000 new teachers, mainly through
non-residential distance-learning techniques. The candidates were primary
school leavers. The program is more than half-completed and MOE is already
planning a continuing inservice residential program to start in 1981 to fill
gaps in the background and training of these new teachers. One of the major
problems facing the primary subsector is that the primary classrooms in many
districts, are not providing the basic conditions for a learning environment:
simple furniture, stocks of textbooks and other teaching materials are often
missing.
Secondary Education
29.       In 1978, lower secondary enrollments (Forms I-IV), both public and
private, amounted to 59,000 students or 4% of the 14 to 17 year age group of
mainland Tanzania. The state-supported and managed public schools accounted
for only 37,900, or 64% of this. The proportion of public school enrollment
to total secondary enrollment has declined steadily in the past decade as the
Government has resisted social demand for more schooling by adhering strictly
to manpower demand guidelines set by the Ministry of Manpower Development
(MMD) (see para. 37) while private schools have expanded rapidly to meet
demand. The quality of the new private schools is lower than that of public
schools as, with few exceptions, the private institutions lack adequately
equipped facilities and qualified staff.
30.       There are a number of issues facing secondary education.  First,
there is an increasing shortage of science graduates from these schools
in spite of the fact that students with graduation in scientific subjects are
in greatest demand in qualifying for higher education, in entering professional
and vocational training programs or for direct employment. While MOE has
recently begun to attempt to remedy this imbalance by shifting school teaching
time on the official weekly timetable away from the newer subjects such as
home economics, agriculture and commerce to the sciences, significant increases
in science graduates will depend on the availability of more science teachers.
Since the secondary schools are the source for increasing the supply of
teachers, a temporary infusion of expatriate mathematics, physics and chemistry
teachers appears to be required to break the present vicious cycle.



- 10 -
31.       A second problem facing secondary schools is the low enrollment of
girls, which has remained at about 30% of Forms I-IV in public schools since
independence. The Government is increasingly determined to rectify this
imbalance between the sexes by requiring new lower secondary schools to be
coeducational and by opening streams for females at the upper secondary
level. One of the goals of the current Five Year Plan (1976-81) is to in-
crease opportunities for women in education. The Sixth Education Project
(Credit No. 861-TA and para 38) is supporting the Government's program
for increasing opportunities for women by adding 16,0 hostel places to each of
four existing technical secondary schools.
Post Secondary Education
32.       After completing Form IV, students who continue their education
may attend upper secondary school for two years and thereafter proceed either
to university, or to various semi-professional diploma courses, but only after
completing national service and two years of work. Alternatively, they may
enroll in one of the many post-Form IV colleges and institutes offering
specialized training. In fact, these offer over three times more opportunities
for further studies than upper secondary schools. In 1978 of 12,500 Form
IV leavers, nearly 2,000 entered Form V, while approximately 6,500 entered
other training programs. Excluding adult education centers, in 1976 there
were approximately 120 colleges and institutes operated or supported by the
Government with a total enrollment capacity of about 24,000 students.
33.       In July 1970, the three colleges of the University of East Africa
became three separate universities in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania. The Uni-
versity of Dar es Salaam now comprises faculties of arts, law, medicine,
engineering, science and agriculture. The university's department of education
provides pre-service training for graduate secondary school teachers and for
teacher college tutors. In 1978-79 university enrollments totalled about
2,300, but some faculties are operating at as low as 60% of capacity due to a
dearth of qualified candidates. In addition, nearly 140 Tanzanian students
were enrolled in degree or diploma courses in Uganda and Kenya and 800 in
post-secondary courses overseas.
Financing Education
34.       Education and training activities are largely financed by the
Government; parents and the private sector contribute a relatively minor share
of total education expenditure. Foreign assistance for education is received
from various donor agencies.  Out of the total TSh 197.8 million (US$24.4
million) expended on education projects under implementation in 1978-79,
approximately 81% of total project costs was financed from external sources:
Sweden (TSh 66.7 million), Denmark (TSh 27.1 million), Netherlands (TSh 17.2
million), Germany/FRG (TSh 16.3 million) and the Association (TSh 14.8
million).           1
35.       Total public expenditure for education in 1978-79 was budgeted at
TSh 1,975 million (US$241 million equivalent), accounting for 15.8% of total



- 11 -
Government expenditure or about 6.8% of GDP. Of total expenditure, a quarter
is capital expenditure. The expectation for the period of the Third Five Year
Plan (1976-81) is that the level of capital expenditure will remain the same
in real terms. Recurrent expenditure in 1978-79 amounted to TSh 1,517 million
or 21.8% of the total Government recurrent expenditures; 47.2% of total
recurrent expenditure on education and training in 1978-79 was accounted for
by the MOE, while the regions and other ministries accounted for 35.1% and
17.7% respectively. The main changes in the distribution of recurrent expen-
diture by level and type of education in the period 1972-73 to 1978-79 were
significant increases in the shares for primary education (from 34.5% to
42.8%) and teacher training (from 5.7% to 9.2%). There were decreases in all
other categories of expenditure, notably secondary education (from 16.4% to
10.2%). The large increase for primary education was due to the introduction
of UPE which also had a major impact on the recurrent expenditure budgets of
the regions: in 1978/79 primary education accounted for 33% of the Regions'
total recurrent expenditures.
36.       Government recurrent expenditure on education and training will be
less burdensome than was anticipated in the 1977 Basic Economic Report, or
during the appraisal of the Sixth Education Project. This changed outlook
reflects the fact that the most recent growth of primary enrollments (1979)
has proven to be more moderate than was projected. For example, enrollment
totals of 2.8 million and 3.5 million were projected for the years 1976/77 and
1977/78 respectively, whereas the corresponding actual enrollments (public and
private schools) were 2.3 million and 3.0 million. The prospective rate of
growth of total recurrent expenditure on education and training is projected
at 4% annually, a growth rate which implies a decreasing share for education
and training in the Government's total recurrent expenditure.
Demand for Trained Manpower
37.       In Tanzania as in other countries, the development of manpower
resources and their effective utilization are key factors influencing economic
growth. Recognizing that a widespread shortage of trained high- and middle-
level manpower constitutes a constraint on the economic development of the
country, the Government created the MMD in 1975 with the responsibility for
forecasting manpower requirements, planning manpower development, and alloca-
ting high- and middle-level skilled manpower. MMD also makes recommendations
on the desired volume and composition of manpower needed at the secondary and
higher levels of education to meet forecasted requirements. MMD estimates
reflects the significant shortfall of high- and middle-level manpower require-
ments at the moment and project that the gap between supply and demand for
higher- and middle-level personnel in Tanzania will persist until 1990.
As identified by the Manpower Report to the President (1977) the gap is most
pronounced in certain specific professions like pharmacists, engineers,
technicians, science teachers, accountants and other professionals requiring
scientific knowledge. The Government of Tanzania is trying to remedy these
constraints (e.g. by exempting engineering candidates from the two-year
national service requirement). However, a doubling of science graduates from
universities and other institutes of higher learning is required. As noted
below, addressing this constraint is a major feature of the project.



- 12 -
Bank Group Experience in the Education Sector
38.       The previous six Bank Group-assisted projects in education with
a total amount of US$46.2 million, have been directed at the Government's
program for manpower development and its training efforts in the rural sector.
Two projects, financed in 1963 and 1969, assisted the expansion of general
secondary education. The project completion report noted (a) the necessity
to expand access for women to the higher and more specialized areas of educa-
tion and training; and (b) the need for adequate staff training to meet the
staff requirements above all in specialized subjects. The Third Education
Project assisted agricultural training facilities for villagers, farmers, and
agriculture extension personnel. The major problems of this project, pointed
out in the completion report, were the lack of coordination and communica-
tion between the ministries involved, and problems facing the construction
efforts in rural areas, resulting in much slower performance than was antici-
pated at the time of appraisal. These lessons are also reflected in the
project performance audit reports for the second and the third education
projects. The Fourth Education Project, still under implementation, is
directed at developing multi-purpose community education centers for rural
areas, improving training of primary teachers and providing facilities for
medical education. After a slow startup, it is proceeding well. The Fifth
Education Project assists in the villagization program, and expanding the
secondary education system. The extensions to secondary schools are proceeding
satisfactorily but the construction of houses in 1,500 scattered villages, as
part of the rural training component of the project, is behind schedule due to
the unreliability of community self-help and the difficulties of implementing
such a dispersed construction program.  Latest estimates indicate that the
project can be completed by the original June 30, 1982 closing date. The
Sixth Education Project, begun in 1979, is helping to improve and increase
specialized skill training (vocational training, accountancy traiting, and
management training); project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
39.       The proposed project would incorporate several of the main lessons
learned from the Association's past lending to Tanzania's education
sector: it would (a) substantially increase female enrollment in higher
secondary education; (b) deliberately avoid further investments in major
curriculum innovations (such as secondary school practical subjects); (c) be
confined to institutions which fall under the responsibility of one Ministry
(rather than several), the Ministry of National Education, and the PMO; (d)
make direct short-term provision of the most critically needed types of
teachers instead of only calling on the Government to assure a supply of them;
and (e) allow a project implementation period of six years.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
40.       The project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania with assis-
tance from the Association. Negotiations were held in April 1980. The
Government Delegation was headed by Mr. S. Tunginie, Principal Secretary of
the Ministry of Education (MOE), and included representatives of MOF and the



- 13 -
Ministry of Justice. A report entitled "A Seventh Education Project in the
United Republic of Tanzania" (No. 2782-TA) is being circulated separately. A
credit and project summary is at the front of this report and Annex III lists
supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
41.       The proposed project aims at (a) increasing access to primary
education for children from remote and educationally under-privileged areas so
that they can participate fully in the national development; (b) improving the
quality and efficiency of upper secondary education, particularly in science-
based fields; (c) augmenting teacher training facilities on mainland Tanzania
and on Zanzibar; and (d) enhancing the capacity of key governmental and
parastatal agencies to manage resource flows in the education sector. To
accomplish these objectives the project includes the following items:
Primary education: construction, furnishing and equipping of
about 360 primary classrooms and related facilities in four of
the least developed districts; provision of teaching materials,
including textbooks, to sixteen rural districts.
Secondary education: construction, furnishing and equipping of a
demonstration school for the University of Dar es Salaam and of two
lower secondary schools; construction, furnishing and equipping of
facilities for about 23 new science and mathematics streams in
about ten existing schools and one new secondary school; reequip-
ping, refurnishing and rehabilitating of teaching facilities
for about 34 existing science and mathematics streams; provision of
100 staff-years of graduate teachers of mathematics, physics and
chemistry.
Teacher Training: provision of equipment for science laboratories
in four teacher training colleges and in the Dar es Salaam Technical
College; construction, furnishing and equipping of a new teacher
training college and renovating an existing college in Zanzibar.
Educational Quality Support Services: provision of storage
facilities, vehicles and fellowships to Tanzania Elimu Supplies
(TES) and to the National Examination Council (NEC); fellowships
for planning personnel; consultants costs for preinvestment
studies, project monitoring and evaluation.
42.       A particular objective of the project is to raise female participation
in the education system. At the primary level, girls occupy about 40% of the
places in the upper primary grades and 46% in all primary grades combined. In
the poorest districts of Tanzania these percentages are inevitably even lower.
With its primary education component, the project would increase the enrollment
of girls to the national target of about 50% in all grades. At the upper
secondary level, at present girls occupy only about 24% of these places, but
since about three fourths of the upper secondary places created by the
project would be for girls, it is expected that by project completion in 1986



- 14 -
the female share of places would approach one-third. This would in turn
directly increase the chances for girls to proceed to higher education.
Detailed Features
Primary Education
43.       New Primary School Facilities.  The Tanzanian policy of integration
of all regions and ethnic groups in the national development process appears
to be successful in respect to primary education, except in two specific
geographic areas: the Masai rangelands in the Arusha Region and, to a lesser
extent, the coastal districts of Lindi Region. The special socio-economic
circumstances in these two regions have made the Government aware that by
building its rural development policy too rigidly around the self-help prin-
ciple, it would condemn these areas to fall further behind as the rest of the
country achieves UPE. For that reason, Government policy is to assist these
areas so that they, too, can become able to practice self-help, rather than
face continued socio-economic isolation. In accordance with this policy, the
project would provide new facilities at primary schools for Monduli and Kiteto
districts in Arusha Region and to Kilwa and Lindi rural districts in Lindi
Region. Approximately 360 new classrooms with office/storage and sanitary
facilities for about 21,000 new pupils would be built. Since the classrooms
would be located in very remote areas, housing would be provided for teachers.
Given the low population density in the four districts, the villages to be
chosen and the appropriate size of the schools would be determined by school
location planning (SLP) criteria. If necessary, the services of a SLP expert
to aid the districts would be financed under the project. The Borrower would
forward to the Association for its review by June 30, 1981 a list of village
locations and school sizes with supporting data for the school facilities to
be built in those four districts (Section 3.06 of the draft Joint Financing
Agreement).
44.       Materials for Existing Primary Classrooms.  In 16 other rural
districts where community self-help has been successfully mobilized to con-
struct suitable classrooms, resources have been insufficient to furnish and
equip these classrooms. To realize the full return from the investments in
classrooms, the project would provide an average of US$250,000 equivalent to
each of these 16 districts to procure and deliver initial stocks of furniture
and teaching materials. This would reach about 16% of Tanzania's 1979 school
population. The 16 districts have been provisionally selected on the basis of
lower enrollment ratios than the national average; the final list would be
provided to the Association for its review by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.07
of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Secondary Education
45.       Secondary Schools at the University of Dar es Salaam and in Ngara
and Dodoma. The project would finance a Demonstration Secondary School (Form
I-VI) at the University Campus of Dar es Salaam and a new secondary school
(Form I-VI) in Ngara in Ziwa Magharibi Region, and add two new day streams
to the existing lower secondary school (Form I-IV) in Dodoma.



- 15 -
46.       Streams for Upper and Lower Secondary Schools.  As discussed (see
paras. 27 and 28) the present capacity of public (and private) schools to meet
the demand for qualified mathematics and science students is not sufficient.
The project therefore would support the construction, furnishing and equipping
of science and mathematics facilities (including staff houses) by adding 23
new streams in about ten existing schools and by rehabilitating and refurnish-
ing about 34 existing science facilities in about nine existing schools. To
increase female participation from its present low-level (see para. 31), 63%
of the additional new enrollment created by the project would be used by
girls. Class group sizes would be enlarged in order to increase further the
number of student places. It is the Association staff's view that this can be
done without reducing the quality of education. The project would provide the
extra dormitory accommodation to make this increase possible.  The Borrower
has agreed that the class group size would be enlarged by December 31, 1983
(Section 3.10 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
47.       Graduate Teachers of Mathematics and Science.  Teacher staff projec-
tions indicate a continuing shortfall of teachers for mathematics, physics and
chemistry during the project implementation period. The project would there-
fore finance about 100 staff-years of volunteer expariate teachers in these
subjects. The teachers recruited need not necessarily be confined to the
schools built or equipped under the project, provided they teach the designated
subjects in public schools. The Government would pay the volunteer teachers
salaries sufficient to attract qualified teachers from suitable sources.
As one of the consequences of the shortage of high level manpower, Tanzanian
teachers are often transferred out of active teaching or out of the education
sector entirely. To address this problem, the Government is considering a
number of proposals directed at retaining teachers in active service. To
ensure the availability of qualified teachers, the Borrower would provide the
Association (a) by March 31, 1981 with a plan including a timetable for the
recruitment of the volunteer teachers to be provided under the project, and
(b) by June 30, 1981 with a 10 year plan of action - which would commence in
1982 - for the training, posting and retaining of local graduate science and
mathematics teachers (Section 3.08 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
48.       Teacher Training.  The relatively low level of performance in
mathematics and science in secondary schools originates partially in deficient
teaching in the primary schools. The MOE is therefore setting aside four
colleges of national education to specialize in training science teachers for
the upper primary grades. The project would provide the necessary extra
laboratory equipment and textbooks for these colleges and replace worn-out and
depleted equipment for physics, chemistry and biology laboratories at the Dar
es Salaam Technical College to improve the training of about 35 laboratory
technicians to assist secondary school science teachers.
49.       In Zanzibar, the percentage of untrained primary teachers is about
48%. To reduce this percentage significantly and to supply additional new
teachers in Zanzibar, the project would finance the construction, furnishing
and equipping of a second teacher training college in Mkokotoni at the
northern end of Zanzibar island, thereby doubling annual output of trained



- 16 -
teachers from 200 to 400 per annum. The new college would enroll 400 lower
secondary school leavers into a two-year pre-service course. The project
would also finance some refurnishing and structural repairs of the existing
physical accommodation at Nkrumah Teacher Training College, the only college
in Zanzibar today. At present, some of the staff and student living accom-
modation at Nkrumah College is used by persons who either work or study
in other institutions around Zanzibar town. However, the Government has
agreed that in future the accommodation of both teacher training colleges be
reserved for the exclusive use of college staff and students (Section 4.03 of
the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Education Quality Support Services
50.       Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES).  Responsibility for procuring and
distributing all school instructional material rests with TES, a parastatal
under the control of the MOE. However, other than a modern warehouse facility
in the port area of Dar es Salaam, TES does not have an infrastructure for
delivering materials upcountry. The result is that REO's, DEO's and even
Headmasters, regularly have to go to Dar es Salaam to buy items and hire their
own transport for delivery, resulting in extra costs and a lower volume of
deliveries. Therefore the project would provide TES with needed capital to
finance 6 upcountry warehouses scaled to the expected volume of traffic, two
vehicles per warehouse, and 10 fellowship/years for TES staff to gain spe-
cialized training in procurement, stock control and transport management.
51.       National Examination Council (NEC).  Tanzanian candidates facing
selection to secondary and post secondary education are evaluated by continuous
assessment in their schools and by nationally standardized final examinations
which are set and administered by the NEC. Thus far with fewer than 200,000
candidates to screen per year, a purely hand-operated examination assessment
system has been sufficient. Faced with the rapid increase in numbers of
candidates in the next five years (an annual average of 500,000 Standard 7
exam candidates is expected), the Government is aware of the need to modernize
the examination system in terms of data processing, efficiency, security
against leakages and quality measurement of learning objectives. The project
therefore would help to build up the capacity of NEC by providing the second
phase to its headquarters building, about 12 staff-years of technical assis-
tance specialists in systems analysis, examination research and item develop-
ment, data processing, and computer programming and maintenance along with
about 32 fellowship/years in these fields plus statistics. The Government
estimates an annual financial saving of nearly TSh 7.0 million (US$850,000)
from installing the new system.  It would be in place in 1984 and would also
help process annually an average of 75,000 other post-primary examination
candidates. The facility could also be available to other users in the sector
outside peak load periods.
52.       Research, Pre-investment Studies, Monitoring and Evaluation.  To
operate successfully, certain staff in various departments of MOE and other
sector institutions like the Institute of Education need upgrading in skills
either to generate or to use research results. Thus, the project would



- 17 -
provide about 36 staff-years in fellowships for these personnel who, upon
completion of their training, would be involved in research activity. The
project would also provide support to the Government to carry out preinvest-
ment, project monitoring, or evaluation studies. The project would finance
the equivalent of about six staff-years consultant services and cover a
portion of operating costs incurred in the execution of specifically agreed
studies. The Government would provide the Association, for its review by
March 31, 1981, with the topics, terms of reference and staffing of the
studies to be carried out under the project and their costs (Section 3.9 of
draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Implementation
53.       The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), established under the Fifth
Education Project (Credit No. 607-TA) within the PMO to assist in rural
development programs would be responsible for overseeing the implementation of
the primary school component. The PCU, assisted by a team of specialists from
the NORDIC countries, has wide experience in Tanzania's rural development and
is qualified to implement the primary education component of this project.
The construction of the new school facilities in each of the four districts
would be under the direction of the DDDs (see para. 26) and actual construction
would be carried out through small rural contractors or local funds (the
Swahili term for local skilled craftsmen or artisans), rural construction
units (RCU) or the Ministry of Work's district division work forces. There
are major constraints facing Tanzania's building industry: (i) the con-
tractors' difficulties in obtaining local bank credit; (ii) long delays in
receiving payments for work done; (iii) shortage of skilled manpower and
qualified site foremen and engineers; and (iv) lack of available building
materials, transportation facilities and spare parts for machinery. These
potential problems facing the project would be reduced by (a) the DDD's direct
involvement in implementation8they will arrange for the purchase of all
building materials, and ensure their timely delivery to the building sites;
(b) the strengthening of the DDD's offices in the four districts concerned by
two volunteer building technicians for each office, each technician having
local counterparts (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Joint Financing Agreement);
(c) PCU's supervisory activities; and (d) import of building materials that
are not available locally but required for the civil works included in the
project (Section 3.01 (b) of the Joint Financing Agreement).
54.       The secondary school component would be implemented by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), an administrative and architectural unit established
within MOE for the implementation of education projects assisted by the Bank
Group and other donors, including the African Development Bank, UNDP, Sweden,
Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, West Germany, and the USSR. Local and
expatriate staff of the PIU and other sections of the sector planning depart-
ment of the MOE make up a total of about 100 persons. The unit is receiving
substantial technical assistance from DANIDA in particular; the Tanzanian
Government has concluded an agreement extending the ongoing DANIDA technical
assistance program to cover the implementation period of the project. The
necessary technical support staff would therefore be available during the



- 18 -
project implementation period and the unit, by its size and experience, is
qualified to implement the relevant components. The architectural, engineer-
ing, procurement and building supervision services provided by DANIDA to the
PIU would be free of charge to the project. However, in anticipation of an
increased workload for the PIU, it would become necessary to call upon locally
established consultants for architectural and engineering services. Approxi-
mately US$1.3 million equivalent would therefore be provided under the credit
for such services. The consultants would be selected and commissioned on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the
draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
55.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$55.5 million
equivalent, including duties and taxes estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$32.3 million equivalent or
59% of the net project cost. The foreign exchange component takes into account
the need to import most equipment, possibly building materials, and the recent
increases in the cost of fuel. Costs for civil works, furniture, equipment
and vehicles are based on results of recent competitive bidding and contract
awards in the Fifth Education Project (Credit No. 607-TA). Civil works costs
for new facilities for primary schools are based on a simplified design
benefiting from actual experience with an ongoing primary school construction
program. Average construction unit costs per square meter, based upon exchange
rates reflecting the scarcity of foreign exchange, are US$55 for primary
school buildings, and US$225 for secondary schools. Unit cost for academic/
communal areas per student place for primary school is US$95 and for a new
secondary school is US$2,200. These costs are reasonable in comparison with
other African countries. Technical assistance is estimated, on an average, at
US$50,000 per staff-year for expatriates recruited abroad and about US$30,000
if locally recruited, bringing the total to US$2.9 million. Physical contin-
gencies have been estimated at 10% of the base cost of civil works and pro-
fessional services, and 5% for all other project components. Price con-
tingencies are estimated at 33%. Details of the project costs are included in
the credit and project summary.
56.       The proposed credit of the Association of US$25.0 million would
finance about 45% of the net project cost. The credit would be on standard
terms. External assistance would also be provided by DANIDA with a grant of
US$20.0 million equivalent, representing 36% of the net project cost. To-
gether, the IDA and DANIDA financing would cover 82% of net project cost,
which includes all the foreign exchange costs and 23% of net local costs. The
Government is expected to provide US$10.0 million net of taxes (18%). It
would be a condition of effectiveness that the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the
Joint Financing Agreement have become effective (Section 4.01 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
57.       In any year during project implementation, the maximum Government
capital contribution to the project, inclusive of taxes, is not expected to



- 19 -
exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. This figure is 0.2% of the 1978/79 develop-
ment budget of Tanzania or about 2.7% of the educational capital budget. Re-
current costs generated by the project are estimated at about US$1.36 million
per annum. When the project is fully operative, this would be equivalent to
about 0.5% of the Government's projected recurrent budget for education by
1985/86 and 22% of the net increase in the budget from 1978/79 to 1985/86.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, textbooks and
vehicles, totalling about US$26.0 million equivalent including contingencies,
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except as
follows: (a) civil works contracts for primary schools, and other contracts
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent each; (b) furniture, equip-
ment, textbooks and vehicles contracts each costing less than US$100,000
equivalent; and (c) local transporation of furniture and equipment. These
exceptions to ICB, estimated at an aggregate of about US$5.9 million, would be
tendered by competitive bidding and advertised locally in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association (Schedule 3.A and D of the draft
Joint Financing Agreement). For purposes of bid evaluation, qualified domestic
building contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5% over bid
prices of competing foreign contractors, and domestic manufacturers of furni-
ture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate
of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign suppliers (Schedule 3.B and C of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Sketch design, draft tender documents and master lists of furniture, equipment
and textbooks, including proposed groupings, would be reviewed by the Associa-
tion. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competi-
tive bidding and to enable bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation
documents by the Association prior to award would be required only for con-
tracts above US$300,000 equivalent each for civil works and US$100,000 equiva-
lent each for furniture, equipment and vehicles (Schedule 3.E of the draft
Joint Financing Agreement). Civil works by force account are estimated at
about US$1.8 million.
59.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (a) 100% of foreign or 75%
of local expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85%
of local expenditures for equipment, furniture, vehicles and textbooks; (c)
100% of foreign or 85% of local expenditures for technical assistance, profes-
sional services, research and development, training and studies; and (d) 20%
of local expenditures for project administration. Disbursements from the
Association's credit and the DANIDA grant would be made pro rata in the ratio
of 5:4. They would be fully documented except for local expenditures for (a)
civil works by force account, (b) operational costs, and (c) project adminis-
tration. Disbursements for these components would be made against statements
of expenditure prepared by the PIU and PCU, the documentation for which would
not be submitted to the Association but retained by the Borrower for review
during project supervision.



- 20 -
Auditing and Reporting
60.       Auditing would be required on an annual basis for expenditures
financed under this project and in particular for work carried out through the
PCU (force account), operational expenses for project administration and local
transportation of furniture and equipment to school sites. Auditing would be
performed by auditors acceptable to the Association (Section 4.01 (c) of the
draft Joint Financing Agreement). Audit reports would be submitted to the
Association within twelve months following the end of the Borrower's fiscal
year. Semi-annual reports on implementation progress would be submitted
to the Association for its review (Section 3.04 b(iii) of the draft Joint
Financing Agreement). No later than six months after the credit closing date,
the Government would provide the Association with a completion report (Section
3.04(c) of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
Justification and Risks
61.       At both primary and secondary levels the project would increase
access to education for children from remote and educationally underprivileged
areas, and would improve the quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
the school system. At the primary level the project would supply 21,000 new
places and improve about 448,000 places, as well as help as many as
2,000 villages to have their own school building. At the secondary level the
project would provide about 2,760 new secondary school places (upper and
lower), make improvements to another 1,860, and provide teachers for about
5,000 students per annum. The projects' assistance to institution building
and educational quality services would indirectly raise the standards of
learning for virtually all students in the education system below university
level.
62.       The major risk for the primary education component lies in con-
structing schools in isolated locations in four least developed districts in
Tanzania. However, technical assistance would be provided to address this
problem. The chief risk applying to the secondary school components lies in
the uncertain supply of mathematics and science teachers. The project would
reduce this problem temporarily by providing teachers, but steps need to be
taken for a longer-term solution. The Government would be asked to provide
the Assocation with a long-term plan to remedy teacher shortages in the
science subjects to commence in 1981 (Section 3.08 (b) of the draft Joint
Financing Agreement).
PART V.   LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the International Development Association, the draft Joint
Financing Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania, the Kingdom of
Denmark and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 21 -
64.       Annex III contains special features of the draft Joint Financing
Agreement. Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be that
the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement be effective
(Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
July 8, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-22 -                                        ANNEX I
- 22 -                          ~~~Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGRTED AVRAOES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. [D.)                                                        - HST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL             945.1
AGRICULTURAL     498.0                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE ab   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                   70.0        120.0     230.0                 228.9                    726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       41.0         62.0      65.0                  a0.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      10.2         13.3      16.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.8            6.9      10.8                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        11.0         14.0      18.0                  27.4                    61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      21.0         26.0      34.0                  82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.7         44.4      45.7                  44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                          54.3        52.5       51.2                  52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          3.1       3.1                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.2          2.7       3.0                   2.7                     2.7
URBAN                               5.0          6.3       8.9                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0         47.0      48.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.0         19.0      16.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION BATE                ..          3.2       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            .
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           95.0        104.0      91.0                  91.8                    94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0         91.0      89.0                  90.2                    92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           44.0         49.0      49.0                  53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0         21.0      21.0                  18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      32.0         25.0      20.0                  27.7                    21.3
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0          47.0      51.0                  45.3                    50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        155.0C/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ,.         13.0      39.0                  23.2                    31.0
URBAN                                ..         61.0      88.0                  58.0                    66.8
RURAL                                ..          9.0      36.0                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      17.0                  28.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      88.0                  67.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      14.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          21020.0/d   24770.0   15450.0                30910.4                 14508.2
POPLLATION PER NURSING PERSON    10440.OL.de  3830.0    2760.0                  5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             570.0/d         ..      440.0               1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                *-          4.4        .
URBAN                                *2                     .
RURAL                                *-          4-5/c     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DSELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 23 -                                      ANNEX I
PaRe 2 of 6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMTE ).
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCCHE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  25.0        38.0       70.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  33.0        46.0       79.0                  74.2                     69.2
FPMALE                18.0        30.0       60.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0         3.0        3.0                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2.0          4.0       5.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0       2.0                   7.1                      14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  23.0            ..         ..                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
*                     PRIMARY                             45.0         46.0      50.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           20.0        19.0       20.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5/d      28.l1c    66.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         2.5        2.7                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0        11.0       19.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.3         ..                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                    3.0         5.0        4.5                   4.6                     24.2
CINEhA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            ..        0.2                    ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4734.5       5841.7    7035.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.1         36.6       34.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.3        86.0       83.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.8          5.0        6.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 44.7        43.5       42.2                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                  56.9        55.7       54.3                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                                32.8        31.5       30.3                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1       1.2                   1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          63.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         7.8
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                 ..          ..      147.0                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      109.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     125.0                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       74.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       10.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       60.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data aod is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1967;  /d 1962; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country.
April, 1980



- 24 -                                                                          ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORSSP                                                                 g          3 o
Notee;  Although the data eta drawn fro.  ofe  generally judged the meat authoritativ  eand reliable, it should also be -oted that they nay not he inter-
nationally  -oaparable  h.o.u. o*f the 1uok of standardised deinitions and ono..epte used hy diffS rant no            iint  collectting the dato.  The data are, none-
the1e... us.eful to dstriha ordare of magnitude.  indicate trends, and oharartt-in  tarnin maJor dlff-rr-a  between c.. outrie..
The-efnng   roups are '(I) the sam  otuntry group of ths sub) sot tou.try and (2) a onuo.try group oith onehthigier overugantn  than the country group
ofthe auhjat ...untry (enoept foe "Capital Surplus Oil Enportere" groap hthee vMiddle Ione- North Africa and Middle fEl." J. chosen b..oos. of etn..nger
enin-ulurlffinities).  In the referen.s grnup data tha averages. ... poyalontn weighted arloito-i  s...na for eath isodiontor and nb-ec                      I olyha-nt
l...at half af the    onisnagroup has data for that indototr.  Sino. the onvrage of ...unorisa  nng the indi-aorn dependa on the  -cilahility of
data  n  is non unif.-a, oatln  ut he enernisd in relating avrages of one indicator to oother.  The. en                    gr-e eo  only ce.Su 1in conperiog  the colo
ofoeindi.tatr at a ta eneng the toun.ory and ref-....t groupa.
LANE ulREA (thousand aq.km.)                                                                  fooclatiocpe b cncu- oh .       'oydl'tc  aovuao-  by tuatno on prut-toong phy-
To-tal - Tonal eurfeon ersa comprising land ansa and inland -aters.                            aioa:,   ullfird   co-a-dur-l  -choo1 at  -ovrnity leve.
Agri-ultural - tneteo   giolue  area ucd tsaporarily on permatetly                          Poultotpr        iunio  Pernoc - Populacivo divided by tuber of pract.icing
f.r crops, ynture..  mria  andkitchen gardena or to lie fallow; 1977 data.                  melt nod fetole gradvaetc.rns  pu-ni-alc               _Ien  ad aeitatnoea
Poocltnio  cer Houitol Sod - total  oobv,            rural - Populatico  (.totl,
lAP PE CAPTA 10$) -GNP pet .a.pita eanisat.es  t ourrent marhat ptios, o-l-               uthan, ud rural1)divided byhiob _lo  repcit  tabet of hoapita1 hedn
oulated by sm   nonaatathod at World Sank Atls(1906-78 basis)  1960,                          a-aihlebl  it public and private georr1 and apecialieed hospital and in-
19I, ed 1978 data.                                                                           habilitatio-cotra.Ropitelt are .Ceoblinheen.e yorpmaently ntaffad
bya,   ls t one.hyli. tEou.blihbteet   providing principally o_todial
EAtEGY CiN1ttl9TION PEt CAPITA - Annual ooa..ption of ooercia1 ene rgy (tool                    carear Inon incldd uppoeias   oeet  nld    elo   n    eia
and lignite,P ptroleum, naurl .a and hydro-, nuonr and geotherma  clot-                        oncoera non pe- -aetlyntaffnd by a phyniciac  (hut by A medical. anietut.
troltyf Y)in khiogrn  of coal eqiaetper capita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                           n-ra, nideife, n-.)  biho   ffor ic-patle a- oaodtinInd provide 
data.                                                                                          Iiitad range of radical facilition.   cr nainnicl purP.ee urbe  bosh.pi-
tm include bISOn prinvipalor.r        .. and .peialieed    onttain, and rota
POPULATIOS ASS VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                 hvnplain  oya  or ovo   h-gptni  un.d v-dcai end  atrri'ty cnot
Total Popalatin..  Mld-Year laillina).   As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1976                 Adnllalona pet fo-citaI led    otltuhr of adnlicnin. 00 or discharges
daa                                                                                          tot   iopat. .dIvided ty tIooro   fhd.
UrbanPopultio   Iereto  1tonal  -Rtio of urban noItotl population;
differen  definitiona of urban areas.myfferttounrbhlity of data                         HOUSING
aaog    norise;1,i960, 1970, and 1978 data                                            A-erac  lien of i..nebold (pov...n coo honerbold) -  2nla   un, and onra1-
Poultion  lo yna  hl - Curetpplto.rjoioaaebsdo   90                                        ndtheir main   aa   A bo-drr yr lodger nay or may c   be inoludad in
total pouainby age and .ao and tehir mortaity and fartilintp ratna.                       tha h ...ebhld for otatinttca1 puryose.
Pr.jeoti.. peraee.ntrs foe mortality eatse nomprise of three levelauasun                A-trenenuber of p....n. per ccc  - tcool. urbac, nod rural - Adreraaue
inn life  -opa-t-ncy or birth intr..sing nith v..untryt. per .apit. income                ba rf po..... per - roo.,i all -rbu, nod rural ocoupiad convetional
1eca, nod tamal  life enpautany  tbabileinig an 77.5 years.  The para-                    dwe1ingn,                                -1eciey   lvlng    cldennprntnttvouoad
notere for fertility nate also hav  three level  ustunJg dacline in. veocoplod parts.
fertili ty accrding to inc... level and Peat family Plancg pettrnate....                Actea tc El-etricit  (pooceo  of dwollrn  -  ool   rn    n  ruca1 -
la-b count ry in oh- en . aiaod Ott of thesa nine cbinationt of .rtroliny                 Co-vecionuI dwIllng    cih   letricity it liccig qart.tet  a  percetage
an:d fertillty trends f.r ProJ_ion  purpa-e.                                               of totol,  -nd,  v  rural dwelliog  r-otyt-vly.
ittiono.ry populatioo -Inanatoio..ary ppalanton tbare ia to growth iloor
the birth rate ia equal to the deseh rate, and alto thn age  t-utun   in-    iDUCATION
mat      ne .o.ntent.  Thin is  nbiev-d only after f-etility rates decline to            dutdiroletcno
,ba replaoe..soo level ci unit net reproduction ra te, oh. ecteh g...rutivc               Pimaro uchool -tonal, male ovA frt..an- Gco-  total, rue.I               nnl
ci  ume  ralans  tsef nactp.Tho etanio..ary populationsin   e                      enolon   fal   gs  tor  rmrylvlgsprtne   orepr  nin
esnimated on tbe baia of oh. proje-tad  haracterllion  of the population                    piuyebv-u   puattc_a  onrolylcldaoirtae  6-11
in the year 2000, and the rate of dnclino of ferllo   rate  crPlaeI.r  btalnr  fcc diff-net logohny of prinery education;for
aeci level. ~  ~              ~             ~           ~            .i           PP.. !-r - ..
Tear statid..nry porolatico in reached - Th. yea  what ntati..ary populatic-                   -ivnu ppi   r  bo.oo bv   th  officia  schoo"' e
si-e ban banornached.                                                                     S-coda    school - otl.t1 nob. end female - C-oputd  a ah-va; ......dary
PPoonleion Oetaity                                                                               euacoqlrntent fcv  yern ofopcedprimary isrcin
Per so. ha.- Mid-omer population per sqoaro kiloeter (100 heonarna) of                         yrcvidvs gEcera,voa- lnti       yr teaho  tralong I-tattu ions for pupib
noral area.                                                          unuall~~~~~~~~~~. 1y of 121.n 17 yearn of oge; c-rropondence  .rounse  are geonrally
Pee eq. hut. aicl-tara1 land - Coaputod - above for  ariulorl  o                               e-ncluded
only.                                                                                     Vocaticonal enr olnrot (corcen  of   ovdnoy) - Tocaloin...II-lit-Oc-
PPorlunion Aun Structure (pern..nt) - Childrso  (0-l4 ynarn), wcrkins-oge 115                    include tco l  inutio,c therpyrgrrns chich operate i.d.pa-
64y years), and retired (63 yearn andv) asperc...ntgo. of aid-year pnpv-                       dently or at depafoen-   of ..n..vndnry Icatitutin._
lation; 1960. 1970. and 19 S data.,                                                          u_ul-o_toe ret-n rnry   o   evdar,-Totul1 todentonravolld in
Porulation Grntnh Ra,te iPreteo) - total - Ao...nI grcerh rates of tonal rid-                    poiery and secodary ieoela dIvided by cunbrrt             .. ahers Ii th.
pea  ppuaton  fr 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-08.                                                bocroopondiog 1-orl..
PEpulelit irot   ae(eret.              n     - AnnualI grooth volta of urhac pOp.-             Adult literavy rate (percent) - Ltto...teadulta  (ablo no rtad and trite)
latione for 1950-60, 1960-70, end 1970-786..napeoc -naf  of otal. advlo  .poyn...io agod 11 yearn and aver.
Crud.e, Orrh Rat (pear tho...od) - Annual  Ive births pac thou..and of old-year
Populaion; 1960, 1970. aud 19 78 da ta.                                                 CONSUMPTION
Crude leath Rtle(_r thbauaaad) -SAnnual deaths per  hoo....d of nid-ynar                     Pas..ngnor Care (p.r toun   oualo    Panegrr cone  -omPrite motor
population ; 1960. 1970,an  1979data,                                                        cart touingla   hnegtprot   cldna loca   oro   n
ironsR trorductien Rate -Avenaga ou bet of daugheera a  oa   ill beer in                       allitery veicet-
he ora  rpoutive penind if abs enperteaten p...ent age-a pacIitfict-                      Rudic cRceivorn (r-rhb.....d populatior) -All cypro cf cec... ec  radJb
tltyrteeu aly five-year averags.  ending Sc 1960,197, end 1970.                            broodveta to goneru1 public per thoon..d of ppitc                 olde  unli-
Family Plant"    -Accencorn.Aunstua(tho-eand)- dAtnll   nubeo  anatra                         c--odJraelnr              ....oocion  v   v y-ram   ohm  reOilra,tion ofradio  n
ofbrhcnrldvceudrasle   fntonllt0pann    rie.                                       nni   fen    aafo   ntnoaonycob   oprbenotcs
rually  lannie-Onene prarnet of married nn-.) -iPrc...t.go  cO maried                   ..u.tino ffboliuhod lyiconu lug.-r
'tonen cf otiId-hbUrn  ago (15-Au pears  rho nin  hrth-c...stc1 d-vi-a  tc                  TO t-i-rn (per thonn...d vopulation) - IT  -eceo-r  for bcoadcaa t to
all married ocmen 10 sam  agn group.                                                         g-aat     ubi   o  thcut-d populooiuc;  ..clude;'n noicun-   ITf-reeivrn
PINE ASS RETEITIOlS                                                     ~~~~~inv .t curion an .In yearn oh- regintralont of T    ttnw   in rfe_t.
FOOD _ AND NUTR.ITION  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    leN...pape  Cirt.latict (per tbocerd rpclut .c -...o.ch  uvrg    ircos-
lae eo cd Prodationrt    Caia(991-0)-Ind-tcfpr cait nnal                                 nn of "daily gnrlitra   esae"   nieoaeidclph
Prdutie  f  llfndnodlie.    routin   ntadt  ao   nd find and                          licotico depond prinaril  tcrcniagcrlnw.I   scniee
Ia   1 alndar year basin.  Coetnditien  -aven primarygods  eg   ua n                     no ho "daily' it it eppear  a  lel .Icr times creA
loatead of suar) which ac  edibloondoonoenutrienoa(eug. ..ff.. erA         CineaA-     ol AttndaceItt -eyln  -r Y-an-lee    no. the n-nber of
te    r   nldo.d).  Aigghregt  poucinofoth      ,otry in bnd  nollcacd                               drn   h   nr  nldiug adminnico  to driv-Iolea
natiocal average producer print neihtai; 1961-65  17,ad IRgdat.                              aincbl  uis
Pertoic  nunLY of  nloriosIareo  fr.n   rnete  -Tepuned frye                                             t.
onryouvaet of t no  te    RpISesavilahein couctr  yer capita                  tABeR FOtCi
per day.  mailable  aPpl         oprin doetiBrodcto,  tportu  Into                      loto1 Labor F.0cc (thb...avdc)   E concll    cltP...c.s, icIudiog
noPor.    ad change  in stack.  Net sappllea stuuda anma  feed, neds.ond fonoen acd unecplvyod but ecciud.  hc.n. 'iv.a tudecta,  tc
qat'itie  cuedi  fand Pr-o.e.ing, end Ie...n in dintrihutin.  cRquiv-                   Dtfitlric.. to variv c...       tnatno   oprbo  16,17   n
aene were etimated ho FAO hesed on physiolngionl n..ede for  -t1a eoi-                     197h dota.
cIty and brao  cosdrigevrana  t-mp-r-ur. hbdy weighta~,, eg:eao(oceon) - Final  lohoon forea   eretg   f  on,obrfre
an  ann dinoribuoc    tpptio       n, and  llowin  101   trc..otfor we    t            irrlco(ecn)-Labor fvrrInfrtg  forruory   hoingad
bo....hold level ; 1961-65,1970  and  91977 data.          1                               fiuhing anper-tage of tvta1 labor fooct; 1060. 10970 and 1091  data.
Peo capita nupply of proni,, (aen   te  day) - ProteIn contant cf per otpito               lod.ntr, (orrent  - Labcv (foc- lv  ininog, otcutoc               aueturing
nrc  -opply of foodP.r day.  Net -upply of food is dnnd an abov.-   Ro-                    and electr icit. ctor sod gaonprragof tcre  lbor force;I96AI
..vnet  foc nil counrie -ttbliahed ho USDA provide for aicimo                          iRiov 976 dta.
allownce of 60 aramao   Pcrprti   pr day and 20 arase of animal  -n                                     ..,cco Ioonon(ccnu-cac  van  adOnee'fuup"tconor
puln  protein, of ehih 17 grno thold he animlpoen    Th-netand-                             cvty tr 00crptdatol.me,nd tnrlbrforn
animal pnocein as an avrage for the world, propc..d by PAD in the ThIrd                    190IRC   n   95dta. ThearIL'pricptocaeuefcin
World Food Survy; 1961-65, ilad 1977 data.97                                                                                   :,r                   .i.    .r.   f.-n
Per ncita  rotei  51rp   free19fn0  and7 nolne -.rti   upp  ffn    r                    ....s .occr f the Vpoplati-, ond long lIst tren.d.  A foe esti-
Frivadi~ Ico    ml  endn I  pu.s.. it gam  per dap;96-65, 1970l ao  190d           g.       m o   r  ft    ainln c
-d lr~    ii.   p:,Ip!,R  ::.pr  ay;   61  197    .d17 dt.      tc.....ic Dopsodeoco Ratio  - Ratio of ppoIti-c ceder 10 and h5 ud oe
Child (eara 1-uI) Silaly  tat  rne  thosad)   A An.uni deatha per  hb.u..nd Or                 on. _tbr ntat  labor fcr-
age  rou  1   yers,to nhildren  in, this aan group; for meat developlegcon
irls  atadeive  fomlife tablue; 1960, 19 70 and 1977 deta.                        ESCORt DISTRIEUTION
gtaini                                                             Peroantoae of P~~~~~~~~ ~~~~rivt  lote  Iboch in oath and hind) - R ..elo-d by rirhent
HELife lnarnra.1b(er)-Ae enme   fyaso   iermIio                                                  5pret   ihs     1 --orec, p-oo-  70 p..ce-c, end poornet or Perceot
at bIrth; 1961, 1900 and 197 dca..
infant scrv-linv Raet  (pra  thb...ad) - Annua  dn-hn of  Wnfo    under one year   POVERTY TARGET GOUOPS
of agepe  chtau..:d lice, birtch.                                                          Eatisund iAcln   oen   ccoLvl(t   r   aia      ra   c   ua 
AIce.a cc Safe Watr (ner_t of noolanlon) - nncal. urban, and rual-                             Aolo   oet   noelvli  ha   noelo                           ec   hc           ia
Nurbeofpol  fto              rban, and rural) wIth reasonbl  acest  ef                        uritionaly unvu diet pIo r-srtial nov-Turd roquireme..    iu not
waerapply(icue   tre ted    rfac  wucera oru tretd hut  -nrctastno-d                     afrorduble.
nateruoubaathat Orta prtecte   b-reboles  aprings, and a..nitrytello.) at          otloatd Reliatv  Pf.. trn  Icrc   nel(l   errycl ubnan   uu
p-rc-nngen of theirreprtc   poplatiana.  Inaoulban,reapnblIctr    ouieyoet    or   ee  incn-third o   vrg  pe                                                           H ita
fo...toin or atandpot boateLd no  mere than 200-c mtrs from    h.... map ha                  p-ro-l inrone vf the  octy                  1-clee  in deriv-d fron the .rur1
c--idor-d as  nig within r...utnubln acsof that h.una.  In rural aro-lengft-
canabracn  nol   mly oth- thehosotar nebro  of. the hou..ehold                             lee   itdut.ntn for high-r ccs  of lvif  t  rOn  ren
Ac  ct  aneto  pen  a   nroprtont  part of the dap in fthn            t            BtoardPultcSincalutO tttoonLel(rerat .- urban..
fonlc' waro   neda.                                                                      od uro -4 Perr1 oi ofpyino   (nu   ncrd)tuae u1lepo"
dccen tt.tore         d lavAl (I"P cto i ooloocn-                  let uran ind   h             .   ~l P     -     fPPIt--
diup'nI an  psoene  ofIohirraprierpulatioIa .  tIcrooc Alib                                                                  icconc u.. d 1ot1.taIco
preel coy.. inciudo the -1 cc rint and dinPus..   cith  or uit h-treac-to,                                             T          Aco .c hoalyin  codiPoorctlo    Departont
of bunco  .o.rrt  and  -ac-o-n-  by  -er-hbrne nyst-  or the one of                    .yi,18
IIo v _cindov  inimllar cnalo



TANZAN1A                                                                                   Page 4 of 6
Eoeneuli  D-oeelpnt DsaL  Sheet
Actual                                      Provisional                      Pro 'eted                            Av-rug           % Anneal1 G-tnh Reins        Shaeo
1972         1973         1974         1975          1976         1977         1979          1979         1980         1995          1990         1972-77          1977-95        1985-90         GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Millen Us $ at 1977 Prices)
1.  CDP                                                 2773.9       2662.2       3004.7        3119.4       3364.1        3542.4      3734.1        3890.2       4069.7        5105.8       6502.3           5.0             4.7          4.9             100.0
2.  GaIns from Teens ef Trade (TT)                      -161.0        -207.5       -348.9       -345.7        -69.9        -116.1       -135.2       -174 5       -223.4         251.8       -.7 4            .                .                           -3.3
3.  Cress Demantic Income                               2612.9       2454.7        2655.8       2773.7       3294.2        3426.3       3598.9       3715.6        3846.2       4854.1       6223.9           5.6              4.4         5.1              96.7
4.  leiports                                            1084.7        1010.8        895.4        839.4        751.0         802.4       1063.9        904.8        924.7        1102.8       1330.4          -5.9              4.1         3.8              22.7
5.   Exports - voloe                                   1054.7        1004.5        741.3        734.5         824.5        686.3        674.7        700.8         746.4        907.0        1164.7         -8.2              3.5         5.1              19.4
6.  Experts - TT adjusted                                893.7        803.3         546.5        493.7        681.1         886.3        539.5        526.3         522.9        655.2        886.3          -5.2             -0.6         6.2              19.4
7.  Unseuree Gsp - TT adjninsd                           191.0        207.5         349.9        345.7         69.9         116.1        524.4        378.5        401.8         447.6        444.2            .                .           .                3.3
8.  Total  Cstssptiom                                  2163.0        1986.3       2408.1       2555.0       2654.9        2986.6       3404.5       3421.1        3540.6       4371.5       5446.3           6.6              4.9         4.5              84.3
9.  1nvestment                                           640.9         682.2        755.7        669.3        635.7         671.9        718.9        473.1        707.4         930.0       1219.8           1.0              4.2         5.6              19.0
10.  Netiecu  S-vinSn                                     430.4        464.5         304.1        314.2        676.4         537.1        325.0        412.0        416.6         617.9        951.7           1.1              1.8         9.0              15.2
11.  D-onstli  Savings                                    449 9        468.4         252.7        218.7        639.3         439.7        194.4        294.6        305.6         482.5        775.6          -0.4              1.2        10.0              12.4
12.  GDP at current U8$                                  1564.1        1866.2       2239.1       2564.4       2761.4        3542.4       4335.7       4686.5       5393.1        9941.7      16603.0          17.8             13.8        13.3
B.  0ECTOR OUTPUT
(Nhsrn of GDP at 1977 Prices)l/
1.  Itdu-try                                              16.3          17.5         16.0         15.1          14.4         13.8         13.0         12.7          12.3         12.3          13.2          1.3              3.1         6.4
2.  Arlcoltore                                            51.1          54.0         46.8         48.6          50.4         51.0         50.8         50.4          50.1         48.3         47.1           4.7              3.8         4.4
3.  lervles                                               32.7          28.5         37.2         36.4          35.3         35.2         36.2         36.8          37.6         39.3          39.6          6.3              6.0         5.1
C.  PRICES
1.  Export Nries Indn                                     36.4         43.3          64.2         63.6          76.7        100.0         91.0         95.9         102.5        142.2        190.8          22.4              4.5         6.0
2.  IMport frice  Idex                                    43.0          54.1         87.1         94.6         92.8         100.0        113.8        127.7         146.3        196.8         250.7         18.4              8.8         5.0
3.  Terms of Tr-de                                        84.7          80.0         73.7         67.2         82.7         100.0         80.0         75.1          70.1         72.2         76.1
4.  GDP Dlflato-  (US $)                                  56.4          70.1         74.5         82.2         82.1         100.0        116.1        120.5         132.5        194.7         286.1         12.1              8.7         8.7
5.  Average Exehonge Rtei  (TSh/US$)                     7.143         7.021        7.143        7.414        8.379         8.274        7.689
0.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                                   1972-77      1978-85      1985-90
1.  ICOR                                                               4.40           3.93        3.72
2.  Lport Elas icity                                                 -0.22           0.11        0.77
3.  Average Dnmestie Savings Rate                                     17.2            7.3        11.4
4.  Average National SRvi.zs Rate                                      19 0          10.9        13.8
5.  Margainl National Savings Rate                                    -9.24           0.27        0.25
6.  Import/GDP                                                        29.8           23.2        20.9
7.  I-vest'ent/OSP                                                      2.40         18.9        19.4
8.  Resource Gep/GDY                                                    7.8           9.4         8.0
2/                                                                                                          Nrov.         frey. 
.. PUBLIC PINANC_-                                                                                                             Actto1       Actual        ERt.
(Million TShillige)                                    1965/66      1972/73      1973/74       1974/75      1975/76       1976/77      1977/78      1978/79
1.  Current Revenue                                       716         2357           3023        3946         3919          5250         6062         6702
1.1 TIo  r,-nenue                                         602         1927           2510        3161         3302         4644          5317         5721
2.  Current Expenditure                                   707         2223           2785        3961         3716          5022         5847         7670
3.  Govertnt S vings                                        9           134           238         -15          203           228          235         -969
4.  Poreign Grants                                          ..           62           214         377          469           626          709         1250
5.  Surpl-s Available fot Fiearnig
Sevelopeent Expenditure                                         196           452         362           672          894          944           281
6.  Develop=ent Expenditure                               238          956           1642        2225         2253          2763         3585         5057
7.  Overall Defici                                         ..         -760         -1190        -1863        -1581        -1869         -2641        -4776
8.  Fineelaig of the t eficit
Extern l Leans                                      83          456           467         661           564          777          660         1200
DSesestic Rorrevings:
B-nking Syste=                                   ..          269           521         834           570          ..           464         3195
Other                                            ..           25           202         368          447            .          1517          581
1/  Ic 1966 prices and 1977 indax base year.                                                                                                 EAIDA
2/  Cent-al Oa-ernmect.                                                                                                                      January 3, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                  Page 5 of 6
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(Million us$)
Actu,s_                                       Preliminary              Projection
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977         1978        1979        1980        1985         1990
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                                       384.3       434.6       476.0        467.0       63Z.1       686.3       613.9       672.0        765.2      1289.4      2222.0
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                                       466.1        546.8       779.8       793.8       697.1       802.4      1210.7       1155.3      1353.2      2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                          -81.1      -112.2       -303.8      -326.8       -65.0      -116.1      -596.8       -483.3      -588.0      -880.8    -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Income                                   -5.9         7.4        -5.2        -7.3        21.5       -18.7       -24.6        -47.5       -66.5      -137.0      -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments of which:                         3.2        11.2         8.9        -3.1       -17.9        -16.4       -15.8       -37.8       -55.9       -119.8      -239.2
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                   (-11.1      (-12.5)      (-13.6)    (-16.2)    (-19.5)    (-22.1)    (-24.7)    (-27.8)    (-35.0)   (-121.8)   (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)              )                -9.1       -18.6       -14.1         -4.2        -3.6        -2.3        -8.8        -9.7       -10.6        -17.1       -27.6
4.  other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                    -4.2          5.0        45.2        92.9        55.4       116.1        175.0       195.0       218.4       384.9        678.3
6.  Balance on Current Account                                -91.9      -114.6       -263.8      -241.2       -31.1       -18.7      -446.4      -335.8       -436.1      -632.8      -702.0
7.  Private Direct Investment                                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         5.0          5.4         5.7         6.1         8.6         12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                              14.0        18.6         6.5        34.9         2.9        13.9          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements I/                                          109.5        113.6       161.3       249.5       122.4       177.8        173.2       210.5
10.  Amortization 1/                                           -34.2        -23.7        18.8       -18.0       -21.9       -26.4       -26.8        -54.8
11.  Net Disbursememts 1/                                        75.3        89.9       142.5       231.5       100.5       151.4        146.4       155.8
12.  Use of IMF Resources                                         0.0         0.0        60.3        25.2        23.7         8.8         17.0        30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                              7.2       -17.9         7.5        -5.1       -38.3        35.1         60.0       120.0
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                                54.8        49.0       -47.4       -30.t        10.8       -26.0          0.0         0.0
15.  Change in Reserves (- = increase)                         -59.4        -25.0        94.4       -15.2       -46.9      -169.5       229.0         24.3
B. Grants and Loans Cemmitment
1.  Official Grants 2/                                           9.8       23.6         51.1       127.8       119.0       130.0       200.0        216.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                        65.4        107.1       260.4       151.8       194.1       197.3       225.3        269.9
2.1  IBRD                                                   -           -          65.0         30.0        37.0        53.0        25.0        66.0
2.2  IDA                                                   10.8        22.6        61.2         10.0        52.0        49.2        73.5        63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                     3.3         1.8          7.1        18.0        10.8        33.5        27.6        18.2
2.4  Governments, of which:                                47.1        82.8       127.1         93.7        82.7        61.3        98.3        30.0
Centrally planned economies                         4.9         3.0         76.5         5.4         -           -           2.6         -
2.5  Suppliers                                              -           -           -            -           -           -           -          80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                                 4.2         -           -            -          11.7         0.3         -          10.0
2.7  Bonds
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.i. 3/                                -           -           -            -           -           -           -           2.8
3.  Other M & LT Loans (where available)                       26.4         18.6         5.6         2.9         6.0         -
C.  Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitments                         49.2         83.4        63.1        56.4        66.6        56.8         45.5        32.8
'.  Average Interest                                             3.6         0.6         2.3         3.0         2.2         3.2          4.5         5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                   28.1         47.8        32.2        31.9        38.8        35.1        32.8         25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance grants.                                                                                                              EAIDA
3/ Represents commitments to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                             January 2, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                           page 6 of 6
Debtr and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976       1977        1978
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)             441.7       557.1       728.3       917.1     1029.2      1123.4      1213.1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                   835.5       987.3      1280.5      1359.0     1555.9      1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                      43.3        39.3        32.4        34.1       41.6        48.4        49.6
3.1 Interest                                                 11.1        12.3        13.6        16.2       19.5        22.1        24.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Serv:ce                                  ..         ..          ..
B.  Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                       11.3         9.3         6.8         7.3        6.6         7.1         7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                          2.8          2.1        1.4         1.3         1.5         1.4        1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                   14.7        10.3         6.6         6.4         7.6        7.0         5.8
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                            2.5         2.2        1.9         1.8         1.9        2.0         2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                               9.8         7.1        4.4         3.7        4.0         4.3         4.1
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                  23.5        20.8        20.7        31.4       17.6        22.2        14.5
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                         16.2         16.4                   29.2        14.4       1R49        1Z
3.  Net Trans fer/Gross Disbursements                         68.8       /9.1          .         92.8        82.1       85.2        858
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements             16.9        19.1        10.4        21.0       14.0        17.2        17.8
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements    19.4           21.8        14.0        28.2        37.2       37.8        31.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                       12.2        13.4        12.4        15.4       15.1        16.3        17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                  23.1       23.8        21.1        24.2        25.7       29.3        31.3
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                     10.2        15.3        20.4        26.4       34.1        33.1        40.5
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service               11.1        16.3        22.5        28.4        36.5       35.5        43.5
Outstanding December 31,i78
Amsount            Percent
(US $ Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                 209.9                    17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                           379.2                    31.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                    61.2                     5.0
4.  Governmaents                                                         714.1                    58.9
of which Centrally Planned Economies                              317.3                   26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                             16.5                     1.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                                18.8                     1.5
7.  Bonds                                                                 20.3                     1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.       1/                                            3.1                    6.3
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt-               1/                          1213.1                   100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)-                              1806.4                   148.9
G. Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total DOD End of 1978                      60.5%
j/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 40% of EAC debt.                                                                                                EAlDA
2/  Represents DOD on loans to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                               January 2, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed,
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 77.2          90.8
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   10.8      1.1
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                  10.3      1.8
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                         18.5      2.4
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                            17.5      9.0
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                           6.0      0.1
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                           21.0                    2.7
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                 8.5      1.8
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                               10.2      2.9
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                 10.0      4.8
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                                9.0                    0.8
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.0      6.1
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                             15.0                    2.2
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                               6.0      2.6
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                            18.0    10.6
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                   11.0      7.1
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                      30.0            10.1
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.0                    2.8
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                          9.0      7.7
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                 8.0      1.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                  15.0                    9.8
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.5             3.8
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                         3.5
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.2      5.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                         12.0    11.3
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                          15.0    10.8
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                    7.1
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                  27.5    11.5
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  14.0    13.8
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                     12.0    11.0
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                    25.0                   24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                  20.0    18.7
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                   12.0    12.0
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                            30.0    30.0
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper              30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                     20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.               11.05/                 11.0
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          25.0-                  25.0
S-24-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port
Engineering                                     2.5    2.5
Total                                                      276.7  41.5   431.3  357.1
of which has been repaid                                  8.9     -      7.7
Total now outstanding                                   267.8  41.5   423.6
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid            0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          267.8  41.5   423.6
Total undisbursed                                          122.3  13.9   220.9  357.1
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                               Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower        Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours             35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways             42.4               0.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours             26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                1.0
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                5.9
Total                                          244.8               8.4
of which has been repaid                     56.4
Total now outstanding                          188.4
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      188.4
Total undisbursed                                8.4               8.4
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF MARCH 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28. 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention. The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs.  However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles.  Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero Sugar
Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under construction, and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress.  Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975: Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next season is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed to December 31, 1980. Total project cost is now estimated at
about TSh. 109 million, an increase of approximately 5% over the appraisal
estimate of TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial
problem in providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education
Centers out of eight have started operating programs for village development,
education and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training
Centers are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance
and fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching funds dis-
bursed. Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of
the project are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing construction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. It is now necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement but might need further
extension. The technical assistance contract with the consulting firm "ORT"
expired in November 1979, and the Government is now recruiting individual
experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants.  KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. An EEC
Special Action Credit (No. 55-TA) in the amount of US$7.0 million, to be
administered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of this
project is being administered by IDA.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million, US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively. The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Indastrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably.  Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                      (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$31.5 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1980
Fiscal Year            Obligor             Type of Business      Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing         3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and           Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                       6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                      3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC             2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                             2.71    0.54    3.25



- 45 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
Seventh Education Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
a.   Time taken to prepare the credit:           8 months
b.   Project prepared by:                        Government of Tanzania
c.   First presented to the Bank:                October 1978
d.   Appraisal mission:                          May/June 1979
e.   Completion of negotiations:                 April 1980
f.   Estimated date of Effectiveness:            December 31, 1980
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
Special Conditions would be:
(a) provision of a list of villages in the four districts where
primary school facilities would be built, and of the final list
of sixteen districts where primary school equipment and furniture
would be provided (paras. 43 and 44);
(b) assurances that the official class group size in secondary schools
would be enlarged (para. 46);
(c) provision of a plan for recruitment of volunteer expatriate mathe-
matics and science teachers, and a plan for the training and retention
of local teachers in the same subjects (para. 47); and
Conditions of effectiveness would be:
that the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement
have become effective (para. 56).



