Document of                    F-L E           bv
The World Bank                       FIL               1t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2782-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
June 2, 1980
Education Project Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIA LENTS
US$1.00                         TSh. 8.30
TSh. 1.00                       US$0.120
US$1.00                   -     D.Kr 5.75
D.Kr 1.00                 =     US$0.174
MEASURES
I Meter (m)        2     =    3.28 Feet
I Square Meter (m )    =    10-76 Square Feet
ABBREVIATIONS
BER                  Basic Economic Report (December 1977)
CCM                  Chama Cha Mapinduzi, the governing party
CNE                  Colleges of National Education (teacher training)
CURE                 Coordinating U1iit for Pesearch and Education (MOE)
DANIDA               Danish international Development Agency
D.KKr                Danish Kroner
DDD                  District Development Director
DEO                  District Education Officer
ESR                  Education for Self-Reliance
FUNDI                Private local craftsman or artisan (swahili)
MMD                  Ministry of Manpower Development
MOE                  Ministry of National Education
NEC                  National Examinations CncCScil
PCU                  Project Coordinatinrg 2Tnit n uI der P1MO
PIU                  Project Implementati-o jiTiit , under MOE
PMO                  Prime Minister's Of Fce
PPS                  Project Planning SectionL (MOE), current name given to PIU
RCU                  Rural Constructi2o  U.,it
R&D                  Research and development activity
REO                  Regional Educatiorn Officer
SIDA                 Swedish International Development Authority
SLP                  School Location Plenning (school mapping)
Stream               This term applies to classes wherever the students in each
grade in a school are g-ruped into a constant number of
classes.  For example a  Lthree stream school" is one where
each grade has three classes.
TANU                 Tanganyika African National Union, former name of
governing party
TES                  Tanzania Elimu Sulpplies (alimu - Swahili for "education")
UNDP                 United Nations Developmeant Program
UPE                  Universal Primary Education
Fiscal Year
July 1 to J-une 330



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER DEMAND ...........1
Introduction   ................. ... .. ......................          1
Recent Development Trends and Prospects ............. ......            1
Meeting Manpower Requirements .....                           ...       2
Equitable Participation in Development   ..................             5
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN TANZANIA'S DEVELOPMENT        ...............   6
Education Policy and Strategy .       . ........................        6
Education Structure and Management ....................                 7
Primary Education ..................             -  .......             8
Primary Teacher Training .       .     .................                8
Secondary Education ...............................                     9
Post-Secondary Education       ....... ...... ........... .            11
School Examinations .........................................          11
Financing and Cost of Education .         ...........................  12
III.  BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN THE SECTOR.....          13
Past Experience and Lessons Learned ... ... ................           13
Lending Strategy .        .       ..........................  . .      15
IV. THE PROJECT. . . .    17
Objectives and Composition ................. ............       .      17
Primary Education            .. ...............  20
New Primary Schools in Four Least Developed Districts                20
Materials for Existing Primary Classrooms
in 16 Additional Districts  ............................          20
Secondary Education    ..21
University Demonstration Secondary School, Forms I-VI                21
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Tanzania in
May/June 1979 and included Mr. J. van Lutsenburg Maas (Educator/Sociologist
and Mission Leader), Mrs. N. Shields (Economist), and Mr. K. Andersen (Architect)
of the Bank Group, Mr. J. Smyth (Economist) of Unesco and Mr. H. C. A. Somerset
(Examinations Specialist, Consultant). The project was further reviewed
jointly with DANIDA in the field in October 1979 by Messrs. van Lutsenburg
Maas and Andersen and Mrs. Shields, and in March 1980 by Mr. Maas.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
New Math/Science Streams in Upper
Secondary Schools, Forms V-VI          ..........................    21
Existing Math/Science Streams, Forms V-VI ..         ...............   22
Dodoma Day School, Forms I-IV .............   ..    ..............   22
Graduate Teachers of Mathematics and Science .............    .    22
Teacher Training ............................................    23
Primary Science Teachers and Secondary School                      23
Laboratory Technicians .................................        23
Expansion of Primary Teacher Training Capacity in Zanzibar         23
Educational Quality Support Services ........... .. ...........   24
Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES)          .............................    24
National Examinations Council (NEC)              ..                24
Coordinating Unit for Research and Evaluation         .    .       25
Pre-investment Studies, Project Monitoring and
Evaluation     ....................... ......................    25
Summary of Technical Assistance  .......... .. ..............    26
V.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN .............................   26
Project Cost .....        ...........................................    26
Cost Estimates          ............................................    28
Custom Duties and Taxes ...  ..           ......................     ...... ....    28
Contingency Allowances . . ......................                  28
Foreign Exchange Component ...               .    .      ..........   28
Financial Plan ................    .............................    29
Recurrent Expenditures ......       ..............................    29
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT         . .... .    29
Implementation       ..............................................    29
Administration ...........................................    30
Reporting and Project Completion Report ..............     ....    30
Design and Construction .........       ..........................    30
Professional Services (A/E) . . . .............................    31
Site Selection ...   .......                     ....              31
Building Industry   .           ....               .....31
Procurement ... ...............................................    32
Disbursements            ..........................................    33
VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ...... ..................      ..................    33
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .... .....o    ........       34



- iii -
ANNEXES
Annex  1   - Tables and Charts
Table  1.    Total Manpower Requirement by Skill Category
2.     Meeting Manpower Needs for the Modern Sector
3.     Projected Opportunities for Form VI Leavers
4.     Comparative Education Indicators
5.     Primary School Enrollment Public and Private:
1970-79 Actuals and 1980-1991 Projected
6.     Projection of Public and Private Secondary School
Enrollments, 1977-1990
7.     Expenditures on Education and Training in Relation to
Total Government Expenditures, 1972/73-1978/79
8.     Projected Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education
and Training 1978/79-1985/86
9.     Project Cost Summary
10.     Implementation Schedule
11.     Schedule of Disbursements
Chart  1.     Structure of Education, 1978
2.     Educational Pyramid
Annex  2   -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File
Key to Map
Map No. 14718R



It
0



- iv -
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
BASIC DATA
Population (1978 Census)                                   17.1 mil.
Population growth rate (1968-1978)                         3.0% p.a.
Wage and salary employment (1976)                          457,000
GNP per capita (1978)                                      US$230
Education Enrollments
Public Schools (Mainland) 1979
Primary education (Standards 1-7)
- enrollment                                          3,274,604
- as percent of estimated age group 7-13 yrs          95.8%
- percentiof enrollment which is female (1978)        46%
Lower secondary education (Forms I-IV)
- enrollment                                          36,834
- as percent of estimated age group 14-17 yrs         2.6%
- percent of enrollment which is female               32%
Upper secondary education (Forms V-VI)
- enrollment                                          3,464
- as percent of estimate age group 18-19 yrs          0.6%
- percent of enrollment which is female               24%
University of Dar-es-Salaam
- enrollment of Tanzanians                            2,281
- percent which is female                             16.4%
Private Schools (1978)
Private school enrollment as percentage of:
Public primary enrollment                           3.0%
Public lower secondary enrollment                   55.9%
Public upper secondary enrollment                   6.2%
Education Expenditures
Government expenditure on education as
percentage of total Government
expenditure (1978/79 estimates)
Capital                                           8.3%
Recurrent                                         21.8%
Total                                             15.8%
as a percentage of GDP                            6.8%



4  b  4           I



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
APPRAISAL OF SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER DEMAND
Introduction
1.01      Tanzania is one of the least developed countries in the world, with
a GNP per capita estimated in 1978 at US$230. Preliminary results of the 1978
census indicate that within the last decade, population growth has averaged
about   percent per annum.  The average population density is only about 15
per km . About 95 percent of the population live in rural communities and
depend on subsistence agriculture as a means of making a livelihood. The
Government's development philosophy aims, inter alia, at (a) reducing in-
qualities in income distribution through state ownership of important indus-
tries, services and large scale agricultural enterprises; and (b) ensuring
that basic education is available to all the citizens.
1.02      Major constraints on Tanzanian economic development have been
(a) a lack of foreign exchange due to low export earnings and therefore inabi-
lity to import items which are essential for its development; and (b) a critical
shortage of high- and middle-level manpower which precludes a more efficient
use of its natural resources.
Recent Development Trends and Prospects
1.03      The mainland portion of Tanzania became Independent as Tanganyika in
1961. The islands of Zanzibar became Independent in 1963, and within a year
were joined with the mainland to form the United Republic of Tanzania. Since
Independence, the Government has initiated and carried out two Five-Year
Development Plans (1964-1969, 1969-1974). The current plan, the third in the
series, was postponed a year due to poor economic conditions in 1974-75. In
the current plan period (1976-81), the Government anticipated high real rates
of GDP growth. The expectation was that over the plan period, real growth of
the GDP would average 6 percent per annum. This has not materialized. Over
the period 1974-1976, the actual growth rate attained was 4.8 percent per
annum. With the upsurge in coffee prices and a good harvest in 1976-77, there
was substantial improvement in the economy, and the Government hoped that the
economy would achieve the planned estimate. However, since the latter part of
1978, the economy has been set back as a result of poor export performance and
the Ugandan war and the resulting shortage of foreign exchange. This has had
some impact on several sectors, especially the construction and manufacturing
sectors, which are dependent on the import of essential materials and spare
parts. Consequently, real rates of GDP growth for the plan period are likely
to fall short of what was planned.
1.04      Sectoral growth output rates have also differed from those predicted
in the plan. Over the period 1974-78, mining declined by 15 percent per
annum, and preliminary indications for 1979 and subsequent years point to the



continuation of the decline. Over the same period, construction declined by
6.8 percent per annum. Real growth rates in other sectors were below those
predicted in the plan. For example, transportation has grown at an average
rate of 4.9 percent per annum instead of the planned 6.5 percent per annum.
The growth of Government expenditures has been greater than that of GDP. In
1976-77, there was a sharp contraction in the annual growth rate of Government
expenditure from the high rate of 22.7 percent per annum in 1972-76 to 12.7
percent. However, this pattern is being reversed by the expenditures related
to the recent war in Uganda.
1.05      Sectoral employment has fluctuated considerably since 1974.  Public
sector employment in the period 1974-78 grew at an average annual rate of
3.7 percent. Within this period, total wage employment rose by 2.4 percent
per annum, with wage employment in commerce (including restaurants and hotels)
growing at 11.5 percent per annum. Employment in utilities, construction, and
finance declined over the period, with construction employment declining
dramatically at 12.7 percent per annum.
1.06      In the light of recent developments, including the acute shortage
of foreign exchange reserve and the decision to cut Government expenditures
by 10 percent, the Bank Group staff has revised downwards its estimates
of sectoral growth rates as well as the estimate of the real growth rate of
GDP over the remaining plan period. Assumptions on which the current projec-
tion are based are: (a) the attainment of 4.5 percent per annum real GDP
growth between 1978-80; and (b) the Government will adopt attainment of real
average rate of growth of 6 percent by 1990.
1.07      The development of manpower resources and their effective utiliza-
tion are key factors influencing growth in Tanzania. A widespread shortage
of trained high- and middle-level manpower constitutes a constraint on the
social and economic development of the country. Given the recent shifts of
emphasis by the Government in favor of mass-oriented primary education, the
fewer resources available for secondary and tertiary education and training
will need to be efficiently channelled to provide qualified and middle-level
personnel to those sectors considered crucial for the country's social and
economic development. It was in recognition of this factor that the Govern-
ment in 1975 created the Ministry of Manpower Development (MMD) with the
responsibility for forecasting manpower requirements, planning manpower
development, and allocating high- and middle-level skilled manpower. MMD also
makes recommendations as to the desired volume and composition of output
needed at the secondary and higher levels of education to meet forecasted
manpower requirements.
Meeting Manpower Requirements
1.08      At the time of Independence, given the small number of citizens
with post primary education, the most urgent need was to train the amount of
skilled manpower required to increase local, i.e., national control of the



- 3 -
economy. Priority was given to making up the deficiencies at higher educa-
tional levels until the minimum manpower requirements had been attained along
with a secondary school capacity which would match the needs of continuing
growth. Manpower requirements were projected over long periods so that
educational expansion had to be geared to this growth. 1980 was the target
date for which a balance between the demand the output of educational insti-
tutions would be achieved. Each Plan since Independence has contained a
projection of manpower requirements.
1.09      Subsequent to the preparation of the Third Five-Year Development
Plan, MMD prepared revised estimates of requirements and shortfalls of higher-
and middle-level manpower for the period 1975-80. Estimates of manpower
requirements for Category, A, B and C 1/ by the Plan were 8,276, 38,556 and
58,892 respectively. These manpower requirements have been revised by Bank
Group staff. Even with a lower than anticipated annual GDP growth rate, the
manpower requirements are estimated to be higher than the levels targeted for
1980 in the Third Five-Year Plan (Annex 1, T-1). The demand for university-
level professionals (Category A) rose from 8,280 to almost 9,430, a difference
of 1,150. The demand for subprofessionals requiring post-secondary education
(Category B) was 1.4 times more than that projected in the plan. Finally, the
demand for craftsmen, technicians, and other skilled workers having at least a
secondary-level education (Category C) was about 1,000 more than projected.
The main reason for this is that even though during 1976-78 the demand for
labor in the construction industry and some other sectors (especially finance
and utilities) dropped off, the requirements for persons with specific skills
in the public sector were high enough to compensate for any lessening in
demand in these other sectors. The skill requirements per unit of employment
in the public sector are 2.8 and 1.8 times higher for professional and sub-
professional categories, respectively, than in any other sector because of the
characteristic high demand by any large-scale, rational/bureaucratic organiza-
tion (such as parastatals or Government ministries) for persons with higher
formal qualifications.
1.10      It is estimated that the gap between supply and demand for higher-
and middle-level personnel in Tanzania will persist during the period 1975-
1990 (Annex 1, T-2). The continuation and the magnitude of the gap depend on
the Government's policy towards the expansion of training opportunities at the
secondary level as well as the policies towards employment of expatriates in
positions where the shortage is most critical. The gap is most pronounced in
1/   The categories in the Manpower Plan are defined as follows:
A - Jobs normally requiring a University degree (professionals).
B - Jobs which normally require from one to three years of formal
post-secondary education or training (sub-professionals).
C - Jobs which normally require a secondary school education for
standard performance of the full array of tasks involved in
the occupation. This category includes skilled office workers
and skilled manual workers in modern crafts.



- 4 -
certain specific professions including pharmacists, engineers, technicians,
science teachers and other professionals whose skills are science-based.
The critical shortage of engineers has been remedied to a limited extent by
the Government policy of exempting engineering candidates from the two-year
national service requirement. Even if the Government were to have succeeded
in its policy of replacing all non-citizens by 1980, and even if all vacancies
existing at the beginning of the current plan period were filled, the gap
between supply and requirements for Category A personnel would still be
approximately 5,500. A doubling of the number of graduates from universities
and other institutes of higher learning would be required to fill the gap.
1.11      The demand for Form VI school graduates will continue to outstrip
supply if the employment and in-service training situations remain at the 1978
level given the current relatively small class group sizes (Annex 1,T-3). It
is only after 1985, by which time the number of streams 1/ is expected to
increase from 84 to about 105, when the proposed seventh project begins to
have effect, that the gap would be halved. Specific shortage of engineers,
technicians, science teachers, and other categories of workers requiring
scientific knowledge were identified by the Manpower Report to the President
(1977). Yet, in 1978-79, there were no candidates enrolled in first-year,
university courses in veterinary science, forestry or hydrology, and other
science departments also had very low enrollments. Since 1975, enrollments of
first-year Bachelor of Science degree students have fallen from 174 to 100.
The general cause of this trend is that many student candidates have not
performed adequately in their qualifying tests for entry to science-based
courses (para. 2.10).
1.12      Faced with the prospect of persisting manpower shortages, the MMD
finds itself required to re-evaluate the approach to manpower and education
planning which it has followed for a decade. The year 1980 had been set as
the target for replacing expatriate high- and middle-level manpower with
Tanzanians. But, in spite of these ambitious targets, restraints were placed
on the expansion of secondary school output. This policy of restraint was
derived from forecasts of secondary school output which fallaciously equated
final year enrollments in each secondary cycle with qualified outputs, without
sufficient regard for the high degree of internal variation in the quality of
the graduating class. In fact, large numbers of secondary school leavers,
especially those in private schools, pass only in arts subjects. Yet selection
into further education or training after Form IV or Form VI, to produce
categories A and B manpower, most often requires qualifications in mathematics
and science subjects. This results in vacancies which are either left unfilled
or are filled with unsuitable candidates who require remedial education in
areas of general scientific knowledge. It is becoming increasingly apparent
that the sources of this "distortion" in the supply of trainable manpower can
1/   The term "stream" refers to classes wherever the students in each grade
in a school are grouped into a constant number of classes. Thus, for
example, a "three stream school" is one where each grade has three
classes.



- 5 -
be found in: (a) recent imbalances in the secondary school curricula; and (b)
the relatively low cognitive performance throughout formal schooling in
mathematics, the physical sciences and English. This is discussed further in
paras. 2.10-2.11 below.
Eguitable Participation in Development
1.13      A consistent theme in Tanzania's development policy has been the
integration of all geographic regions and ethnic groups in the national
development process. Perhaps in no sector is this imperative more pronounced
than in the education system, which is popularly perceived to be the main
access route to reaping a fair share of benefits from the national development
process as well as for developing tools for self-improvement. The imperative
of equal educational opportunity for all groups has been translated into
specific educational policies such as universal primary education (UPE), uni-
versal use of Swahili as the medium of instruction in primary schools, and
an elaborate regional and district quota system for allocating Form I places
in Government secondary boarding schools as an overlay to meritocratic selec-
tion criteria (para. 2.16).
1.14      Although the distribution of educational opportunities resulting
from these policies appears increasingly equitable, a few discernible pockets
of poverty persist, toward which the Government is determined to direct
a special infusion of capital resources. Since the Government Decentraliza-
tion Act of 1972 and the Village Act of 1975, increased responsibility for
local development activities such as primary school expansion has been
devolved to District and, recently, village authorities who must organize
communal self-help actions and can expect only modest Government financial
contributions. In most of Tanzania, socio-economic preconditions for self-
help contributions to popular projects such as classroom construction have
been strong enough to permit a rapid increase in the number of classes needed
to cope with UPE. However, in at least two specific geographic areas, the
Masai rangelands in Arusha Region and, to a lesser extent, the coastal
districts of Lindi Region, community self-help has been hampered by local
social and/or physical conditions. In the case of the Masai areas, settled
villages are themselves a very recent innovation in the traditional pattern of
transhumance. Through special efforts by the Government, the traditional
Masai pastoral economy is undergoing a rapid transformation: cattle owners
are being given secure seasonal grazing rights, village boundaries are being
made exceptionally large in order to include both lowland and highland
pastures, and cattle disease control and auction facilities are being
established to raise Masai incomes. The Masai themselves are responding to
this opportunity to acquire a viable commercial stake in development by
becoming mixed crop and cattle owning farmers. For the first time, they are
having houses built from permanent materials, an indication of sedentariza-
tion. As the opportunity costs of schooling (from herding) continue to
decline, it is expected that they will demand rather than merely accept more
education for their offspring.
1.15      In the coastal areas of Lindi region, the hindrances to active
community self-help activity derive more from physical isolation and hardship



- 6 -
and a long legacy of human resource depletion. Before the colonial period,
the area was victimized and disorganized by the depredations of the slave
trade; subsequently, the area became a net exporter of labor to neighboring
regions or countries. Recent developmental and commercial efforts are
handicapped by physical isolation for over half of each year, when the rains
cut the road network in the low-lying areas along the coast.
1.16      The special socio-economic circumstances in these two regions
have made the Government aware that building its rural development policy
(especially as it is embodied in UPE) too rigidly around the self-help
principle will condemn these areas to fall further behind as the rest of the
country achieves UPE. For that reason the Government policy is to assist
these areas now so that they, too, eventually become able to practice self-
help, rather than face continued socio-economic isolation.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN TANZANIA'S DEVELOPMENT
Education Policy and Strategy
2.01      Since Independence (1961) Tanzania has turned to education with an
increasing conviction that human resource development forms an integral part
of national development. Tanzania's First Five-Year Development Plan (1964-
69) focused on rapid economic growth. It gave priority to self-sufficiency
in high- and middle-level manpower by 1980 and called for a comprehensive
education system for adults and children as soon as financially possible.
Following the Arusha Declaration in 1967, President Nyerere sharply criti-
cized elitism, neglect of rural areas, lack of practical experience in formal
education, and laid down the guidelines for reform in his policy of Education
for Self-Reliance (ESR). Priorities shifted to favor basic education for the
entire population. Education content was to be aimed at the rural environment
where approximately 90 percent of the Tanzanian people live. To this end,
farming and practical subjects were introduced in schools with the multiple
intentions of teaching manual skills, correcting negative attitudes to such
skills, and earning an income for the school.
2.02      The Arusha Declaration and ESR supplied the conceptual foundations
for the education aspects of the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74), according
to which UPE was to be achieved by 1989. In this context, the primary school
was to become a "community center," a focal point for meeting the educational
needs of the whole community, adults as well as children. In addition, a
national literacy program was launched to eradicate illiteracy. By the end
of 1975, cumulative enrollments in literacy classes had reached 5.2 million
or nearly 90 percent of the estimated number of adult illiterates. Despite
this f-ocus on UPE and mass-oriented education, the target of reaching self-
sufficiency in higher middle-level manpower by 1980 was retained.



- 7 -
2.03      In 1974, the Tanganyika African National Union (TANU) 1/ Executive
Committee reviewed the successes and failures in implementing ESR. The
resulting Musoma Resolution declared that UPE be advanced to November 1977.
It also declared that in addition to a year of national service, university
candidates would engage in two years of work experience and receive satis-
factory evaluation from both their employer and their local TANU branch
before continuing to higher education. Other parts of the resolution stressed
existing educational policies of diversified secondary education, practical
skills, and self-reliance (income-earning) activities in the schools. The
Third Five-Year Plan (1976-1981) essentially reiterated the objectives spelt
out in the previous plan as modified by the Musoma Resolution, but introduced
the goal to increase female enrollment in secondary education, which had
previously lagged.
2.04      After successfully universalizing Standard 1 (para. 2.05) intake in
November 1977 (para. 2.06), the Ministry of National Education (MOE) estab-
lished an internal Committee for Educational Consolidation in 1978 to take
stock of major. sectoral issues and constraints and issue new directives to
alleviate problems within its own jurisdiction. In 1979 the Committee began
reporting out recommendations which the MOE is implementing by administrative
circulars to the schools. Thus far, these deal primarily with primary teacher
training (para. 2.07) and secondary schools (para. 2.11).   The policy adjust-
ments emanating from the Committee on Consolidation reflect a widespread
public concern to counteract any deterioration in cognitive attainment levels
in the aftermath of a series of unprecedented educational innovations:
curriculum diversification in both primary and secondary schools; rapid
reduction in numbers of expatriate teachers at secondary schools; a rapid
increase in primary school enrollment; creation of 320 "post-primary technical
sections;" a crash program of training 43,000 teachers in five years for UPE;
mass adult literacy campaigns; and national service plus two years work
experience before university entrance. Without yet judging the relative
successes of these major, concurrent undertakings, the new, more pragmatic
priority which is emerging is to do fewer things better to help the system
absorb the best of the changes, and, through more systematic evaluations move
away from those which have not worked well. To accomplish this the MOE is
reorganizing itself internally to promote the use of research, evaluation, and
monitoring in its policy-making while supporting a major strengthening of such
important semi-autonomous support services as the National Examinations
Council (NEC) and Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES), which markets school teaching
materials.
Education Structure and Management
2.05      The structure of the formal education system (Annex 1, C-1 and C-2)
consists of primary education (Standards 1-7), lower secondary education
(Forms I-IV), upper secondary (Forms V-VI), and tertiary education provided
primarily by the University of Dar-es-Salaam and Dar-es-Salaam Technical
1/   Since February 1977 the governing party is Chama Cha Napinduzi (CCM).



- 8 -
Collegre. This basic structure is supplemented by a range of forma' and
nonformal specialized training programs under a variety of Ministries.
The MOE is responsible for operation of secondary schools, colleges of
national education and technical colleges. Local administration of primary
and adult education is decentralized in accordance with the Decentralization
of Government Administration Act of 1972. The key official in this adminis-
trative structure is the Regional Education Officer (REO), who is responsible
administratively to the Regional Development Director and professionally
to the MOE. At the district level the District Education Officer (DEO) is
admin:istratively responsible to the District Development Director (DDD) and
professionally to the REO. Both the REO and DEO are assisted by officers
responsible for primary school inspection, adult education and supplies and
logistics services. In addition, each Village Council set up since 1975
under the Village Act has an Education Committee which is increasingly
responsible for raising self-help support for primary school construction.
Primary Education
2.06      The highest policy priority in the education sector in recent years
has been the bold, national effort to attain UPE. The increases in enrollments
(Annex 1, T-5) bear witness to a dramatic achievement: enrollments grew from
one million in 1972 to three million in 1978. Nearly all children 8 to 13 not
previously enrolled were taken with those seven year olds into Standard 1 in
the great UPE bulge (906,000 pupils) of November 1977. Hereafter, Standard 1
intakes should consist almost entirely of seven year old children. In 1979,
555,550 pupils were enrolled in Standard 1. This figure represents about 94
percent of the seven year age group. By 1984, the 1977 UPE intake "bulge"
will complete Standard 7 when overall primary enrollment will peak at just
below 4 million pupils. Barring major setbacks, beginning in 1985 the primary
cycle will settle into a "steady state" where enrollment growth will be deter-
mined by the birth rate, where teacher demand is stabilized, and where at
least access to school will be equalized. The new challenges will be in pro-
moting equity in cognitive performance and reducing dropout and repetition.
The newly built classrooms in many districts are providing few if any of the
basic conditions for a learning environment. In particular, simple furniture
is missing, requiring pupils to sit on the floor. Initial stocks of textbooks
and other teaching materials are also missing, forcing teachers to fall back
onto rote methods of teaching.
Primary Teacher Training
2.07      To cope with the huge increase in teacher demand brought on by
the acceleration of the UPE target date from 1989 to 1977, the Government
with support from SIDA, embarked in 1976/77 on a bold five year program to
train roughly 43,000 new teachers through mainly distance-learning techniques.
The candidates were themselves only primary school leavers. The program is
over half-completed and showing positive signs of meeting the emergency
effectively. Realizing however, that the program did not permit a comprehen-
sive training, the MOE is already planning a continuing in-service residential
program to start in 1981 to fill gaps in the background and training of these



- 9 -
new teachers0 Nonetheless, the fact that so many new teachers will qualify in
so short a time interval, and at so low a cost will eliminate the need for
short-term capital expansion of teacher training colleges on the mainland
which would become redundant in the medium-term once the bulge is met.
2.08      While the prospects are good for meeting the increased demand for
primary teachers on the mainland, the situation in Zanzibar in this respect is
less satisfactory. In the first place, Zanzibar was not included in the
mainland's distance-learning scheme for filling the teacher gap. Secondly,
1,650 or about half of Zanzibar's roughly 3,300 primary teachers are untrained.
As a result of its own drive toward UPE, Zanzibar expects enrollment to go
from about 104,000 in 1979 to about 150,000 by 1985, generating a need for
about 1,000 new teachers by 1985. An additional 600 teachers are needed over
6 years to replace those lost through attrition. Thus, the total six-year
requirement is for about 1,600 new teachers. However, existing institutional
capacity for training new teachers is about 200 teachers per year. It is
clear from this that the numbers of untrained teachers will continue to grow
until Zanzibar's teacher training capacity is substantially increased.
Secondary Education
2.09      In 1978, lower secondary enrollments (Forms I-IV), both public
and private, amounted to 59,000 students or 4 percent of the 14 to 17 year
age group of mainland Tanzania. However, the state-supported and managed
public schools accounted for only 37,900 or 64 percent of this, making it one
of the smallest public secondary school systems in the world relative to size
of population (Annex 1, T-4 and T-6). The public school share has declined
steadily in the past decade as the Government has resisted social demand for
more schooling by adhering strictly to manpower demand guidelines set by MMD
(paras. 1.07-1.11). Private schools have expanded rapidly to meet the demand,
which is expected to grow stronger in the years ahead as Standard 7 enrollment
approaches a peak of 715,000 in 1984, before dropping back to just below
500,000 directly thereafter. By current forecasts, the promotion rate into
public secondary school Form I from Standard 7 of primary school will fall
from 5.4 percent in 1978 to about 2 percent in 1986, i.e., even after Standard
7 output has settled into a "steady state." Under those circumstances it is
likely that, in spite of recent restrictions, social pressure will bring forth
a continuing increase in private school enrollments. It is projected that the
Form I intake into private schools will overtake intake into public schools as
early as 1982 (Annex 1, T-6). However, the quality among private schools, on
average, is decidedly inferior to the quality of public schools.
2.10      Notwithstanding the deliberately slow increase of public secondary
school enrollment of about 3 percent p.a., performance in final examinations
at Form IV and VI levels in scientific subjects has recently fallen from
already low levels. For example, at Form VI only 50 percent, 49 percent, and
40 percent of the students taking mathematics, physics and chemistry, respec-
tively, passed in those subjects in 1977. Yet, these are precisely the sub-
jects given the greatest priority for qualifying either to continue in educa-
tion, or to enter training programs or direct employment. Meanwhile, the num-
bers of students qualifying in arts subjects (other than English language)
or in the newer practical bias subjects such as home economics, agriculture,



- 10 -
and commerce, appear to be sufficient to meet demand. The private school
contriLbution to the supply of qualified Form IV and VI leavers in the high-
demand science subjects is negligible since 89 percent of their students fail
in math, physics and chemistry. With very few exceptions, private schools
generally lack adequately equipped facilities and qualified staff for these
subjects and consequently produced inferior results.
2.11      The MOE has recently begun to remedy these critical imbalances
by shifting teaching time away from the practical bias subjects and to
the sciences, and mathematics. Until 1979 students were expected to take! as
many as 17 (out of about 42) periods a week in their practical bias subject-
This change should raise the percentage of Form IV students studying chemistry
and physics from less than 50 percent at present. However, significant
increases in the pass rates on examinations will depend heavily on having more
university trained teachers available to teach the sciences. Since 1965 the
percentage of secondary school teachers who are university graduates has
fallen steadily from 73 percent to 46 percent in 1977. The end of the decline
is not in sight due to the high rate of transfer out of active teaching by
such graduates.  At present, only 43 percent of math and science teachers in
public secondary schools have attended university, and some of these are
non-Tanzanians.  Since the secondary schools are themselves the source for
increasing the supply of teachers, a temporary infusion of expatriate maths,
physics and chemistry teachers is required to break the present vicious
cycle.
2.12      A further characteristic of secondary schools is the low enrollment
of girls, which has remained at about 30 percent of Forms I-IV in public
schooLs since Independence. Their share of Form V-VI enrollment was 24
percent in 1979.  Part of the demand for private schooling appears to
satisfy the increased but unmet demand for girl's education. During the last
decade female intake into private schools has tripled to the point where they
now occupy about 37 percent of Forms I-IV in private schools. The Government
is increasingly determined to rectify this overall imbalance between the
sexes by requiring new lower secondary schools to be coeducational and
opening streams for females at the upper secondary level.
2.13      In conclusion, the secondary school sub-sector will require creative
policy-making in the coming decade as it gives rise to several interrelated
issues concerning:  the quality of learning in both public and private schools;
calibre of staff; appropriate size of enrollment and output; male-female
balance; class size; and, finally, unit operating costs which are raised by a
high proportion of boarding in the public schools.  The day/boarding issue is
intertwined with complex admission policies for children from urban and rural
districts. Present quotas in-practice give distinct advantages to Standard 7
pupils from a few of the urban areas, even though this is not intended. To
deal with some of these issues the Government has undertaken a major secondary
school resources survey with financial assistance from the Fifth Education
Project (Credit 607-TA) and is planning to carry out an Education Sector Study
in 1980/81 within which secondary school issues and constraints will receive
specific attention (para. 3.12). Finally, it has given prominence to specific
aspects of secondary education in its request for this proposed Seventh
Education Project.



- 11 -
Post-Secondary Education
2.14      After completing Form IV, students who continue their education may
attend upper secondary school for two years and thereafter proceed either to
university, or to various semi-professional diploma courses, but only after
completing national service and two years of work. Alternatively, they may
enroll in one of the many post Form IV colleges and institutes offering
specialized training. These offer over three times more opportunities for
further studies than upper secondary schools: in 1978 of some 12,500 Form IV
leavers, nearly 2,000 entered Form V while approximately 6,500 entered other
training. Excluding adult education centers, in 1976 there were approximately
120 colleges and institutes operated or supported by the Government with a
total enrollment capacity of about 24,000 students, or an average of 200
students per institution. Maintaining high utilization rates in some of these
institutes is proving to be difficult due to the inadequate qualifications of
many candidates.
2.15      In 1970, the three constituent colleges of the University of East
Africa became three separate universities in Uganda, Kenya and Dar-es-Salaam
in Tanzania. The University of Dar-es-Salaam comprises Faculties of
Arts and Social Sciences, Law, Medicine, Engineering, Science and Agriculture.
The University's Department of Education provides pre-service training for
graduate secondary school teachers and teachers college tutors. In 1978/79
university enrollments totalled about 2,300 but some faculties are operating
at only 60 percent of capacity due to a dearth of qualified candidates. In
addition, nearly 140 Tanzanian students were enrolled in degree or diploma
courses in Uganda and Kenya and 800 in post-secondary courses overseas.
School Examinations
2.16      As in virtually all societies, Tanzania's examinations at the end
of primary and secondary schooling are and will continue to be among the main
determinants for general classroom behavior by teachers and students alike.
This energy can be channelled with either good or bad effect educationally.
As part of the Musoma Resolution (para. 2.03) Tanzanian candidates facing
selection to secondary and post-secondary education are evaluated both by
"continuous assessment" in their own schools of origin as well as by nation-
ally standardized final examinations which are set and administered by the
NEC, together with the REO in the case of primary leaving exams. Given the
imperative of equitably choosing the most talented youth who will eventually
fill the relatively limited number of high-level positions on which the
national interest depends so much, without sacrificing the basic education
needs of the vast majority who will not continue further with formal school-
ing, the task of developing and administering efficient examinations is among
the most technically exacting and vital functions in the education sector.
Thus far, with fewer than 200,000 candidates to screen per year, a purely
hand-operated examination/assessment system has sufficed. However, this has
been at very high staff costs since the primary exam alone occupies nearly
half of each REO's year at present. Faced with the rapid increase in numbers
of candidates in the next five years, the Government is acutely aware of the
need to modernize the examination system in terms of data processing efficiency,
security against leakages, and quality of measurement of learning objectives.



- 12 -
Financing and Cost of Education
2.17      Education and training activities are largely financed by the
Government with parents and the private sector bearing a relatively minor
share of the education expenditure. Total public expenditure for education inL
1978/79 was budgeted at T.Shs. 1,975 million (US$241 million equivalent) and
accounts for 15.8 percent of total Government expenditure or about 6.8 percent
of th,e GDP (Annex 1, T-7). The share of education of the total Government
expenditure was slightly below the corresponding median for similar developing
countries while, as a proportion of the GDP, Tanzania's position was slightly
higher compared with other countries of a similar per capita income level.
This is mainly accounted for by the comparatively large size of the Government
sector in relation to GDP in Tanzania.
2.18      A quarter of the total expenditure in education anrd training in
1978/79 is capital expenditure. In the seven years since i972/73 when
administrative responsibility for primary and adult educatic-a was devolved to
the regions and districts, capital expenditure on education and training has
averaged about 8 percent of total Government expenditures. For the Third
Five-Year Plan (1976-81), the expectation is that the level of expenditure
will remain the same. The level of capital expenditure during the current
plan period shows the high priority the Government has given to education and
training compared with the Second Plan period. It also indicates the growing
importance of primary compared to secondary educational investments and the
increase in teacher training facilities.
2.19      Foreign assistance for education is received from a variety of
donor agencies. Out of the total T.Shs.197.8 million (US$24.4 million)
worth of expenditures under ongoing projects under the MOE, in 1978/79,
approximately 81 percent of total project costs was accounted for by external
funding. The largest sources were: Sweden (T.Shs. 66.7 million), Denmark
(T.Shs. 27.1 million), Netherlands (T.Shs. 17.2 million), W. Germany (T.Shs.
16.3 million) and the IDA (T.Shs. 14.8 million).
2.20      In 1978/79 recurrent expenditures in education and training amounted
to T.Shs. 1,517 million or 21.8 percent of the total Government recurrent
expenditures. The corresponding share in 1977/78, when the main impact of
the introduction of UPE was felt, was 23.6 percent and the overall average
for the seven years 1972/73-1978/79 was 20.9 percent (Annex 1, T-7). Just
under half (47.2 percent) of the total recurrent expenditure on education
and training in 1978/79 was accounted for by the MOE; regions and other
Ministries accounted for 35.1 percent and 17.7 percent respectively. The
main changes in the distribution of recurrent expenditure by level and type
of education in the period 1972/73-1978/79 were significant increases in the
shares for primary education (from 34.5 percent to 42.8 percent) and teacher
training (from 5.7 percent to 9.2 percent ), decreases for all other categories,
notably secondary education (from 16.4 percent to 10.2 percent) and traiining
outside the MOE (from 21.9 percent to 17.7 percent). The large increase for
primary education is due to the introduction of UPE. The latter had a major
impact on the recurrent expenditure budgets of the regions: in 1978/79
primary education accounted for 33 percent of the Regions' total recurrent
expenditures.



- 13 -
2.21      The outlook for Government recurrent expenditure on education and
training is more hopeful than was anticipated three years ago in the 1977 Basic
Economic Report (BER) when it was feared that the introduction of UPE would
have insupportable recurrent expenditure implications. This changed outlook
reflects the fact that the most recent growth of primary enrollments (1979)
has proven to be more moderate than was projected. For example, enrollment
totals of 2.8 million and 3.5 million were projected for the years 1976/77 and
1977/78 respectively, whereas the corresponding actual enrollments (public and
private schools) were 2.3 million and 3.0 million. This, difference was due
to the use of a narrower age definition of the target population for whom
school enrollment was made compulsory in 1977/78. On the basis of new enroll-
ment projections (Annex 1, T-5) derived from the recent census and 1979
enrollments, recurrent expenditure on primary education is not expected to
increase above on annual average compound rate of 5 percent between 1978/79
and the end of the Fourth-Five Year Plan in 1986. The prospective rate of
growth of total recurrent expenditure on education and training is projected
rather lower, at 4 percent, annually because only a marginal increase in
enrollments is foreseen under the MOE's presently conservative plans for the
secondary education sub-sector, and notwithstanding the increased enrollments
to be provided under the Seventh Education Project. This 4 percent annual
growth rate implies a decreasing share for education and training in the
Government's total recurrent expenditure if the growth of the latter matches
either the 6.0 to 5.6 percent rates foreseen for GDP and the services sector
respectively in the Fourth Plan (Annex 1, T-8).
III. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE AND LENDING STRATEGY IN THE SECTOR
Past Experience and Lessons Learned
3.01      The previous six Bank Group-assisted projects in education have
broadly supported the Government's changing sectoral objectives and have
reflected the Government's concern with manpower development. With the
Government's increased emphasis on rural development, the Bank Group has also
made a number of specific attempts at supporting the Government's training
efforts in the rural sector through both education and rural development
projects.
3.02      The First Education Project (Credit 45-TA) in 1963 provided US$4.6
million equivalent for the expansion of general secondary education and was
successfully completed in 1967. The Second (Credit 149-TA), begun in 1969
and completed in 1976 provided US$5.0 million equivalent for development of
general secondary schools, the expansion of primary teacher training, and the
Dar-es-Salaam Technical College. The completion and audit reports on the
Second Education Project revealed a number of lessons among the most important
of which were the need: (a) to expand access for women to the higher and more
specialized areas of education and training; (b) to assure adequate staff for
specialized subjects; and (c) to proceed cautiously with innovative practical
subjects. The Third Education Project (Credit 232-TA) begun in 1971 and completed
in 1977, provided US$3.3 million equivalent for agricultural training facilities
to train villagers, farmers, and agriculture extension personnel. The audit



- 14 -
report of the Third Education Project called attention to a number of signi-
ficant points, e.g.: (a) implementation takes a longer time in projects
involving more than one Ministry; (b) innovations should be avoided in
programs which are easily susceptible to rapid institutional change or
instability.
3.03      The Fourth Education Project (Credit 371-TA) begun in 1973, provided
US$10.3 million equivalent to assist Tanzania's education strategy for the
Second Development Plan by: (a) developing education and training facilities
for children and adults in villages; (b) expanding and improving preservice
and school-age in-service training of primary school teachers; (c) providing
additional facilities for training medical doctors; and (d) providing voca-
tional training centers. The project will be completed 18 months behind
schedule. An early review of the project institutions indicates that full
operation of the new teacher training college facilities is being hindered by
a shortage of qualified teaching staff. The Fifth Education Project (Credit
607-TA) begun in 1976 provided US$11.0 million to assist in the villagization
program, and ongoing transformation of the education system by providing for:
(a) the training and housing of 1,500 Village Management Technicians, (VMT),
(b) the practical subject workshops and science facilities for 15 secondary
schools; and (c) pre-investment studies and surveys of accountancy, primary
and secondary education. Extension to secondary schools is proceeding satis-
factorily but construction of the VMT houses in 1,500 scattered villages is
behind schedule due to the unreliability of anticipated community self-help
for this, and to the difficulties of implementing such a dispersed construction
program. A review of the project's secondary school component indicates that
whereas the new science facilities are being fully utilized, school personnel
are less certain about use of prctical subject facilities. Latest estimates,
however, indicate the project can be completed by the original June 30, 1982
Closing Date. The Sixth Education Project (Credit 861-TA) provides US$12.0
million equivalent to improve and increase outputs from specialized skill
training by (a) expanding two vocational training centers; (b) expanding and
improving accountancy training; (c) providing facilities for management
training of education sector personnel; (d) providing access for women to
technical colleges; (e) and financing pre-investment studies, project monitor-
ing and evaluation.  Project implementation began in June 1979 and is progress-
ing satisfactorily. A project implementation unit established under the
second education project in the MOE has been institutionalized and is success-
fully carrying ever-increasing responsibilities.
3.04       The proposed project would incorporate several of the main lessons
learned from past IDA lending to Tanzania's education sector: it would (a)
substantially increase female enrollment in higher secondary education (para.
4.10); (b) deliberately avoid further investments in major curriculum innova-
tions (such as secondary school practical subjects) before solid evidence
of their feasibility or early success is in hand; (c) be confined to familiar
types of institutions which are relatively invulnerable to rapid Government
policy shifts; (d) be confined to institutions which fall either ultimately or
directly under the responsibility of one Ministry (rather than several), the
Ministry of National Education in this case; l/ (e) make direct short-term
l/  ]:n primary education the Ministry shares its responsibility (policy-making
and teacher supply) with the regions and districts which are responsible
ifor day to day operation of the schools.



- 15 -
provision of the most critically needed types of teachers instead of only
calling on the Government to assure a supply of them; (f) not depend on the
availability of communal self-help for the implementation of any project
component; (g) allow a project implementation period of six years.
3.05      In addition to the experience accumulated over the previous six
education projects and an education component in the Kigoma Rural Development
Project (Credit 508-TA), the Bank Group has considerable knowledge of the
sector. In the late sixties the Bank supported a study of agriculture
education in collaboration with FAQ, and the first comprehensive inventory of
secondary school facilities in collaboration with Unesco. A sector study was
commissioned by the Bank Group in 1971 and in 1974 a sector survey was
carried out by Unesco staff. Through collaboration with the International
Institute for Educational Planning, the Bank Group in 1975 assisted Tanzania
in the development of education evaluation techniques. In 1976, Bank Group
staff were involved in a special study of the fiscal implications of UPE,
under the auspices of the Bank's Basic Economic Report. Finally, the Bank
Group financed education projects have included studies in order to address
areas where it was felt gaps exist and more work needs to be done. For
example, the Fourth Education Project financed a study of management training
and the Fifth Education Project has provided support for a study of accountancy
training, an updated survey of secondary school facilities and a baseline
sample survey of the content and efficiency of primary education. In 1977,
Bank Group staff carried out a sub-sector study to examine the training needs
required by the rural sector. In 1978, a Bank consultant was sent to lend
technical assistance in manpower planning in the MMD.
Lending Strategy
3.06      At Independence Tanzania inherited one of the smallest education
systems in anglophone Africa. Notwithstanding major advances since then,
especially in primary and adult education, the pace of growth in post-primary
education has become relatively conservative in recent years. Perhaps as a
consequence of this caution, there are increasing signs coming from all
sectors of development in Tanzania that the human resource factor is becoming
a constraint considerably more aggravating than in neighboring countries.
Thus it is likely that Tanzania's investment in the education and training
sector will be extensive for years to come. The Bank Group's involvement in
this investment, as the previous paragraphs have shown (paras. 3.01-3.04) is
equally extensive and is likely to remain so. In forming a strategy for
further lending in this sector, the key criteria for selecting project compo-
nents will be: the Government's articulation of its priorities for Bank Group
financing; the Bank's cumulative experience in the sector; a concern to avoid
undue burdens on the country's civil works capacity; a further concern to
limit recurrent costs, especially in the immediate years ahead; as well as
normal manpower justifications for the higher levels of education.
3.07      The Government's most immediate priority in the sector is to
consolidate the gains from the large scale expansion and innovation in
primary and secondary education, respectively, which have characterized the
last ten years (para. 2.04). This priority is to be expressed in a set of



- 16 -
relatecL investments to strengthen some weaker links in the sector, and to
build quality-support services with a view to improve the input/output
and cognitive-learning efficiency of schools. Some of the most glaring
of the weak points are: the danger of a few districts not maintaining pace
with UPE targets; (paras. 1.12-1.15), the impossibility of adequate learning
in barren primary classrooms (para. 2.08); the persistent lag in female
secondary school enrollment (para. 2.12); the unacceptably low levels of
performance in secondary school math and science courses, (para. 2.10) and
the related shortage of teachers (para. 2.11).  Some of the new quality-support
services which require immediate strengthening, especially to cope with the
massive UPE-generated expansion of schools, are: the delivery mechanism for
teaching materials including text and exercise books, the school examination
system which effectively shapes and energizes classroom behavior (para.
2.16), and MOE's capacity to absorb the findings of educational research and
evaluation in its policy-making and implementation (para. 2.04).
3.08      The Bank Group's cumulative project experience in the education
sector in Tanzania provides certain guideposts which serve to caution against
further investment in certain areas, or against certain assumptions on project
implementation which have proved to be false. Most Bank Group involvement in
the secondary subsector has supported curriculum innovation in the form of
practical subjects with new specialized facilities. Low utilization rates in
some of these facilities, plus the recent switch in teaching time allocation
toward the sciences indicate the need to avoid further investment in this
rather capital-intensive innovation until the results of a systematic evalua-
tion are reviewed carefully. Similarly, but in a very different area, the
poor implementation experience to date in VMT house construction relying on
community self-help (para. 3.03) would preclude repetition of such an assump-
tion.
3.09      Although attention is currently being given primarily to the re-
quirements of basic general education (primary and secondary) it is clear
that a complete strategy in this sector should not lose sight of specialized
technical education. In fact, the Sixth Education Project is devoted to
various types of special skill training sponsored by different Ministries
other than Education. It is prudent to allow time for that project to be
implemented and evaluated before following with a new investment in those
areas.
3.10      Over time the Government has come to see further uses and comparative
advantages to using Bank Group financing for expenditures other than just
school construction, which typified early projects.  In particular, it sees
advantages in multilateral rather than bilateral financing of sensitive,
software intensive items, such as capacity building in school examinations,
curriculum development or educational research and evaluation. Thus new
projecl:s are likely to include higher percentages of financing not only for
equipment expenditures, but also for various types of technical assistance
and initial operating costs to develop new sectoral management institutions.



- 17 -
3.11      From its involvement right across most manpower-consuming sectors
in Tanzania, the Bank Group is made especially aware of high-level manpower
bottlenecks hampering efficient project implementation. The two most recent
education projects (Credits 607-TA and 861-TA) focused on the training of
two specialized high-demand cadres for development administration, namely
village management technicians and accountants, respectively. Instead
of singling out another cadre at this time for special attention, most avail-
able signs point at the under-production of math and natural science students
from upper secondary schools as a source of many subsequent manpower bottle-
necks in different sectors. Previous Bank Group financed education projects
in Tanzania have not supported upper secondary schools.
3.12      The project which is proposed here would address the remaining
sectoral development needs of which Bank staff have become aware. Before
further needs can be identified, it will be necessary to update and replenish
the Bank staff's sectoral knowledge. The Government has indicated its interest
in undertaking a special study of key sectoral issues in FY81 and is inviting
assistance from both the IBRD/Unesco Cooperative Program and DANIDA in carry-
ing out this study. It is expected that such a study would draw on the
primary and secondary sub-sector surveys being financed under the fifth
education project (607-TA) as well as other recent research, including a
survey of the urban labor market and education funded by the Bank's own
research budget.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
4.01      The major overall objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to
improve the quality of primary education with more teaching materials and
trained teachers, and to provide poorer districts with greater access to
primary schooling; (b) to improve the quality and increase the enrollment and
output of upper secondary education, particularly in order to improve female
participation rates and alleviate critical manpower bottlenecks in science-
based fields; and (c) to enhance the capacity of key Governmental and para-
statal agencies to manage the sector. To accomplish these objectives the
project includes the following items:



- 18 -
Sub-Sector and                     Item and Type                       Principal Direct
Objective                       Of Assistance                         Beneficiaries
A.  Primary Education
Improved access               Construction, furnishing,               about 21,000 pupils
and efficiLency               equipping about 360 primary             per annum
classrooms, and related
facilities in four least
developed districts
Improved Instructional        Provision of teaching materials,        About 448,000 pupils
efficiency and greater        including textbooks to 16 rural         per annum
equity in school quality      districts
B. Secondary Education
Improve quality of            Construction, furnishing and            About 600 undergrad-
secondary teacher             equipping of a Demonstration            uate teacher-trainees,
training at the under-        School for University Depart-           and 500 secondary
graduate level                ment of Education                       school students per
annum
Expansion of upper            Construction, furnishing and            About 1,560 additional
secondary school              equipping facilities for about          upper secondary school
capacity in science           26 new Form V-VI science/math           students per annum,
and mathematics               streams in 10 existing and one          (of whom about 1,020
complete new secondary schools         will be girls) and
(Form I-VI)                            320 additional lower
secondary school
students per annum
(including 160 girls)
Improved science and          (a) Reequipping, refurnishing           (a) About 2,040 upper
math instruction in           and rehabilitating of teaching          secondary school
existing upper                facilities for 34 existing              students; (1b) about
secondary schools             science/math streams in nine            5,000 students per
existing secondary schools;            year for four years
(b) provision of 100 man-years
of graduate teachers of math-
ematics, physics and chemistry
Increase proportion           Construction, furnishing and           About 320 lower sec-
of day enrollment in          equipping of extensions to one          ondary school students
lower secondary schools       lower secondary day school              per annum, of whom
about half will be
girls



- 19 -
Sub-Sector and                      Item and Type                    Principal Direct
Objective                         of Assistance                     Baneficiaries
C. Teacher Training
Training primary             Provision of equipment for              About 1,745 primary
science teachers and         science laboratories in 4               teachers in training
secondary school lab-        teacher training colleges               and 35 laboratory
oratory technicians          and Dar-es-Salaam Technical             technicians per annum
College
Training primary             Construction, furnishing and            800 primary school
school teachers for          equipping of a new college              teachers in training
Zanzibar                     and renovating and refurnish-           per annum
ing an existing one
D.  Educational Quality Support Services
Improve and distri-          Provision of storage facilities,        About 3,900,000 rural
bution system for            vehicles and fellowships to             primary pupils; and
school teaching              Tanzania Elimu Supplies                 75,000 secondary
materials                                                            students
Modernize operations         Provision of buildings, equip-          About 500,000 Standard
and improve quality          ment, technical assistance and          7 pupils and 20,000
of school examina-           fellowships to National Exam-           secondary students,
tions                        inations Council                        per annum
Strengthen use of            Provision of fellowships, and           Policy-makers and
educational research         equipment for Coordinating              officials of Ministry
and evaluation in            Unit for Research and Eval-             of National Education
policy-making and            uation, MOE
execution
Pre-investment studies,      Provision of consultants
project monitoring           incremental operating costs
and evaluation               and vehicles for evaluating
ongoing and completed projects
and preparing future projects



- 20 -
Specific project items are as follows:
Primary Education (Sub-Sector A)
4.02      New Primary School Facilities in Four Least Developed Districts (A-1).
The project would provide support to Monduli and Kiteto Districts in Arusha
Region, and Kilwa and Lindi Rural Districts in Lindi Region to build new
classrooms and provide related facilities and equipment, including teacher
housing. As described in paras. 1.13 to 1.15, these four districts were
selected for this direct form of support in reaching their UPE targets due to
their exceptional social and physical constraints on full and effective
mobilization of community self-help, which normally is the major means of
primary school construction in the rest of the country.
4.03      To ensure the construction of permanent but lowcost buildings
the project will finance the full costs of buildings, and to ensure that
minimum conditions for learning exist in the classrooms once built, the
project will finance full initial stocks of furniture, textbooks and other
instructional equipment. To guarantee adequate and stable staffing of the new
classrooms, which will be built in very remote areas, housing will be provided
for the teachers who, because of the educational backwardness of these areas,
will normally have to be transferred from outside the area.
4.04      Approximately 360 new classrooms - with related office/storage,
sanitary facilities and housing - would be built by the project which could
accommodate about 21,000 new pupils. This is estimated to be about 40 percent
of all additional new permanent classroom accommodation required by 1985
to enroll the "steady state" UPE school population in these districts, taking
into account population growth. Given the low population density in the four
districts, the choice of village locations in which to put new buildings and
the appropriate size of schools will be guided by efficient school location
planning (SLP) criteria. The project will finance the services of an SLP
expert to aid the districts.  Where necessary, multigrade teaching and other
school management practices will be followed to ensure full utilization of
facilities. At negotiations the Government gave assurances that it would
provide the Association, by not later than June 30, 1981, with a satisfactory
list of village locations for the proposed new primary school facilities,
including proposed school sizes, for each of the four districts. These
locations and school sizes would be based upon SLP criteria of efficiency and
equity as agreed at negotiations.
4.05      Also included in the project will be provision for new furniture
and teaching materials to classrooms which have recently been built by other
means, but which lack the minimum required materials to conduct essential
teaching activities.
4.06      Materials for Existing Primary Classrooms in 16 Additional Districts.
In most districts, the individual villages are successfully building new
classrooms and teacher houses through their own community self-help efforts.
However, due to insufficient funds or lack of access to materials, in somes
cases the new buildings are without basic furniture and teaching materials.



- 21 -
As a result, the pupils must sit on the bare floor or piles of rock and try
to learn without the benefits of textbooks, paper or pencils. To reverse
these conditions which inhibit efficient learning, the project would provide
furniture and teaching materials to each of 16 districts at an average base
cost of US$250,000 (not including the four districts in the previous project
item). These inputs would be distributed among an average of 80 schools in
each district, or a total of 1,280 schools, or about 16 percent of Tanzania's
primary school population.
4.07      The furniture and classroom materials provided under the project
will go to 16 of the poorest districts in educational terms, to help them
raise the quality of their primary education. Because schools in urban
districts normally have easier access to supplies of school furniture and
materials, the 16 districts included in this project item will be rural.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to select tentatively the 16 rural
districts with the lowest enrollment rates, as the simplest and clearest
criterion of educational need. The 16 districts (with respective 1979 enroll-
ment rates) therefore would be: Urambo (60.8%), Igunga (68.5%), Hanang
(74.3%), Kahama (75.2%), Nzega (77%), Shinyanga Rural (85.2%), Maswa (85.8%),
Bariadi (86.2), Mtwara Rural (86.4%), Iramba (86.8%), Mbulu (88.2%), Singida
Rural (88.2%), Sengerema (88.9%), Tabora Rural (89.3%), Chunya (89.8%), and
Handeni (90%). The final list of 16 districts will be provided to the Asso-
ciation for its review by not later than December 31, 1980. Any deviations
from the tentative list would be explained by the criteria used to select
different districts.
Secondary Education. (Sub-Sector B)
4.08      University Demonstration Secondary School, Forms I-VI (B-1.1).
Candidates for undergraduate Education degrees and post-graduate diplomas in
Education from the University of Dar-es-Salaam have thus far been deprived of
easy access to a model of "laboratory" secondary school for observing demon-
stration classes conducted by experienced teachers as part of their training.
Therefore to increase opportunities for practical teaching experience in their
professional courses, the project would provide a new secondary school, with
mixed day and boarding, coeducational enrollment in two streams, Form I-IV,
and three streams, Form V-VI. The school will be located on the main University
campus in proximity to the Department of Education. Partial boarding would
permit a national cross-section in the student body, and a full array in Form
V-VI subjects will be offered to permit the full range of observation classes.
Special facilities would be provided to permit unobtrusive observation,
practice teaching and testing by teachers in training.
4.09      New Math/Science Streams in Upper Secondary Schools, Forms V-VI
(B-1.2, B-2, B-3). The project would support the construction, furnishing and
equipping of facilities (including staff housing) required to increase the
capacity of public upper secondary schools to teach math and sciences by
nearly 50 percent by adding 23 new Form V and VI streams to 10 existing
schools. In addition, one new coeducational secondary school is to be built,
furnished and equipped at Ngara with another three math/science streams in
Forms V-VI, and two agriculturally biased streams in Forms I-IV. Present
output capacity of public and private schools is insufficient to meet the



- 22 -
demand for math/science-qualified students emanating from various post-
secondary training programs as well as from direct employment (paras. 1.08--
1.11). To increase female participation from its present low-level of about
21 percent (para. 2.12), 63 percent of the additional new enrollment created
by the project will be used by girls. Fifty-nine percent of this is to be
added to schools operating exclusively for girls, the remainder to be in
coeducational schools. A combination of district by district quotas and
meritocratic entrance examinations ensure that both male and female student
beneficiaries will include a level of representation from poor rural families
which is unusually high especially for countries without universal secondary
education.
4.10      Existing Math/Science Streams, Forms V-VI B-4).  The project would
re-stock about 34 existing Form V-VI streams in about nine schools with
new sets of equipment and textbooks and rehabilitate or replace furnishings
as appropriate to help raise the quality of instruction and hence the produc-
tivity of existing schools in mathematics and natural sciences.
4.11      Dodoma Day School, Forms I-IV (B-5).  The population of the new
national capital is growing at a rate far in excess of the national average.
Both primary and (day) secondary school facilities are already inadequate to
maintain enrollment opportunities at the national average rate. Thus the
project would add two additional day streams to the single existing public
three-stream commerce-bias lower secondary day school (Form I-IV) in Dodoma.
4.12       Graduate Teachers of Mathematics and Science (B-6).  To help
maximize the return from this investment as well as to improve the ratio of
university graduate to non-graduate teachers of math and science (para. 2.11),
the project would also finance about 100 staff-years of expatriate volunteer-
type teachers of mathematics, physics and chemistry who are qualified as
university graduates. Teacher supply projections indicate a continuing
shortfaLl of graduate Tanzanian teachers during the project implementation
period. The public secondary schools must compete within a limited supply not
only wilth private secondary schools but also Colleges of National Education.
In addition, secondary school teachers, especially graduates, are very fre-
quently transferred either out of active teaching or even out of the education
sector altogether, as one of the consequences of a chronic shortage of high-
level manpower. The teachers recruited for the project need not necessarily
be confined to those schools which are included in the project for material
assistance, provided they teach the designated subjects in public schools. In
addiiton, these teachers could be posted to teach the same subjects in Colleges
of National Education since they draw from the same sources of teachers. To
minimize costs, the teachers would be recruited on volunteer-type terms, that
is from bilateral or multilateral sources which either absorb some of the
costs of recruitment and/or employment of teachers or are able to identify
well qualified teachers who are willing to work at salaries far below the
salary levels usually paid to technical assistance personnel. However, most
volunteer-type teachers involve some costs, even if limited, to the Government.
The project would allow the Government to pay volunteer teachers if necessary
on the Local salary scale, for graduate teachers as well as cover related



- 23 -
expenses and allowances for housing, local and international travel, insurance,
removal costs and a gratuity if these are necessary to attract qualified
teachers. On average, these costs are estimated to total to US$12,000 equi-
valent per teacher-year. At this rate, the Government would seek to increase
this figure by recruiting teachers from less costly sources. Besides, their
professional qualification and experience, the teachers would be fluent in
English. At negotiations the Borrower agreed (a) to establish by March 31,
1981, a plan of action satisfactory to the Association for the recruitment and
placement of expatriate volunteer teachers to be provided under the project,
and (b) to provide the Association by June 30, 1981, for its review and
comments, a ten-year plan of action to begin in 1982 for the training, posting
and retention of local science and math teachers, especially university
graduates.
4.13      To increase the effective output capacity of secondary schools, the
Government is considering increasing class group size. from 35 to 40 for Forms
I-IV and from 25 to 30 for Forms V-VI. The project would facilitate this
change by providing the extra dormitory accommodation required in the project
schools. The Government provided at negotiations an assurance that the
official class group sizes would be enlarged by these amounts by not later
than December 31, 1983.
Teacher Training (Sub-Sector C)
4.14      Primary Science Teachers and Secondary School Laboratory
Technicians (C-1). The relatively low level of performance in secondary
school mathematics and science has some of its origins in deficient teaching
in the primary schools. Recognizing this, the MOE is setting aside four
Colleges of National Education to specialize in training science teachers for
the upper primary grades. The project would provide these colleges with
the necessary extra laboratory equipment and textbooks to permit a greater
degree of specialization in their courses. In addition, the project would
replace worn-out and depleted equipment for physics, chemistry and biology
laboratories at Dar Technical College in order to improve the quality of
its annual course to train about 35 lab technicians to assist secondary
school science teachers. The project would also provide about seven staff-
years of fellowships to upgrade the calibre of existing college staff teaching
the course.
4.15       Expansion of Primary Teacher Training Capacity in Zanzibar (C-2).
Whereas the percentage of primary teachers on the mainland who are untrained
is negligible, in Zanzibar it is about 50 percent. To reduce that percentage
significantly as well as to supply the additional new teachers which Zanaibar
will require until the 1990's, the project would finance the construction
furnishing and equipping of a second teacher training college in Zanzibar,
including full boarding accommodation for students and staff housing. This
would double Zanzibar's annual output of trained teachers from 200 to 400 per
annum. The new college would enroll 400 lower secondary school leavers in a
two-year pre-service course. At the same time, the project would also finance
some refurnishing and structural repairs of the existing physical accommoda-
tion at Nkrumah Teacher Training College, the only teacher training college in
Zanzibar today. At present, Nkrumah College offers both pre-service and
in-service courses for primary teachers and a pre-service course for one class



- 24 -
of secondary teachers.  However, once the new pre-service college begins full
operation about 1986, Nkrumah College would provide only in-service training
for primary teachers and pre-service training for secondary teachers. Nkrumah
College has a full teaching staff and the output of Zanzibaris from either the
University of Dar-es-Salaam or overseas universities currently indicates that
an adequate supply of college tutors will become available by 1986 for the new
college. Whereas Nkrumah College is located on the edge of Zanzibar town, the
new college would be located in the heavily populated northern end of Zanzibar
island, at the town of Mkokotoni.  At present, some of the staff and student
diving, accommodation at Nkrumah College is used by persons who either work or
study in other institutions around Zanzibar town. However, the Government
has given an assurance that the accommodation would hence forth be reserved
for the exclusive use of staff and students of each college. During negotia-
tions these assurances were confirmed by the Government.
Educational Quality Support Services (Sub-Sector D)
4.16      Tanzania Elimu Supplies (TES) (D-1).  Responsibility for procuring and
distributing all school instructional material rests with TES as a para-
statal organization operating under advice from the MOE. However, other than
a modern warehouse facility in the port area of Dar-es-Salaam, TES has lacked
an infrastructure for delivering materials across Tanzania's broad expanse.
The result is that REO's, DEO's and even Headmasters, regularly have to go
themselves to Dar to buy items and hire their own transport for delivery
resulting in extra costs and a lower volume of deliveries. Therefore the
project would provide TES with needed capital to finance infrastructure in
the form of 15 upcountry warehouses scaled to the expected volume of traffic,
two vehicles per warehouse, and 10 staff-years of overseas fellowships for TES
staff to gain specialized training in procurement, stock control and transport
management.
4.17      National Examinations Council (NEC)(D-2).  Considering the increasing
importance of the NEC's role in shaping educational standards and maintaining
public credibility in meritocratic selection mechanism and given the rapid
increase in the volume of primary examinations activity in the coming five
years (para. 2.16), the project would help to build up the capacity of this
new, emergent institution by providing the second phase to its headquarters
building, and by providing a package of technical assistance, fellowships,
data processing equipment (with software), and incremental operating costs in
order to shift the examinations from an entirely manual to a partly elec-
tronically operated system. This would entail a period of intensive "research
and development" (R&D) activity from 1981 to 1984 so that the new system will
be in place to handle the 1984 Standard 7 bulge. About 12 staff-years of
technical assistance specialists in systems analysis, examination research
and item development, data processing, and computer programming and maintenance
will be provided along with about 32 man-years of local and overseas fellow-'
ships in these fields plus statistics. The major equipment to be procured
will be a mini-computer and peripheral devices (mark or document readers) for
data capture. The facility will be available to other users in the sector
outside peak load periods. During the R&D phase the project would support the
incremental costs in the form of paper and printing, travel, item writing
workshops, and training seminars.



- 25 -
4.18      Besides the average annual number of 500,000 Standard 7 exam candi-
dates, the NEC system will help process annually an average of 75,000 other
post-primary examination candidates of various kinds. The Government esti-
mates an annual financial saving of nearly TShs. 7.0 million (or over
US$850,000) from shifting to the new system. Additional unquantified
benefits would be derived from inducing better quality teaching by developing
better quality exam items which the new system will permit for the first
time, as well as from improving public credibility in a mechanism for legi-
timately and meritocratically selecting most of those who will reap the
career rewards of vigorous selection. To assure the recruitment of a highly
qualified technical assistance team, the project would support a brief
recruitment trip abroad for the NEC Director, facilitated by an advance
from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Finally, the project will also
support the incremental operating and technical assistance costs to computer-
izing the post Form IV and Form VI selection process.
4.19      Coordinating Unit for Research and Evaluation (CURE)(D-3).  In its
concerted effort both to consolidate the quality of learning in schools and
to promote the use of research and evaluation findings in educational policy-
making, the MOE is creating both a new Inspectorate (including staff seconded
to the 20 regions) and CURE, which will form part of the Central Inspectorate
and work under close supervision of the Commissioner of National Education.
To operate successfully, certain staff in various Ministry Departments and
other sector institutions will need upgrading in skills either to generate or
to use research results.  Thus, the project would provide about 36 staff-years
in local and overseas fellowships for sectoral personnel sponsored by CURE who
upon training completion will contribute from their respective positions to
either the generation or use of research, as coordinated by CURE. The project
would also provide calculating equipment to facilitate CUREs function.
4.20      Pre-investment Studies, Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  Con-
sistent with the increased emphasis put on educational evaluation of ongoing
innovations and programs, and in anticipation of continued capital investments
to both enlarge and improve Tanzania's educational sector at key points, the
project would provide support to the Government to carry out studies of a
pre-investment, project monitoring, or evaluative character. The project
would finance the equivalent of about six staff-years consultant services and
cover a portion of operating costs incurred in the execution of specifically
agreed studies, some of which could lead into future Bank Group-financed
projects. Several study topics will be reviewed with the Government during
negotiations. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that by not
later than March 31, 1981, it would provide the Association for its review and
comment a satisfactory description of the topics, terms of reference, time-
table and proposed staffing for the pre-investment and evaluation studies
included in the project.
4.21      The topics for consideration are:  (a) an evaluation of the imple-
mentation and effects of the proposed project's contributions to primary
education under varying conditions in 20 rural districts, especially the four



- 26 -
least developed districts (para. 4.02); (b) a study to determine the effects
of differential primary educational attainments on the efficiency or produc-
tivity of farm households; (c) an evaluation of the efficiency of the existing
post Form IV allocation system through a tracer study; (d) an identification
of those factors at secondary schools which determine the amount of additional
learning, with special reference to the sciences, mathematics and practical
subjects; (e) the preparation of a secondary school map to lead to the growth
of increasingly day-enrolled lower-cost, lower secondary schools; (f) a
study of the necessary conditions for providing secondary schools with incomes
from their own economic resources and activities, and their influences on
learning attainments of students; (g) study to determine the necessary teacher
and physical resource profiles and organization for small primary schools
adapted to low population density areas; and (h) a survey of manpower require-
ments to 1990 in a particular sector identified for priority development in
the Five-Year Plan. In addition, the project also provides funds for monitor-
ing and evaluation surveys of institutions financed in whole or part by
earlier IDA projects and where these earlier investments are in operation.
4.22       Summary of Technical Assistance.  About 112 man-years of expatriate
specialist services (including 100 man-years of volunteer-type teachers) and
84 man-years of local or overseas fellowships are included in the proposed
project. Specialists and fellowships would be selected in consultation with
the Association and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$55.5 million
equivalent including duties and taxes estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent.
The estimated costs and foreign exchange components are given in Annex 1,
T-9 and are summarized as follows:



- 27 -
Estimated Cost by Project Item
% of
TSh. (million)           US$ (million)        Base
Item                           Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture, Equipment,
Textbooks and Vehicles
a. Primary Education                       25.9    42.2    68.1   3.1        5.1      8.2    21
b. Secondary Education                     59.1    72.9   132.0   7.1         8.8    15.9    41
c. Teacher Training                        16.2    23.9    40.1   1.9        2.9      4.8    12
d. Supporting Services                     17.6    22.4    40.0   2.1        2.7      4.8    12
Sub-total (1 a-d)                      118.8   161.4   280.2  14.2    19.5    33.7    86
2. Technical Assistance                        2.4    21.4    23.8   0.3         2.6      2.9      7
3. R&D and Training                            1.9      2.8      4.7   0.2       0.4     0.6       1
4. Professional Services                       4.3      6.4    10.7   0.5       0.8       1.3     3
(Architectural/Engineering)
5. Pre-investment Studies,
Monoitoring and Evaluation                  0.8      1.3      2.1   0.1      0.1      0.2      1
6. Project Administration-/                    4.5      1.1      5.6   0.6      0.1      0.7      2
Total Baseline Costs (1-6)
(April 1980)                             132.7   194.4   327.1  15.9    23.5    39.4   100
7. Contingencies
a. Physical (8%)                           11.5    13.9    25.4   1.4         1.7     3.1
b. Price Increase (31%)                    48.4    59.7   108.1   5.9         7.1    13.0
Sub-total: (41%)                     59.9    73.6   133.5   7.3         8.8    16.1
Total Project Cost (1-7)            192.6   268.0   460.6  23.2    32.3    55.5
Of which taxes                         4.2     -        4.2   0.5        -       0.5
1/   Includes equipment and vehicles.



- 28 -
5.02      Cost Estimates.  Costs for civil works, furniture, equipment
and vehicles are based on, inter alia results of recent competitive bidding
and contract awards in the Fifth Education Project (Credit 607-TA).   Civil
works costs for new facilities for primary schools are based on a simplified
design benefitting from actual experience with an ongoing primary school
construction program. Average construction unit costs per square meter,
based upon exchange rates reflecting the scarcity of foreign exchange, are
US$55 for primary school buildings and US$225 for secondary. Unit cost for
academic/communal areas per student place for primary school is US$95 and
for a new secondary school is US$2,200.  These costs are reasonable in com-
parison with other African countries. About 35 percent of construction costs
of primary schools is for staff housing and about 23 percent for secondary
schools. Provision for staff housing is deemed essential to attract qualified
teachers to rural areas and is in accordance with Government policy. Schedules
of accommodation are functional and appropriate for educational objectives.
Technical assistance is estimated, on an average, at US$50,000 per man-year
for expatriates recruited abroad and about US$30,000 if locally recruited.
Volunteer-type teachers recruited from bilateral agencies are estimated to
cost US$12,000 per man-year.
5.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  The Tanzania Government grants customs
and tax exemption for items imported directly for educational purposes.
However, some of the materials to be used in the construction of the proposed
institutions could be acquired on the local market, and thus be subject to
customs duties and/or taxes estimated at US$0.5 million equivalent.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases, 10 percent has
been a,dded to the base cost of civil works and professional services, and
5 percent to all other components of the project. Price increases from
the base cost date (April 1980) have been applied in accordance with Annex
1, T-9 at the following rates:
1980    1981    1982    1983-85    1986
Foreign                    10.5%   9.0%    8.0%        7.0%     6.0%
Local                      15%    15%      13%        11%      10%
Estimated price increases are based upon an annual increase in international
prices following Bank Group Staff guidelines and local prices as obtained
from the PIU and Consultants' firms in Tanzania.
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component,
estimated at US$32.3 million equivalent or 59 percent of the total project
cost net of taxes has been calculated as follows: (a) civil works and
furnituire, 45 percent; (b) equipment, textbooks and vehicles and technical
assistance, 90 percent; (c) R&D, training, studies, and professional services,
60 percent; and (d) project administration, 20 percent. The foreign exchange
component is reasonable, taking into account that most equipment and a high
percentage of building materials will be imported,and taking into considera-
tion the recent increases in cost of fuel, inter alia.



- 29 -
Financial Plan
5.06      The project is to be jointly financed between DANIDA and IDA, and
administered by the Bank Group. Finalization of the co-financing arrangement
between the Government, DANIDA, and IDA would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed project. The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$55.5 million equivalent,of which DANIDA is to provide US$20.0 million
equivalent and IDA US$25.0 million, or about 82 percent of the total project
costs net of taxes as follows:
US$ million
External
Govern-    1         2    Financing
Category                    ment    DANIDA    IDA    1 + 2          Total
1. Civil Works                          2.88      8.00   10.00      18.00      20.88
2. Furniture, Equipment,
Textbooks and Vehicles               2.94      4.50    5.50      10.00      12.94
3. Technical Assistance                 0.27      1.20    1.40       2.60       2.87
4. R&D, Training and Studies            0.12      0.31    0.39       0.70       0.82
5. Professional Services (A/E)          0.39      0.40    0.50       0.90       1.29
6. Project Administration               0.51      0.05    0.06       0.11       0.62
7. Unallocated                          3.39      5.54    7.15      12.69      16.08
Total                       10.50    20.00   25.00        45.00     55.50
of which taxes:               0.50                                   0.50
5.07      Recurrent Expenditures.  In any year during project implementation,
the maximum Government capital contribution to the project, inclusive of
taxes is not expected to exceed US$1.5 million equivalent.  This figure is
0.2  percent of the 1978/79 development budget of Tanzania or about 2.7
percent of the educational capital budget. Recurrent costs generated by the
project are estimated at about US$1.36 million p.a. When the project is
fully operative, this would be equivalent to about 0.5 percent of the Govern-
ment's projected recurrent budget for education by 1985/86 and 22 percent of
the net increase in the budget from 1978/79 to 1985/86 (Annex 1, T-8).
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Implementation
6.01      The project would be implemented in about six years after Credit
effectiveness, including six months for completion of payments and withdrawals



- 30 -
(Annex 1, T-10). The project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986
with a proposed Closing Date of September 30, 1986.
6.02      Administration.  The proposed project would be administered by the
PIU under the MOE and by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the Prime
Ministier's Office (PMO), in Dar-es-Salaam.
6.03      The PIU, would be responsible for implementation of all project
components except those for the primary school program, which would be adminis-
tered by the PCU. The PIU is an administrative and architectural unit estab-
lished for the implementation of five previous education projects assisted by
the Bank Group, as well as other investment programs, from different donors,
such as: the African Development Bank; DANIDA; Germany (FRD); Netherlands;
NORAD; Russia; SIDA; and UNDP. The PIU has been institutionalized and is
performing well and is presently staffed with about 45 professionals and
adequate supporting staff.  The Unit is receiving major technical assistance,
from DANIDA, in particular. The Government has recently concluded an agreement
whereby the ongoing DANIDA technical assistance program, including the contri-
bution of local staff training, and the establishment of maintenance units
will be extended with the support of about 55 man-years of assistance, which
cost is not part of the Project. DANIDA's extended technical assistance
programn will cover the implementation period of the proposed Project. The
Governrment has given assurances to DANIDA that the local counterpart staff
assigned to the PIU will be maintained throughout the project implementation
period.
6.04      The PCU (previously called Executive Unit) established for implement-
ing the VMT program in the Fifth Education Project (Credit 607-TA), would be
responsible for implementing the primary school component (about 20 percent of
total project cost). The PCU in association with regional and district
administrations would carry out all aspects of implementation of this compo-
nent. Furniture and equipment lists prepared by the PIU would be used for
procurement by the PCU in the primary school component.
6.05      Reporting and Project Completineport.  Semi-annual reports on.
implementation progress would be submitted by the PIU and PCU to the Associa-
tion for review within one month after the periods ending on March 31 and
September 30. No later than six months after the Credit Closing Date, the PIU
with PCU's assistance would provide the Association with a report evaluating
the execution, initial operations, costs and benefits of the proposed project,
performance of the Government and the Bank and lessons learned during project
implementation.
6.06      Design and Construction.  The primary school facilities, implemented
by the PCU, would be based on existing standardized designs developed under
ongoing primary school construction programs. The construction of the facil-
ities would be under the direction of the District Development Director (DDD)
for each of the four selected districts who would award contracts for the



- 31 -
construction either to: (a) small rural contractors; or (b) local Fundis 1/
located in the village; or (c) District Rural Construction Units (RCU); or (d)
Ministry of Works district division's work force; or (e) a combination thereof.
The DDD would submit detailed building costs (labor, materials, transportation
and overhead) through the PCU to an appointed quantity surveyor, whose evalua-
tion will be the basis for award of contract. The DDD offices would arrange
for the purchases of all building materials, and ensure timely delivery of
materials to building sites. The DDDs will sign the contracts and arraage for
all necessary payments. Actual contract expenditures are to be documented
through the use of local purchase orders, requisition notes and vouchers. The
supervision of construction of the primary school programs will be the respon-
sibility of the DDD's office. In order to have this work carried out effi-
ciently, a building supervisor team would be organized in each of the four
selected districts. Each team will be headed by two volunteer building
technicians each having local counterparts. The teams will also help the
local "entrepreneurs" on building sites, which includes, inter alia, opera-
tional and management assistance, and when required, construction equipment.
During negotiations the Government gave an assurance that qualified
building supervision technicians will be assigned to appropriate DDD's offices
in the four districts in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 1,
Table 10).
6.07      Other facilities, implemented by the PIU, consisting of the secondary
schools would be based on standardized designs developed under the Fourth
and Fifth Education Projects (Credits 371-TA and 607-TA). Facilities for
the teacher training colleges (TTC), the TES apd NEC would be designed and
supervised by the PIU.
6.08      Professional Services (AlE).  The architectural, engineering,
procurement and building supervision services provided by the PIU would not
be included in the project costs. However, in anticipation of an increased
workload of PIU because of new obligations to other investment programs, it
is expected that it may be necessary to call upon locally established consul-
tants for architectural and engineering servicss to assist in preparing tender
documents on selected components. Approximately US$1.3 million equivalent is
provided in the project costs for such services. These consultants would be
selected and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
Group and would be under the technical direction of the PIU.
6.09      Site Selection.  Location of primary schools would be based upon
agreed criteria (para. 4.04). Sites already selected for the two new secondary
schools and for the TTC, the TES and the NES are satisfactory.Land would be
provided free of cost to the project.
6.10      Building Industry.  The construction industry in Tanzania consist of
small or medium-sized family firms which operate at low levels of capacity.
There is only one public company in operation, however, the Ministry of Works
1/ "Fundi" (singular) is the Swahili term for local skilled craftsmen or
artisans.



- 32 -
is in the process of establishing a number of Regional Building Construction
Units (presently the units are working in Dar-es-Salaam, Arusha and Dodoma
Regions only). Self-help  construction is normally used in all rural dis-
tricts, however, this approach has not been successful in some of the districts
in the Arusha and Lindi Regions. The self-help construct_or is in msost cases
carried out by villagers with support from Fundis. Self-help construction
experience from Community Education Centers in the Fourth Education Project
(Credit 371-TA) and housing scheme for the VMT program in ,he Fifth Education
Project (Credit 607-TA), indicate that heavy reliance on self-help method of
construction exclusively could create significant delays in implementation; as
a result, inter alia, the primary schools included in the project are to be
constructed by means other than self-help (para. 6.06).  The major constraints
in the building industry in Tanzania are: (a) contractors' difficulties in
obtaining local bank credit; (b) long delays in receivnmg pa-ments for work
done; (c) shortage of skilled manpower and qualified site f7-)remni and engi-
neers; (d) lack of available building materials, transportatin facilities and
spare parts for machinery.  The PIU has been successful f  re 'ir  tie delays
in payments due, but other problems still persist. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that contractors would be permitted to
directly import essential building materials, equipment and spare parts
necessary to carry out work included in the proposed project.
Procurement
6.11      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, textbooks and
vehicles totalling about US$26.0 million equivalent including contingencies,
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank Group's gu#elines for procurement, except as follows:
(a) construction of primary schools and civil works contracts estimated to
cost less than US$300,000 equivalent each (estimated at US$2.5 million); (b)
furniture, equipment, textbooks and vehicles contracts each costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent (estimated at US$2.1 million); and (c) local transpor-
tation services for furniture and equipment (estimated at US$1.3 million).
The primary schools would be constructed by various methods as described :Ln
para.6.06 which due to their small size and remote rural location are unlikely
to interest any construction firms. Based on past experience, these methods
proposed are deemed the most economic and efficient in carrying out the work.
Exceptions to ICB would be tendered by competitive bidding and advertised
locally in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank Group.
6.12      Qualified domestic building contractors will be allowed a preferen-
tial margin of 7.5 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors,
and domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment will be allowed a
preference of 15 percent of the existing rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
6.13      Sketch design, draft tender documents and master lists of furniture2
equipment and textbooks, including proposed grouping, will be reviewed by the
Bank G-roup. Items will be grouped to the extent practicable to encourage
competitive bidding and to enable bulk procurement.  Review of tender evalua-
tion documents by the Bank Group prior to award will be required only for
contracts above US$300,000 equivalent each for civil works and US$100,000
equivaLent each for construction materials, furniture, equipment and vehicles.



- 33 -
Disbursements
6.14      Disbursements (Annex 1, T-ll) would be on the basis of:  (a) 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 75 percent of local expenditures for civil
works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85 percent of local expendi-
tures for equipment, furniture, vehicles and textbooks; (c) 100 percent of
foreign and 85 percent of local expenditures for technical assistance, profes-
sional services, research and development, training and studies; and (d) 20
percent of local expenditures for project administration.  Disbursements from
the IDA Credit and DANIDA grant would be made pro rata in 5:4 ratio of finan-
cing.
6.15      Disbursements would be fully documented except for local expenditures
for: (a) civil works by force account; (b) operational costs; and (c) project
administration. Disbursements for these components would be made against
statements of expenditure prepared by the PIU and PCU, the documentation for
which is not submitted to the Association but retained by the Borrower for
review during project supervision. Based upon experience in previous education
projects, the PIU and PCU have satisfactory institutional capacities to use
the statement of expenditure procedure.
6.16      Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures
financed under this project, with particular emphasis on work carried out by
department forces (force account), operational expenses for project adminis-
tration and local transportation expenses of construction materials, furniture
and equipment to school sites. Auditing would be performed by auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group applying satisfactory auditing procedure. Audit
reports should be submitted to the Association within twelve months following
the end of the Borrower's fiscal year.
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      At both primary and secondary levels the project would increase
access to education for children from remote and educationally underprivileged
areas, and would improve the quality, efficiency and cost-effectiveness of
the school system. According to recent studies in neighboring countries,
investments in primary and secondary education typically bring high social
rates of return. Studies of social selection in education in neighboring
countries also reveal a remarkably high representation of low income groups
in schools, even without the deliberate geographical quota allocations which
Tanzania uses. At the primary level the project would supply 21,000 new
places and improve about another 448,000 places. At the secondary level the
project would provide about 2,760 new secondary schools places (upper and
lower), make improvements to another 1,860, and provide teachers for about
5,000 students per annum. The project target population in primary education
would be those who would otherwise be most likely to remain at the margins of



- 34 -
the national education system. The additional science and mathematics gra-
duates from Form VI who would be made possible by the project would be most
likely to fill vacancies either in specialized training or further education
or in direct employment.
7.02      The projects' assistance to institution building and educational
quality services such as CURE, NEC and TES will indirectly raise the standards
of learning for virtually all students in the education system below univer-
sity level. Finally, the provision of new, and the improvement of existing
teacher training facilities in Zanzibar would represent the first Bank Group
assistance to that part of Tanzania.
Risks
7.03      Most of the project components carry minimum risks since the agencies
responsible for project implementation possess the requisite capability, and
since major risks have been avoided in the project design. The construction
of new primary school buildings will deliberately avoid the unreliability of
community self-help. The main uncertainty for construction by small private
contractors derives from seasonal disruptions to transportation, but this
can be reduced by advance planning and supervision of delivery of building
materials to sites by the PIU and PCU which will be facilitated by the tech-
nical assistance provided to the four concerned Districts. The chief risk
applying to the secondary school components lies in the uncertain supply
of mathematics and science teachers. The project will minimize this problem
by temporarily providing teachers, but steps need to be taken to reduce
erosion from the existing teaching stock resulting from large-scale transfer-
ring out to active teaching.  The Government is to provide the Association
with a plan to remedy teacher shortages in the subjects mentioned (para.
4.13).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
on the following points:
(a) the selection of village locations for new primary
school facilities in four districts (para. 4.04)
and the selection of an additional 16 districts
to receive primary school equipment and furniture
(para. 4.07);
(b) the recruitment of volunteer expatriate teachers
and training of local teachers of secondary
school science and mathematics (para. 4.12),
official secondary schools class sizes (para. 4.13),
and on the use of living accommodation in teacher
training colleges in Zanzibar (para. 4.15);



- 35 -
(c)  pre-investment and evaluation studies (paras. 4.20 and
4.21), local and expatriate staff for the PIU (para. 6.03),
the employment of building supervisors in the four districts
(para. 6.06), the importation of building materials and spare
parts (para. 6.10) and submission of semi-annual progress
reports (para. 6.05).
8.02      Finalization of the cofinancing arrangements between the Govern-
ment, DANIDA and the Association, would be a condition of effectiveness (para.
5.06).
8.03      Subject to the provisions in para. 8.01 above, the project is
suitable as a basis for a Credit of US$25 million equivalent to the United
Republic of Tanzania on standard IDA terms. Funds allocated for technical
assistance, if not utilized for the purpose intended, would be subject to
cancellation.



REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Total Manpower Requirement by Skill Cate&ory
1975-1990
1975-1980                               1981-1985                                1986-1990
A            B             C            A              B            C            AC
1.  Agriculture                    240          160         1,420          140            90           820          200           130         1,190
2.  Mining                                       20            80            8            30          170             8            30           170
3.  Manufacture                    250          500         7,600          220           800         6,570          370           750        11,280
3.  MnUtltres                       20          110         2,720           40           230         3,850           70           400         6,600
5.  Construction                    80          220         1,790          200           520        4,300           170         1,090         9,110
6.  Commerce                        90          500         4,900            50-         270         4,010          100           510         7,730
7,  Transport & Comm.              130          920         6,560          170           910         6,480          300         1,590        11,30a,
8.  Finance                        180          330           680            40          250           820            80          440         1,437
9.  Public Administration        2,970       29,980        19,970        2,480        15,020        25,100        3,150        19,080        31,870
10.  Total Requirement Due        3,960        32,730       45,720         3,348       18,120        51,950         4,148       24,020        80,680
11.  Existing Stock               7,806       23,994        93,365       17,234        62,850       153,224        20,582       80,970       205,174
12.  Current Vacancies            3,550         5,281       10,806
13.  Non-citizens                 1,198           845        3,3 2
14.       TOTAL                  17,234        62,850      153A224        20,582 2514___
3FYP Manpower Plan
15.  Total including existing
stock                   16,086        52,574      152,255
-of which -
16.  Existing stock               7,806        23,994       93,365                                                                               'A
17.  Difference 14-16             1,148       10276            969
Source: Bank Group staff, and Third Five-Year Manpower Plan.



- 37 -
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA                            Table 2
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Meeting Manpower Needs for the Modern Sector
1975-1990
1975-19Rn             1981-1985               1986-1990
Projected Manpower Requirements                             SKILL A
7.1 a) Due to Growth                    3,960                  3,348                   4,148
b) Vacancies                        3,550                  3,643                   2,916
Replacement of Expatriates          1,918                                            - a/
Attrition 1/                          310                    690                     820
TOTAL                            9,738                  7,681                   7,884
Output of Universities              4,212 2/               4,620 2/                5,544 3
Deficit/Surplus                     5,526                - 3,061                 - 2,340
SKILL B
Projected Manpower Requirements
7.2  Duie to Growth                     32,730                 18,120                  24,020
Current Vacancies                   5,281                  3,704                  3,622
Noncitizens                                                      !                   - a/
Attrition                             960                  2,520                   3,240
TOTAL                          32,971                  24,344                 30,882
Available Supply                          4/
from  Training List       ~       1972--20,322                                  24,295
Deficit/Surplus                   _19,243                _ 4,022                - 6,587
SKILL C
Projected Manpower Requirements
7.3  Due to Growth                      45,724                 51,950                 80,680
Current Vacancies                  10,806                  3,067                   3,675
Noncitizens                                                  - a/
Attrition                           3,730                  8,210                 11,430
TOTAL                           63i5R9                63,227                  95,785
Available Supply                   23,5005/               25 8505/                51 7005/
-40,G89              - 37,377                - 44,085
Deficit/Surplus 
1/  Estimate of number retiring, dying or resigning.  The assumed rate is 4% of existing
stock at the beginning of each period.
2/  Calculated from Manpower Report to President 1976, 1977 and full-time undergraduate
Tanzanian students enrolled 1970/71-1978/79. Planning Unit, University of Dar es
Salaam, April 1979.
3/ Based on 20% growth of enrollment for 1984 due to increased output from Form VI.
4/ 1975-77 figures were actuals. 1978-80 calculated from opportunities available to Form VI
school leavers.
5/  Calculated from output of In-service training Institutes for C Category plus number of
secondary school leavers seeking direct employment.
a/ Vacancies include expatriates.
,Source: Bank Group staff, Tanzania Ministry of Manpower Development and
University of Dar-es-Salaam Planning Unit.



REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Projected Opportunities for Form VI School Leavers
1978      1979       1980       1981       1982       1983      1984       1985        1986
University, Direct Entry                       194        194       204        232        237        237        237        536       536
Teacher Training                              400        400        400        400        400       400        400        400        400
Inservice Training                             487       487        487        487        487        487       487        487        487
Public Sector Vacancies                      1,986     1986            1,986      1,986      1,986      1,986           1,986      1,986
(including National Service)
Demand                                       3,067     3,067      3,077      3,105      3,110      3,110     3,110      3,409      3,409 X
Form VI enrollment given                    2,222      2,247      2,233      2,247     2,303      2,302      2,303      2,303      2,828
current class size 1
Deficit/Surplus (-1+)                        -845       -820       -824      -858       -807       -807       -807    -1,106        -581
Form VI if class size                                                                                                    -686       -161
increased to 30 by 1985
N.B.  -Existing vacancies in 1978/79 for employment and in-service training would remain
constant. First year intake into College of National Education would be at 1978/79
level.
-Direct entry into university will rise from current 97% of total Form V output to
11% by 1981/82 to 20% by 1985/86 as a result of increase in number of qualified
science students due to Seventh Education Project.
1/ These figures do not discount for the numbers of students who fail to qualify finally in critically
short subjects.
Source:  IBRD World Bank staff estimates
WI-



COMPARATIVE EDIUCATION INDICATORS                                      Tabla 4
Page 1 of 2
DECEMBER 18, 19791
IMP/ :   G. NP   :% TOTAL.%  OF PUBLIC                       ::           PRI. :AV.PRI.   1             1        1001
:CAPITA: OEVOTED:PUBLIC :EDUCATION    :LITER- :PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. (STIO- (HIGHER:
AT  I TO EDU4.  EXP.    RECURRENT    A4Y            :ENROLLITION        :DENTS:SALART  IN:108 RATP  :ENROLL(00ENT9:FN0L73.
'MARKET: (PU8LIC:DIEVOTEOj:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RAJ1O  :RATE PORI.PER   :RELATION  tFROM PRI,:RATIO (PER   :R9ri0
POP. :PRICES: EXP.           TO    1      TOt       HZ% OP   I NET   PRI.SCH. :TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.   INET   :TEACH- OROSS:
YR:MILLS,: (US$): ONLY)   1EDOU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (X)  :CYCLEI'/.:ER                   1 CAP'ITA      I (X     1 %)    :ER    1(X)I
A0L1IAS)        74   7.5G 5,620G         5.39    S,5EY  24T  519   159    99          98       930       260-      2.00,      9911      71D     19)'    16,85Y
CANADA           77  27.8  7.135         7.3    16.7      30    37   26      98       99       97        19        2.0        99        90       IS     16,100
GERMANY F.REP.75   61,8  6,670           5.0    10.2      31EY 644* 26EY  99          90       99        23E9      ...        999       84Y    2"C    70,76T
JAPAN           75 111.6  4,4050        4.30   20.7E    4009 37U9  1109  99          990       99C       25        2.0E8      99C      9597    20C    74.69?9
NETHERLANDS    75~~~ 13.7  0,425    9.4    22.41,   21   39   21         99      95        95        29       2,0        97        80       20     12,5
NEW ZEALAND    73   3,10 4,2000          11.2   ..        39   24   29       99       99       99        26        ..         99E       6?      19      24.)
N04            76 40903                72     1,         4    24    15     99       99        94        6         .         990       62,      11     11.10
'IWOOFO         76   8.7  8150          6.6    14.0       23   29    12      99       99       99        16        ,.,        909       851"    13     30 .00)l
3.6.       ~~~~~75  56:0  3,780     7,1    13.9      26   41*  18        99      99        ..        24        2,0        .,       69       (7     21,000
(.7,4,  76 214,6   7,950     5,~~~~~~~~             ~~4 15,8 .      72*  28  99P  99 9         2        ,.99                 93      1 I    714.00
GREECt           26   9~.1  2,590        2,6    10.4      37Y  26Y  21Y   836         99       820,      31       2.0         700       80x    22       15,
IRELAND         74   3.576200           t5.1      1290    439    1    149    98     10899      99A       35       .          95A       659      19     17,41Y
7061))4      7     9.    1,5         36     7.4       41    21    15      708      8        60*       19      20          7*        3         7        0
k[039014         /5  21 .2   1,'240      4.0     6.4      36    19   13      98       101       ..        1                   98        49      27'     I  0.00l
.,P0I0     24  ~~~~35'.8  2,901)   2.4    10.20    499   22    150    944       16         .        35                   .. ,.    7897      S     1 H69
A41 1.1  15     7)  17.3/   II1(;H       24     14:3FY  341  76r  21r   .3 7          86       45        38        40.0        5        31      22X.0
00010       "~~~~          ~~4   3 "  80  . N360     47   730   SOD    110       443       708       539     25.08        438        19     3       074Y
00100960N       ,08      9      40      6.0     770  52    23    14          35      800       70        31        5.0        48       34       22,     2. 00
0)IJ"L 1I[If    78   4.1       110      7.    72.14    469,  331,  79        25       730      47        32        9.         22         3      17        1.
1:89) OGON               ~~~~~~ ~~~~~4 3.2 79.   33    43   20        -       60       47        52       40          20         90     24       0.9019
l2.A.v.     ~~~ ~~74    1 OF 00     3, 110  12.01    s)19               .          9XYY   25         699                  is . 1     809   '2709    0. ,
<890                        0      3,1)    10.04.(~ O    78   521               29689    30         6089    100          Ft        2989   30       0,0189
<ONE,11111)   ~~~1."     51OP      6.0    (93       40    32    21     5' 1330            63        63       60         4         33      22       3.48
LOYOP)                i8       03        5.98      .      30    32    25     44       76        80       31I       . ..       79        45      211      12.0 0
TI7H)P1A            01                  2.4C  1'2.5    i44   31"  14C    10O         26        ..       50,       ...        63         9       30      ..
A' I)N         24   0 7   .400         5.00   20.6)    25       0 10        ... 10             0        460        ,0       190       319       11     029
E1091)A                          0 ,  7  3.     1.5       4     25     6     1        27        90       32        .          92        93XY
'N60          F47'9            0               I  9.71    439 72     07   .  6y039            678      319      ,           14))      3500    16C9    1.099
01,10)9    76   ~~~~~4. 2  HO      4.9F.            3  31    30         ...     309       64        45      1.0           86       130              400
II1 1000 7)1411  I 2'   7.01    6810o    6.0     3.       33    46    13      99      50       816       43        7.0        47        1763    '0.'     I.6~49
"I955           76   3 01   1'4)        '9    76.         6/   23    0       40       809      60'       34        4.0       3I0         6      27       1.0
I ~  I0)1 H     '    ".    060         220     730       49    t8   20      40       85       1         52         .08       8                          10
I1410b - 6f1)           .        01      2.4    13.7      27    07    20      7 3     58        ..       35        2.0        ...       12.258IAY
MADAGASCAR                       0       4 ? 0  24.0I    531   20    09      50       90X       33       44        6.         38        14X     Pi       1.70
99,901             0      7.2      0.3    ~~~ ~~~ ~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~40    1 72 5 56 2  61       50          9        59      2       0.47
04                             9SF     4.20   33. OF   42)   3 /F  090    10         20.F                9       9.SF        00)-       69    .1.
H8110)99010                  CF-L1.3   4.1      2009       .     .       104       709       ..      72         .          .          0      4    
HA11 RIII 0J    75   0  ~ 1.   655       4.7    72.1    -50~   26      6     BOC1    94         99       24        4.          90       45       "         5
9001(                           'S       ..)57           239R  48R   13028H           650       33       40        ,.         33        179     2?       4,00
0)61019     7~~~~4 7OF0   34S~F      9.109D 2~4.20 2 39   169  429    .. .    4999       ...         349 CY               ..        lox 109 0   C0y   0,489
08090 PII.1,2.03                                                                      l 7                                                                 ,3:
10(71 NCII                        I o    5.0    230       42130              1        372        .       49       10.0        202 1,7
1098L)4                  0      5.0    12.0       69    31   '1      654"2399           00       27012.0              26 3O430.10
SWO/ILA        7    I          I      6. 1)    22      3      3      3     6,       90       4          2        40          4        30      70        2.0
19478808  79  07.1  "30       6,69~~~~~~~~~~ 15,8    43    19    17  660,    96834X.                                                 2U       03
09E5AL5 Nr1~ O                 205       5.5    765       377                                   40       58        6.0F       02                44       2.0
10311                           207. 33                   37    47                               1       4         6.         31        04      7)1       .0
9I0     0 AL"                    5      6.0     2.0      69   3120                   860X      44        42        70        41        13        7        .0
93804A          77   IJ.       44'0      6.0    17.96   548   2'                      076        80      49         3,37                96       2       35
9998450).D      76    7.2   1,620        9.     121       43    31     10    99       06 9X     49       51        3.0S       99        949     20)7
r70118 010',    I7 2.7         611       .,)    727       57)   75)    29    898    1999        678      298       2.0        58       450      258     1715
2387i25955                               .     11.      .........           90,L    99        9         2240 1    2.         98        65      1       15.00
'OIN1006FF]?   4.6     790        .0     3.       42    24    2       5)      80         i.      54        6.0         3        7       24       700
00)81            2     ,1       05)      19     160       5      3     14    4         4        2        37        3.0        69         8      72       4,9
1811  2Y71TA          4.7      ILI 20   3.      0,7      Al   I1   II29              20        1          6         .         7         4       .          .
1)0000699  71,   2.90    4007  4.25   19.99    79155   (911   53  20  30    35        3.0        68        11       12      4.00~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   41  X  IO
AIRE12          76 ".    10769 116.2(                    37    33    22     86       9         42        39       4.          4        6         5      75
900170  75  50.9   1.050  3.000  (2,001)  SlY   269   129    76  1209     3)        46        3.0        63       3590    739      9,9709~16  3  I .5
'9190410        746    .,      002      2; 14     .2     6)    IT     13     573     6         so2       37        2.0        93       122i70
101909   I  . 2        I.   1,20145      4,5   -14.1:~    49   312   20      97       996X      991      30I       3.         49        62x     24      I~
C0UBA1           76   9, 3)5             5,     I/SF                         96.. 3   128       291'     24        2.P        98 .       4       181'     .0
810M8711        /5F ~   11001  ,,300     5.0     ' 12.    474   700    3    64        860       . .,7    27              54,            760     254      6.008
L01             /5, 1AD1.    .3 I05  4053  9    '769   2)9   109   57    6 ,         B199      .         359                 41      , 49    , .2  16,57
1:0, 19810  24  "4.30    6500  3,30~~~~~~~~9 1620    4409 270   19 3        409      -6        339      4.0        690       39       14      6,7
60190           75MA.33    /000           ./     //         .... 6                    00                  8                      I      380      14L       (9
000008      24   SOP    'II)',L. 90 1.1                2    3     14     93        2        139      33        6,0        13        62      74       100
P409579   24   2.1    6700         1.0    110       72    1     22     01       92       26        35 0      31.        658       1       12       500
F11             75N16,5A1 I1400          4.2G'  21.20    40    229 5159       /      1909       3        30        30         70        409      219   14,1
TRIN7111     T  73   12.30   .740        4.6    19.        0    280351    77          9)        9,       33        3,4        49,       63      24.      2,..



- 40-
COMPARATIVE E2uCNTTOW &NDICATORS   (CONTID)                                MOlE!X 1
Table 4
Pasge 2 f,.
DECEMBER 18, 1979
GNP/   % GNFE  :% TOTALV.:  OF PUBLIC 1                                FRI,  :AV,PRI.  .S IEC
ICAPITA: DEVOTEDIPUBLIC :EDUCATION   :LITER- IFRI. ICML- :STU)- :C,ECIRSCSISC   S'-IIK
I   AT  I TO EDUJ.I  EXP,   RECURRENT    lACY            IENROLLITION       IDENTSISALARY INIION RATE :ENROLL:IENTSIENRO[ L
:MARKET. (F'UBL.IC:DEVOTED:EXF ALLOCATEI')   RATE :RATIO I.RATE FORIPER  :RELATION :PROM PRI. IRATIO IPER   :RATIO 
POPr.  FPR T.C E S ) PXP.   TO   I      TO:       12% OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH. :TEACHI TO GNP/ 'ITO SEC.     NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YRN:MILL_S.I  2US$): ONLY)      EDU). IP'RI, SEC. HI,:ADULTS)I  (%)  :CYCLE(%)I.ER          CAPITA  ::5             3    ER       ()
(1) II  (2) I(3)    I(4)  I              5           6     : (7)  1(8)    1  9)I(1)                (11)     1(12)  1.(13) 1(14)
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFOHANISTAN   77M 14.3        1800     1.8   11,6    47   19   10    12           29X      69        37       3.00        62       ex    2.7       1.00
BANGLADESH      73  80.4G    900       1.*2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   23D         56X       ...      48D      .,.,.       ...     23X1'   20       ..
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  16,30 1,0500         3.2   14,0    28   41   22    82           98C      94        40      14.0        84       61C     26    20.OOC
INDIA           75 620,40   1400       2,6VY  ...      ...... 298                 65XY     ...       43A      ...        ..,      299?   20AY   2.34EY
INDONESIA      76 130.90   2800    3.0   11.0    26   32   15    60B    79EX               43E      30E      2,0        52E      19FX   14E       2,00       
IRAN            73  33.60 2,0600       3.3    12.6    5OB  lAB  12B   s0          77       74A       32       5.08       BOA      24      32      4,32CY
IRAP           75  11,50 1,3908        6.7C  16.3DR....... 26C                    93XY     ...       22       ...        ...      35X?   26C    8,47Y
JORDAN          77   2.3    997        4.5K   7.1K    25R  SOR   3R   70          97X      81        32       2.0        91       68      22     10.60
KOREA           78  37.0  1,242        2.8   17.5    35   29   36    93          102X      94        49       2.9        91       60      45     18.00
L.EBANON        72  3.20  1,0700       3.5   18.0    39   40   10    68           86       65        19       2.0        63       26')    25    23,00
MALAYSIA        76  12.6    860        6,7   26.0    42   34   10    60C          90       93        32       3,7        78       48      28      3.00
NEPAL           76  12,6F   IIOP       1.1   10,0    29   20   41    19           59        28       31       2.3        64       14      24      0.8
OMAN            72   O.8F 2,300F    l,7N   3.8    96    -   -             20      249      99        27F      7.0        ...      0.49     9       ..
PAKISTAN        75  71.30    1808      1.6   16.2    40   20   18    21           479      50        39       2.0        . ..     17X    18       6.00
P'AFOA N.G.    75   2.80   4500        5,6   16.1    38   16   24    32           57?       73P      31      11.0        90       12X?   24        0.90?
F'HILIPPINES   74  43.20   4200        2.0   14,9      73   15   12    87        1049       .. .     34      15.0        ...      46X    ...   21.00
SINGAPORE       74   2.30 2,5808       2.7Y   9.2Y   39Y  39?  17Y   75A   1099?           72A       31Y       ,4.       99A      449?    24      7.68Y
SYRIIA          70   7.60   8300       3.6     6.9    39   20   26    03          89        70       35       2.0        92       45      21     12.00
THAILAND,       77  44.1     410       4.0'V  20.0    05   30   11    84P         83       30        35       5,OU       70       28      25      3.00
TURKEY          73  40,90 1,0100    5,6CY 20.6CY   .....   .,.. ,..               85Y       . ..     34Y       .:.       ...      24?     27DY9  5.83Y
YEMEN           73   5,40   3000       0.5    4.0    4SF  21F' 23P   10           159       18       36       5,0        70        29    19       0.05BY
YEMEN P.D.R.  76   1,7    280          6,6     . ..    07   28    8    20         899       48       30       0.0        94       219     24       0,10
SUMMARY P0K DEVELOPING COUINTRIES:
NUMBER OP COUNTRIES?                   95     92      88   87   86    89         96       76        97         71       79       95      93       86
RANGE'                              (0.5-  (3.8-  (21- (8-  (2-   (0-          (13-     (13-      (16-      (1.5-    (8-       (.4-    (9-      (.01-
12.0 2 36.0)   96 ) 72)  50)   99)          1339)   99)    69)    20.0 )   99)              95  2  45)   30.1)
OUARTILES:UPPER 15,9   21.2    49   35   22    83                               98       86        42         6       91        48      25     11.0
MEDIAN:                  4.2   16.0    42   26   18    03           82        63       34          4       68       24      22       3.4
LOWER 1                  3.0   12.4    33   21   13    23           56        32       29          2       41        11      18      1.0
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE               AM1970 OR BEFORE            M=CURRENT P'RICES                        SOURCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1971                           N=GDP----
Q UESTIONABLE                     C=1972                      P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNS1l AND, 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUJDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                          Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                        OR IBRD MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH PRIMARY           E=1974                      R=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                  3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
**UNDER REVIEW                     F=1975                      S=MOE AND, STATE GOVT. ONLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
0=1976                      T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                   STATISTICAL
H=1977                      U=PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
K=1978                      V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXP'ENDIlTURE
X=INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO SOUJRCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DiATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDIUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMP'ARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED, IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED, LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE 'BEEN MADE TO STANDiARDIZE DtEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING GUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND'.
)1)'ED')CATION' AS DEFINEDt IN THE TABLE INCLUDiES ALL EDUCATION ANDI TRAINING, FORMAL ANDt HON-FORMAL;
(2(1PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECGNDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL),
(3>VLITERACY RATES(~COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUJNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT AN? UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 0) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
P'UBLIC AND, QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(0)'ENROLLMENT RATIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDIREN ENROLLED FULL-TINE
IN THE AFPROPRIATE SCHOOL, P'UBLIC ANt' PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUINTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL, OVERAGED STUDiENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED, B?
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,
*ET=125S3,0 PT=1,l 10=8.5
BYE
#END SESSION 5390 ET=15119.0 PT=1.7 10=10.4
*USER = BCCEZX CHARGE = B30499CCEZ 11141124 12/19/79



I          -                                                                                                        4      
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA - MAINLAND
SEVENTH EPitNTION PROJECT
Priary School Enrollmnt Public and Priyte: 1970-79 Actuals, 1980-1991 Proiected
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    "977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Standard 1    172576  190091  208331  226071  231250  473067  506497  540497  906404  555550  581407  576523  583206  588377  598399  619412  658529  689515  722147  750916  774624  798803
Standard 2    152234  166590  182858  199119  221350  232395  427717  477614  566079  876763  548404  566178  561893  568179  573243  582910  603160  640903  671256  703025  731137  754345
Standard 3    141734  149305  161265  174328  204164  212416  240289  405833  499071  545809  840395  536730  546847  543019  548875  553790  563034  582373  618466  647943  678613  705854
Standard 4    138458  138246  144139  153169  186289  187258  202798  228240  411111  482626  528635  808853  527424  530541  526985  532454  537240  546113  564650  599292  628034  657770
Standard 5     88634  102608  116661  133300  169124  165253  179520  193590  236031  397450  469657  515413  783135  522125  518658  515166  520274  524962  533527  551387  584814  613050
Standard 6     68624   85367  101886  116593  154826  152426  161586  173904  198218  225281  377730  448369  492626  745305  504554  496635  493214  497962  502455  510591  527535  559279
Standard 7     65624   70302   88656  103807  152686  137965  155950  171785  181674  191125  217226  362158  431658  474840  715366  490983  479653  476214  480662  485001  492796  509009
Total         827924  902609 1003796 1106387 1320145 1572849 1874357 2194213 3000879 3274604 3563454 3814224 3926789 3972986 3986080 3791350 3855104 3958042 4093163 4248155 4417553 4598110
Note:   Enrollment figures through 1979 were pusvided by the Ministry of National Education.  Projected
enrollments beyond 1979 were calculated as follows:
1. Standard 1 intake is set at 98.2X of the seven year old population projected forward
from the 1978 census results as follows.-
Seven Yeat Old Pop.    Standard 1              Seven Year Old Pop.    Standard 1
1980        570,000             559,740         1986        646,000             634,372
1981        564,000             553,848         1987        676,000             663,832
1982        571,000             560,722        1988         708,000             695,256
1983        576,000             565,632        1989         736,000             722 752
1984        586,000             575,452        1990         759,000             745,338
1985        607,000             596,074        1991         783,000             768,906
2. Then enrollment figurea for Standards 1-7 were calculated using the following pupil flow
rates derived from a comparison of 1978 and 1979 enrollment figures (Table 16):
Promotion        Repetition         Net Drop-
Rate              Rate            out Rate          SuD
Standard 1            .954              .039              .007            1.0
Standard 2            .945              .021              .034            1.0
Standard 3            .948              .022              .030            1.0
Standard 4            .951              .023              .026            1.0
Standard 6            .941              .017              .0324           1.0
Standar,d 5           .941              .027              .032            1.0
Standard 7            .950              .017              .033            1.0
Source: World Bank staff and Ministry of National Education.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Projection of Public and Private Secondary School Enrollments 1977-1990
(a) Public Secondary Schools
19771/  1978       19792/  1980       1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990
Form I       9,242    8,797    8,855    8,995    9,240    9,240    9,660    9,660    9,660    9,977    9,977    9,977    9,977    9,977
Form II      9,548    9,790    8,925    8,855    8,995    9,240    9,240    9,660    9,660    9,660    9,977    9,977-   9,977    9,977
Form III     9,755    9,703    9,790    8,925    8,855    8,995    9,240    9,240    9,660    9,660    9,660    9,977    9,977    9,977
Form IV      9.338    9.852    9.703    9.790    8.925    8.855    8.995    9.240    9.240    9.660    9.660    9.660    9.977    9.977
tSub Ital       37,883   37,872   37,273   36,565   36,015   36,330   37,135   37,800   38,220   38,957   39,274   39,591   39,908   39,908
Form V       2,125    2,167    2,050    2,050    2,050    2,100    2,100    2,100    2,625    3,150    3,150    3,150    3,150    3,150
Form VI      1.962    2.018    2.050    2.050    2.050    2,100    2.100    2.100    2.100    2,625    3.150    3,150    3,150    3.150
Sub Total        4,087    4,185    4,100    4,100    4,100    4,200    4,200    4,200    4,725    5,775    6,300    6,300    6,300    6,300
I - IV      41,970   42,057   41,373   40,665   40,115   40,530   41,335   42,000   42,945   44,732   45,574   45,891   46,208   46,208
(b) Private Secondary Schools
19771/  1978       1979     1980      1981     1982      1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990
Form I       6,590    6,839    7,454    8,125    8,856    9,653   10,522   11,469   12,501   13,627   14,853   16,190    7,647    19,235
Form IT      5,084    5,564    6,839    7,230    7,881    8,590    9,363   10,206   11,125   12,126   13,218   14,407   15,704    17,118
;                 Form III      3,829    4,783    5,564    6,839    7,230    7,881    8,590    9,363   10,206   11,125   12,126   13,218   14,407    15,704
Form IV      3,316    4.003 _ 7,783    5,564    6,839    7,230    7,881    8,590    9,363   10,206    1,125   12,126   13,218    14,407
-Sub Total       18,819   21,189   24,640   22,194   30,806   33,354   36,355   39,628   43,195   47,084   51,322   55,941   60,976    66,464
Form V         154       154      154       154      154       154       154      154       154      154       154      154       154       154
Form VI        106       106      106       106      106       106       106      106       106      106       106      106       106       106
$Vb Total           260      260       260      260       260      260       260      260       260      260       260      260       260       260
1I - VI      19,079   21,449   24,900   22,454   31,066   33,614   36,615   39,888   43,455   47,324   51,582   56,201   61,236    66,724
Total
1/
2/ Data for 1979 and projections for 1980 onwards assume 35 pupils per stream
and automatic promotion from one class to another for Form I-IV; Forms V and VI
assume 25 pupils per stream. The number of streams is derived from Governsent
Develop_t Plans.
wDt.:
DurinS 1973-76, privat, schools grt. at the rate of 10.97,. Forms I-IV grew at
11.25h and Forms V-VI at 6h per annum.  The growth trends of Form I intake were
at an average annual rate of 9.5% during 1973-74 and 12.6% over 1975-76.  During
that period there was considerable transfer at Forms II-IV from private to
Government schools. The new Government education policy stopping transfer from
private schools into Government schools now means that private schools would
have to retain most of their initial intake. Taking this into consideration,
the following assumptions were made:
- a 9X per annum growth rate in private Form I intake
- a 3h attrition rate from Form I to Form II and 0h for
Form II to III and III to IV
- Forms V and VI were assumed to remain at 1977 level
Source: Manpower Report to the President, 1977, Ministry of National Education
Sectoral Planning Department, and World Bank staff projections.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EXPENDITURES ONl EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN RELATION TO TOTAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES
(millions of shillings)
Actual.  Actual    Actual    Actual    Actual    pproved   Estimates
1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   stimates   1978/79
1972/73   1973/74    1974/75   ________  _________   12 77/78  _ _____
1. Recurrent Ex2enditure on Education          432.7     548.6       63. 2    831. 7    2n        ,329.59   IL516 -7
Ministry of Education                    179.2     235.6    -349.1      357.3     386.o      441.7      532.4
Regions                                  158.8     210.8      301.4     323.5     395.3      670.7      715.9
Other Ministries                          94.7     102.2      112.7     150.9     160.8      217.1      268.4
2. Total Government Recurrent Expenditure   2,226.2   2,785.0   3,961.1   3,883.9   5,022.0   5,734.6   6,967.1
1 as % of 2                              19.4      19.7      19.3       21.4      18.8       23.2       21.8
3. Capital Expenditure on Education             2L. 2     80.8                201. 3    225.72
Ministry of Education                     34.7      26.1       32.2      92.6     146.0      220.8      197.8
Regions                                   12.       20.5      43.5       54,8      42.8       60.7       89.8
Other Ministries                          45.2      34.2       59.7      53.9      36.9      111.4      170. ?/
4. Total Government Capital Expenditure        956.0   1,642.2   2,224.6   2,083.4   2,971.0   4,522.5    5,548.6
3 as % of 4                               9.6       4.9       6.1        9.7       7.6        8.7        8.3
5. Total Expenditure on Education (1+3)        24.9                   8     1,0330          .8   1,72.45
6. Total Government Expenditure (2+4)        3,182.2   4,427.2   6,185.7   5,967.3   7,993r0  10,257.1   12,515.7
5 as % of 6                              16.5      14.2      14.5       17.3      14.6       16.8       15.8
7. GDP (Factor Cost, Current Prices)        10,032.0  11,490.0  14,010.0  16,988.0  20,606.0  26,140.0   29,074.0
5 as % of 7                               5.2       5.5       6.4        6.1       5.7        6.6        6.8
Source:  Annual budget estimates, and Ministries of Finance and National Education.
/  Approved estimates
/  Annual Plan 1978/79.
_ I



- 44 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 8
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Seventh Education Project
Projected Government Recurrent Expenditures
on Education and Training 1978/79-1985/86
(millions of shillings at 1978/79 prices)
Budget                       2 growth -
Estimates    Projected    rate 1978/79-
Level and Type of Education           1978/79      1985/86          1985-86
1.  Ministry of Education and             1,248.3      1,690.7            4.4
Regions' Expenditures
Administration and General               54.7         74.1            4.4
Primary education                       649.7        914.6            5.0
- Ministry                              (20.5)       (29.2)
- Regions                              (629.2)      (885.4)
Secondary education                     154.6        164.1            0.9
Teacher education                       139.0        186.4            4.3
Higher education                        158.7        222.6            5.0
Adult education                          81.3        114.4            5.O
Folk Development Colleges                10.3         14.5            5.0
2.  Other Ministries                        268.4        302.6            1.7
3.  Recurrent Expenditures                1,516.7      1,993.3            4.0
on Education (1+2)
4.  Total Government Recurrent
E,-,enditure
(a) at 4.5% p.a. grow-th rate                      9,481.2
(b) at 5.6%         i t   i           6,967.1    10,202.3
(c) at 6.0%  "      "     "                      10,475.9
3 as % of 4(a)                                        21.0
3 "       4(b)                           21.8         19.5
3 "  " "  4(c)                                        19.0
Source: Budget Estimates 1978/79, and appraisal mission calculations.



8.  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.slI                                                                                                                                                        ,1-                                                                  1.II-.                                           R 
. ........   Ill                     IR               21,           1H..I               40188                           15I 1,1-48                                                                                         H01-1881-.,l-80H81                                                                               1.
8118dl01        08-1                18~~~1-1.           010188 11.  AHIA                                ,, I            H1. I            1181I  *I8I Ill                                    A40H81              A   11524 8-                                  H88
14481111      1.14            11181            088811    41I81                                      _   H    1141_-8                            18_1. 181i AHIHHH8                                        141            H81AIIH8 I             8llhH                     8518               18              1H                 I-1
A-I.  HIH,'8  818H8111 ,A10,I,881118                                           1       .      0       ll...~~~~~1.71                            7               1,-118              l 1911I. ,                -1.1  8 1111-8                         H1-    1       .-         84 H7~1                -1-2.              1i,I41.                    -                            8 .           1        1         1.
181- 11811A-1   111.8811111                             18.A                                         -~~~~~~-  41          -                1IIH    I,-   I, I -                           .11.              .57I1              -1  8            ,l        A       .H-4               .401               1-                                            181                             41.81,-
8-A.1  LIIA1HIs8A   0811111.1811             lIHIll                        A.IAA              -~~~~~~DiI     -                 -l               I0               .11          1-11             -1      I         11.1'   I      117-                -    ,1                           181.           "I0.-0           ,     H     H-HH1-                                                                 1 1.            1-1 .1.
418188111                          I.AH                  -        -       -          1            1                     191118A1721                       -l  I       4841-  .l45...                        1411              -      H      A .-                                   ......1-l                -                          1      .     -4.                               H.
11-1811                                                                                                      14                11           1 11 A 1- A                                     1-                  0<5-4804                                             .82211.  I              141.                   -                    .8                              -71IA A    1   100.
1-A.1  81 11  .811111A811811-11111                                                                                                                                                                -                                -         1.41000>0                          A8~~71  1~  11.100.l iH.O2.o            41I1,4.2-41                                                                                           4
-   __                                                   -     l,I8.  _.I I  i-                                                                                                                                l _- 4
TH     101            lA                I                l                   .0          '.101               0.          l1         .ll-.1.                  10. I               1               -.1                -.11            1.111.1                    -                       --                             2-111            14.IA.
17.~                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -                -        472.                 1 1
1-0   -.41.4   48 4.H   .11      '..0               1             L.25.7         1 1  4   1    0 1  0  1 1           IA     . 4 4 1 1  0 .         4 0  1 . 0           4    .       I O  II  A          1041              III   A I  A                -                       -                 -     1  9  4  1 . 4        1 1 5 1.
1 1 .l   l8.8 4 8 1 8 1 A 1 8 1 8 1.1 1 1 1 1 8 8 1 8 1l   441   III             IT                1     1     1     1     1     0     1          1   8  0   0  1   1  1  .    1  1  . I I   T  I I  I I . l           1 0 0.1          A 88.A           1 1 1 0            8  8 .  I I A  .l   A  1  8                -                          8   .   1    1    8     41_ 41.8484
1 8 1 8 8 . 0 . 8 1 4 . 1 , A 1 1 l 8 l 8 o l   1 8   - I I   811   4 . 1   4 1 1 0   1 , 1 1   1 1 1 1   1 1 1 1 0   1 . 8 - 0 . 1 4 . 1 7 8 1      I A A .   1 1 1   .  1   1  1  1   1  0  .   I  A   O  .  l            1 1 1 0 . 1               -                       -                 -         1 , 1 1 1 . 1        1 8 1.41_1
1-1.1  811188884111I1111818o81810..8. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~I 111L2 11
0-4.8  0T811818118    .111881411                             91          III              -               004                -                  -              141.1                              - 0 4 1 4                       III                              111.0              8148             1.1141                    -                       -                  -11004.04                      1040.1 41
8-1.0  .84  440111  19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~88~~~~~~~~~~~084888. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~                   ~                   ~                   ~                  ~~                                    ~~~7                                                         -            '..                  .
811.1 ~    ~       ~      ~        -     -i 88811108011. 80121                                                   1               -               1LI-91.                                                                                            1_11                  1.I                                1.               9.                   119--                                                                  9      .                1.
-4.8   8 8 4 1 1 8 1 4 8 1 1 8 1  .4 8 1 1 1 8 8 8 8 4   II         1  8             -               H14                .                                  1 1 1             -     -      I     '     l      l                1 1                 -    1     1     0    1     ,     1                1 1 . 1                -                       -                -             801.74 1-1 .1j
9-4.0   0l800811118.1.148    1810198811   84   1.0          -               141                -                  -             014              -                               4414                    1                              I'              II.              10041                     -                         -    -    1    1    1    1    1    1     1    ''~~~~~~~~~~IL-li !LLI 2  Lj Lo  L~ 1-
181-  l81~~~~~  8-4  188  1.41   -                                                   .414441                                                     .    1     1     1    4                -         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 .  z m           10L-,                                                           .         28-0 88`-0
0-1 1188141184 9884111188  8 08884881188 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ 1 






4b -
994444            9r    1444         --              -- e --to         _      _                 A     1         __   _  _        4    4    9    9    I _  49       141          1     _ _      9 9        1      9      9     2       94            1 9 9-
A-l49   144194  89           919'49'4c           44441   14Sen  4,49 9194  4l4i  i -49itt
1 -99 9  49494444               9449419d c 44994buldzU,314   9419999 9r 9n 9t                                              9   39 0    0   D/   '                  9 S    5  S  5  S                      9 5  5 5 ; ; S      f
9941499444144494,994499                                                                                                       1  s4                       4          4             9      A      I     -(     4     44    4 
b93949~~~                                                                                                                 4     4           9            9     9           4 vi   olslcDiLia{lyp;o                                 /    
9-9919494.44                                   4441                                                                                  4    4    44it9i4  9qPnn   9d 9erak                              9 V. V9                               
A-<     84449494444 oL 44.434d 44414443991944     oli 9V                                                                                                I      <           X      X            X      X  
8-    D' rit4   e 9494994   t %9 d iR9 tbo
b-l ~        ~         4499.494499494 9e                                                                                  9 4         1    4          9    9          9     9                9    9    4     49al  9en
9 - 9,944 9uvc  of  9sc                                                                                                                                       , - 24L 4no  9n 9It   4priso  D    0    D                             4 o4                                           
b        439994 -                                                                                                 4    9 f         4      1     9    9     9    9     2             9 I    X4        
<- -94~4  f2F        4o99994                34er9494444 n                                                               V    I     V               I    x      X     >                  X      x      X  
A-2~ ~ ~        ~ ~~4~9499999  444449na                                                                                       944999if eo9   9   9sSu  9cn rv 4ccl                             4 n          3) U/   S     -     
9-J       . b  444                                                                                                                                     9, -9 X4ve            4 9 4 4ie  4n   .4 -x ha4dis4                            9.uX   9,
i14.9.44   494 4l 44                                                                                                                         4    4          4         1         41   .4 3x 4m                  2 X           9   
2 -4444   94>   944                                                                                                   99 9911              94d >q4   4n    V9 V4 V44 V4 r9 l4 X4    99 X9Y                             y      X
4-1  499494    a 19  -99434  44c                                                                                       IA444  IA19I l.l44                      r      A     A     A4A           A     TA     T     r
C-l      444944494944    b449444443444,4144344                                                                                 4 9 9 - 4 4 4 to                             9    4    49hG    9rl
14-  994994444                                                                                                                         99, 4ie    4n           -''-. 9              4     9          4ulizo   ess*w       st                     
1444.449444941944 112                                                                                                                            4     4                   9         1
b994 C 4 411     4z 4999J        'I '44Y                                                                                                              X  4444h                                            L 
4-444491444 r9m   449944494444,3499;99449444l4 *49                                                                                                                                          l 
44444r4                                                                                                   4    4rnr   9e_s  9[inn    9eJxs  -   S      4    4                  9      -                  9       9
9(-144 _                                                                                                                               9]r  94              4        4      4           -     44                   4. sie                  4-   Dghtdns   cig   e   nd
9444.4  '4494999 4bfl                                                                               4U                                           S 0    0          9      4 3          4     9       9     4      4      4 b9   
bl-  994444 .   Lj494444T4I 4.4'X4999h9r4fl1X44944L
r' 1_     94441444949   --99494944444- 4e 9c 9S                                                                                        444ca           4    .4          Y      vX                         Y 
9944444 4rvao                                                                                                                       1   4    4ncs  .r4(q'. Lo  4m 4_                    4    uf
4 -449449491444                                                                                                  944994                     4 99ts   cinvckLd>X   uavll             4    S   ' 4
b- 9-449  444]  44444  444444'1X                                                                                                                                                  L
94444144   3444444444-9-  4444 449-4414144                                                             9     9      9    4         Y         9      X    X     4             9      91 
4-44 _       44 42(osrl                                                                                               r                         4     4    4 I  1              4r                          9     1
4-444D9144[444                                                                                                           9      448nna  L< 4                           4    4    9    9    99i .uc
3 -,4444   994444                                                                                                    44n 4f    444e  94t  144 4nr           44d   49L   99e r  94      49   44    94 (I          44    94 *9495 S
b-994-44 _                                                                                                              4 9 9 4:< 4-4 1X                                 :     s                   \       X  
494-A 4449499943                                                                                                                 1    1           4          1     11                               9q  1    9 V   r9:Xa    
b - 944449  449444444                                                                                                       9    9 
_-444441434                                                                                                                           4     1           4           9    1           9           9         1s   "9l P01A A A A A A A A A                                    
b4 -  9449444u  999944  949194
_-434   _4944444  _9_49444144_4__44499
144944-84144414494ndo  eiisg  uLdns   ndshaet ra   esd
4X94919   9444444   99499141944
F - 99914949199cos
94449  9144  4494ica 41411-  e  spcil



I



-47                                      ANNEX 1
Table 11
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Accumulated             Undisbursed
O,uar /er-       Disbursements             Disbursements                Balance
1       (FY81)             -_-_45.0
2  (FY81)                                                 -                      45.0
3  (FY81)                      0.4                       0.4                     44.6
4  (FY82)                      0.8                       1.2                     43.8
5  (FY82)                      1.6                       2.8                     42.2
6  (FY82)                      2.4                       5.2                     39.8
7  (FY82)                      3.3                       8.5                     36.5
8  (FY83)                      3.8                      12.3                     32.7
9  (FY83)                      4.4                      16.7                     28.3
10  (FY83)                      4.8                      21.5                     23.5
11  (FY83)                      4.8                      26.3                     18.7
12  (FY84)                      4.2                      30.5                     14.5
13  (FY84)                      3.5                      34.0                     11.0
14  (FY84)                      3.0                      37.0                      8.0
15  (FY84)                      2.0                      39.0                      6.0
16  (FY85)                      1.5                      40.5                      4.5
17  (FY85)                      1.2                      41.7                      3.3
18  (FY85)                      1.0                      /2.7                      2.3
19  (FY85)                      0.8                      43.5                      1.5
20  (FY86)                      0.5                      44.0                      1.0
21  (FY86)                      0.4                      44.4                      0.6
22  (FY86)                      0.3                      44.7                      0.3
(FY86)                      0.3                     45.0                       -
24  (FY87)                        -                         -
I/ From date of effectiveness.
Source: Bank staff estimates.



UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 197B
AGRICULTURE                            AGRICULTURE
TRAINING INSTITUTE                     TRAINING INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
POST PR IPAARy                                riictCo-e           TWO YEARS           Dlplom  Cur.
TECHNICAL SECTIONS                                                FIELD EXPERIENCE
.. .. ... ... . .... ...... . . . . i; .. ...... , V~~~OCATIONAL INSTHUCTOR
TECHNICAL                   u       ~~~~~~TRAINING CENTER
VOCATIONAL TRAINING                                                          ~~~~~~~~SECONDARY SCHDOLS                   TECHNICAL COLLEGE                        TECHNICAL COLLEGE
VOCATIONALVTRAINING                                                                                               T             *-  E                                       IN USTRIAL
TECHNICAL EDUCATIONVOAINLTANN CETR                                                                                                                       rtfchout-             7YE S           Dlom    ure
_ 1      3                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EX E81ENCE
F un 11 I CooP-ralo                                                   1
_ _ _ _ _ _- --- ---                  .  _........... .._. _.____. _. .....................  .TieWi!'                 -- -- - --   - -- --.-- -- - -- -J- ...............................----------                             .............. .........   - -- -- -- -- -- ------------------------
PRIMARY~~~~~~ SECONDARY                                                                                                        UNIVERSITY-
GENERAL EDUCATION                                                                                                                         NF
ARTS, SCIENCE, SOCIAL SCIENCES.             iMEDICAL
MEDICINE, AGRICULTURE, ETC.             INTERNSHIP)
..... .     ......-  .. - --  -.-----.I------.......-----------............-    ..............  ..  ............. ...... ..  .... ..... .......... ............ ... .. .. .. ....  ....... ...... ...... ........... .............. ... .. ......... ........... ............ ........................  - --
MANAGEMENT AND                                                                                                                                TECHNICIANS        FESSIONALS                          PROFESSIONALS                                                                   CC
ACCOUNTANCY TRAINING
.......... ...._..  ._..........  .......... ..........  ..........  .........     ......... ....  ..... ..........  .........., .........   ..,.......  ..........  ..........  .  -------  ----------  ----------  ----------   ----------  ----------  ----------  ---------
TECHNICIANS.
NURSES, AND                                                               ASSISTANT
RURAL MEDICAL AIDES                            MEDICAL ASSISTANTS                                                        MEDICALOFFICERS
HEALTH EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                              5 YEARS EXPERIENCE
NURSES GRADE A
.. ...----.--.-.......  ...--.- --.-.   .   --.   .-- -   .. ................   ..   _..   ..   .,,,....... ... ..........................  -- - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - --   - -  - - -  - - - - - -  - - ............................. __._....... ...... ......   -- - - - - -- - - - -  -- -- -
TEACHER TRAINING                                                                                   PRIMARY TEACHERS                               PRIMARY TEACHERS               LOWER SECONDARY
Grsd. C                                       Grsd.A                       T   CHERS
Thro` gh upgr-dine                      Th-l,ugh Upg-rding
P.LE. - Primary Leaving E-raination
eNF4 - National School Certificate
NF6  -- Nationul Higher School CeriticateW
World B.ok-701 2151
'The Government announmed in 1974 that Form 6 outputs would not obtain direct entrY into
Universiy, but would enter omploYment fle an unspecified petiod before being considered for
undergraduate studies
Source  World Benk Group Stall
July 1978
P   9~~~~~~~~~~~~



TANZANIA EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
COMPARATIVE DATA
FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
1961, 1971 & 1976
KEY TO FIGURES                                                                                                                             KEY TO FIGURES
1976    1971    1961                                                                                                                      1961    1971    1976
UNIVERSITY
1"Year                             814     624       70                                                                                                                         6    75        80
SECONDARY                        1,591    1,240    251                                                                                                                         25     19E      255
FORMS 6                                                                                                                                                                        2       9       5
1,582    1,354    211                                                                                                                        25     254    301
6,360    5,274   1,121                                                                                                                      482   1,770   2,346
__                                                    ._ ___                                  ..                               __                  _ _._______
6,614    5,375   1,540                                              [                                                                       548   1,947   2,857
2                       6,748   5,426   2,514                                                .                                                                      1 019   2,197   2,673
5,743   5,554   2,967                                               .                                                                      1,229   2,016   2,877                                  .
PRIMARY                                                                                                                    56.77.
STDS  V                                                                                 _ _____
I                                                                                 ........
_  IV                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~        ~~~117,118,f.'',829  65,152  30.239  55,80$       85,680
-  -I            .    *  ...........,...I.:..*,.                                                                                         .::.::....::.,:.**.,*-                 -             --    -- - -  _ _-
1ll                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~137,130 ,6     6       6,5                 34,787 1 59,6e            103.159
236,305          Y:'7277481,34   679073'
280      252     224       196      168      140      112       84       56       28        0       28       56       84       112      140      168      196       224      252
BOYS                                 ENROLLMENT NUMBERS IN THOUSANDS                                     GIRLS
"11 8
SECTORAL PLANNING UNIT                                                                                                                                                                                                               >
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                 WodB~ok 19115                      rtX



- 50 -                                  ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. le2orts Related to the Sector
Vocational Training and Technical Education in Tanzania, Tanzania
(Ministry of Labor)/SIDA/DANIDA/GTZ, 1978
Higher Education for Self-Reliance:  The Tanzanian Experience,
IIEP/Unesco, 1977
Annual Budget Speech of the Minister of National Education, for
1977/78, 1978/79, 1979/80 (unofficial translations), Ministry of
National Education
Education Statistics (mimeo), 1978, Ministry of National Education
Third Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development, 1976-1981,
Volumes I, II, and III, Tanzania Government, 1979
Thriee-Year Social and Economic Development Plan, Zanzibar 1978-1981,
Zanzibar Planning Commission, 1978
National Education Act, 1978, Gazette of the United Republic of
Tanzania, no. 49, vol. LIX
Examination Statistics and Results, 1976, 1977, 1978, National
Exaiminations Council of Tanzania
Annual Manpower Report to the President, 1976, 1977, Ministry of
Manlpower Development
B. Reports Related to the Project
Seventh IDA Education Project Proposals, United Republic of
Tanzania, April 1979
Twenty "A" Level Secondary Schools: Textbooks, Laboratory Equipment,
Furniture and Renovation, vols. I, II, Ministry of National Education, 1979
ProJect Proposal for the Expansion of the Nkrumah Teacher
Training College, Tanzania Government, November 1978
C. Working Papers and Tables
1. Architectural Working Papers
2. Educational Worksheets and Working Papers
3. Socio-Economic, Enrollment and Financial Working Papers



- 51 -
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
SEVENTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Key to Map
Project Items
Sector                      Name of Institution                        Region
A-1 New Facilities to Existing and New Primary Schools
A-l.l   In Monduli District                                            Arusha
A-1.2   In Kiteto District                                             Arusha
A-1.3   In Lindi Rural District                                        Lindi
A-1.4   In Kilwa District                                              Lindi
A-2.L-16 Furnishing and Equipping Existing Primary Schools in 16 Districts
B-1 New Secondary Schools - Forms I to VI
B-l.l   Demonstration School, University of Dar-es-Salaam              Dar-es-Salaam
B-1.2   Secondary School in Ngara                                      Ziwa Magharibi
B-2 New Form V and VI Streams Added to Lower Secondary Schools
B-2.1   Existing Secondary School, Msalato                             Dodoma
B-2.2   Existing Secondary School, Same                                Kilimanjaro
1B-2.3   Existing Secondary School, Nganza                             Mwanza
B-2.4   Existing Secondary School, Sengerema                           Mwanza
B-3 Additional Form V and VI Streams in Upper Secondary Schools
B-3.1   Existing Secondary School, Ilboru                              Arusha
B-3.2   Existing Secondary School, Tambaza                             Dar-es-Salaam
B-3.3   Existing Secondary School, Kilakala                            Morogoro
B-3.4   Existing Secondary School, Korogwe                             Tanga
B-3.5   Existing Secondary School, Rugambwa                            Ziwa Magharibi
B-3.6   Existing Commercial School, Shinyanga                          Shinyanga
B-4 Reeguipping Science Facilities in Upper Secondary Schools
B-4.1   Existing Secondary School, Kibaha                              Coast
B-4.2   Existing Secondary School, Minaki                              Coast
B-4.3   Existing Secondary School, Pugu                                Dar-es-Salaam
B-4.4   Existing Secondary School, Mazengo                             Dodoma
B-4.5   Existing Secondary School, Moshi                               Kilimanjaro
B-4.6   Existing Secondary School, Shinyanga                           Shinyanga
B-4.7   Existing Secondary School, Tabora                              Tabora
B-4.8   Existing Secondary School, Tabora                              Tabora
B-4.9   Existing Secondary School, Ihungo                              Ziwa Magharibi



- 52 
Sector                        Name of Institution                     Region
B-5 Additional Form I-IV Streams in Lower Secondary Schools
B-5.L  Existing Day Secondary School, Dodoma                         Dodoma
C-1 Additional Facilities to Four Teacher Training and One Technical Colleges
C-l.1   Existing College of National Education, Monduli               Arusha
C-1.2   Existing College of National Education, Kasulu                Kigoma
C-1.3   Existing College of National Education, Tukuyu                Mbeya
C-1.4   Existing College of National Education, Mtwara                Mtwara
C-1.5   Existing College of National Education, Dar-es-Salaam         Dar-es-Salaam
C-2 Primary Teacher Training Colleges
C-2.1   New PTT College at Zanzibar                                   Zanzibar
C-2.2   Nkrumah PTT College at Zanzibar                               Zanzibar
D-1  Provision of Infrastructure to Tanzania Elimu Supplies
D-l.l   Facilities to Zone Warehouse, Arusha                           Arusha
D-1.2   Facilities to Zone Warehouse, Dodoma                           Dodoma
D-1.3   Facilities to Zone Warehouse, Mbeya                            Mbeya
D-1.4   Facilities to Zone Warehouse, Mtwara                           Mtwara
D-1.5   Facilities to Zone Warehouse, Mwanza                           Mwanza
D-1.6   Facilities to Zone Warehouse, Kigoma                           Tabora
D-2 National Examination Council
D-2.1   Facilities to existing office building                         Dar-es-Salaam



-      -                   ~~~~~~~~~IBRD 14718R
LI GANiE A                                                                                         10K0[O
RIW AN DA       (Aet   WE-                                                                              1I1'IA'-/                                                                     01
RWANDA  ft                                               j <-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~07    v~~~Md                                     OWjT,60'
I -k '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      U
KI"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                 -C01--0-
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71
-7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        II"A 1 M;11
K GD'~~0                                                                      /~ri          i        -      000~,                                           001-W 410 11II.
`o)F                               W
ZAIREBri                                                                                                                                                          ANAIA0
0'  *        \1                                                                                             BOOMBASA     SEVENTH  EDUCATION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LVAL
N      17~~~~ K~~                                                                                   .  'ThSHCTJN                                PROJECT~~~~~~~d"I
F  --                                                                                                                  1$ 0o0 4000001~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IP,~
A1                                 t  
00040 -    1~o                                            oAiEUBOW,                                                            w1~iN               14010110000001100110
v                                                                                                    MFMR~~'00O000IO,1000lO-T
AATNA2040*0,00 001



