Report No. PID5952
Project Name                     Romania-Health Sector Reform (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Basic Health
Project ID                       ROPE08797
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: Str. Ministerului Nr.1-3,
70109 Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Dr Carmen Angheluta,
Director, WB Project Coordination Unit
Tel: +40 1 314 1526
Fax: +40 1 312 4916
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 29, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 7, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
(A more comprehensive account of the Strategic Context is in the document
entitled "Romania: Health Sector Support Strategy", World Bank Report
Number 18410-RO, 1999.)The main sector issues are: (a) weaknesses in
governance of the system and the legislative framework; (b) technical and
institutional shortcomings in the efficiency and transparency of sector
financing, combined with a need for further progress towards the goal of
equity in health finance; (c) structural and functional inefficiency in
the organization of physical capacity and human resources in the health
care delivery system, overlaid on critical inadequacies in infrastructure
in many areas through years of lack of maintenance and investment,
exacerbated by ad-hoc processes of making new investment decisions; (d)
mismatch between the health needs of the population and the priorities and
focus of health services; and (e) consumer dissatisfaction with the health
services.
2. Objectives
In Phase I, the Project would support activities directed at achieving the
following objectives:(a) development of frameworks and capacity for
policy, planning, regulation, finance and management which will foster
rationalization and upgrading of physical and human resources in the
publicly financed health system, and re-alignment of the health system to
focus on improving the population's health; (b) improvement in the
quality, cost-effectiveness and technical efficiency of primary health
care, essential secondary-level healthcare services and emergency medical
services in selected judets; including testing of the scope improve these
dimensions of performance through better coordination and communication
between PHC and secondary level services; and between the ambulance
system, hospitals and other emergency services;.(c) modernization of
public health services, including the legislative environment, and



reallocation of resources to tackle selected major causes of preventable
illness and death, beginning with: tobacco control; tuberculosis
prevention, diagnosis and treatment; STD/HIV prevention; development of
humane, community-based mental health services with appropriate protection
of patients' rights.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will add value to the Health Sector Reform Program by: (i)
working with Romanian professionals and partner agencies to focus the
reform program on the most important health problems, on long-run
sustainability and on systemic changes to improve efficiency; (ii)
facilitating a coalition of domestic and external stakeholders in support
of the health sector; (iii) providing access to, and encouraging the
adaptation of, relevant international experiences from within and outside
the formerly socialist economies of Eastern Europe, based in part on
lessons from Bank-supported initiatives; and (iv) enabling coherence among
the range of sectoral adjustments being undertaken by the Government with
Bank support.
4. Description
The Proposed Loan will be a two-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL) of
US$60 million, with a first phase lasting three years. Total Project
costs are estimated at US$112 million.Major Project components will be as
follows:
1. Planning and Regulation of Healthcare Delivery System: This component
will support planning for rationalization of physical and human assets,
and development of policy, regulatory, institutional and financing
frameworks to foster efficient resources allocation in the health care
delivery system. It will also include Health Information Strategy (HIS)
rationalization.
2. District Hospitals: Essential Upgrade & Integration Initiatives: This
component will support limited civil works and equipping of operating
theaters and intensive care units in 20-25 district hospitals in phase
one, with additional investment in service development in four pilot
districts in phase one; it will also support management information
systems development and associated training, and pilot mechanisms for
better integration between primary and secondary health care.
3. Primary Health Care Development: This component will support staff
development for health professionals working in primary care, and
upgrading of public sector primary care facilities in five pilot judets in
phase one, with priority given to improvement of access to care in rural
areas.
4. Emergency Medical Services: This component will provide medical and
communications equipment, ambulances and training to support establishment
of integrated emergency medical services in some districts, and upgrade of
existing emergency medical services in other districts. Priority is given
to areas with highest road traffic accident frequency.
5. Public Health & Disease Control: This component will support a process
through which the health status gap between Romania and Western Europe can
be reduced. Activities will include technical assistance, training,
equipment and infrastructure support. The Project will support
national-level interventions, including legislation and regulations, as
well as community-based interventions focusing on reducing exposure to the
risks of diseases, public health education, prevention and promotion, and
advocacy.
-2-



6. Project Management: This component will support project management and
implementation over a five-year project period. This implementation
structure will form the foundation for implementation of the overall
reform program over subsequent years.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               60.0
IBRD                     60.0
Total Project Cost       112.0
6. Implementation
Project implementation will be coordinated and centrally-managed by a PCU
located in the MOH. The PCU will be responsible for overall coordination,
project monitoring and reporting, procurement, disbursement.. Each of the
main sub-components will have a designated agency responsible for
day-to-day implementation under the supervision of the PCU, as follows:
TheDepartment of Development and Planning of Resources for Health Services
of the MOH, with support from the Institute of Health Services Management
(IHSM), will be responsible for components which focus on health services
policy and planning (component 1 in Phase I of the Project), with
oversight from an advisory committee representing the MOH and NHIH.
Secondary and PHC development to be implemented in the the five pilot
judets will be managed locally by a full-time project manager based in the
District Public Health Authority, supported by a part-time accountant,
and part-time health services specialist. The Medical Assistance
Department of the MOH will be implementing the emergency medical services
component, with oversight from an advisory committee representing the MOH,
Fire Department, the Department of Local Public Authorities, and Hospital
Managers.The Public Health Department of the MOH will be implementing the
public health Strategy Development and Capacity Building sub-component,
under the oversight of an advisory committee representing the MOH, Public
Health Institute and Institute of Health Services Management. Priority
intervention programs involving policy, regulation and health promotion
activities (tobacco control and STD/HIV prevention in Phase I of the
Project) will be implemented by the Center for Health Promotion (in the
Institute of Health Services Management). The TB control sub-component
will be implemented by the Institute for Tuberculosis and
Pneumophthysiology, which has experience with implementation of the first
Romania health project. The Mental Health sub-component will be
implemented by the Department of Public Health in the MOH in collaboration
with the Obregia Psychiatric Hospital, under the oversight of an advisory
committee also representing the Romanian Psychiatric Association, Romanian
Mental Health League, and WHO.
7. Sustainability
The following factors are critical for sustainability of project benefits:
(i) stable or growing public health revenue; (ii) stability in health
sector strategy and sector management; (iii) Government's willingness and
capacity to infuse health system with increased incentives for efficiency,
quality and affordable access; (iv) Government and population's
willingness and ability to increase health expenditure in the areas of
greatest need: primary care, essential hospital services and public
health; and (v) private sector's willingness and capacity to manage health
services as or more efficiently than the public sector, and to comply with
-3 -



contracts with HIH regarding quality, access and patient copayments.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The ECA Region's experience to date provides a number of lessons to be
taken into account in designing and implementing health projects in
countries undergoing political, economic and social transition. The
lessons include the following: (a) under the best of circumstances,
health sector reform remains a long and politicized process; (b) the most
technically sound strategies cannot be implemented in the absence of
strong, capable institutions and political will; and (c) the impact of the
political economy and the sensitivity surrounding even seemingly simple
health sector reforms are significant and must be directly addressed from
the outset through comprehensive public information and communication
strategies targeted at the full range of stakeholders. Experience has
also shown that, despite the best efforts of staff and clients,
expectations have continued to be placed too high: projects have tended to
be too complex, and implementation requirements and timeframes have often
been too rigid.     The first health project, the Health Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 3409-RO), closed on June 30, 1999 after delays in
disbursements and four extensions of closing date. The main lessons drawn
from implementation of the Health Rehabilitation Project concern project
complexity, the need for flexibility during implementation, and the need
for continued investment in developing local capacity for sector policy,
planning and management. It is unrealistic to specify ex ante health
system development activities in great detail. Although the goals of
improved health status, sustainable financing and efficiency remain
constant, the policy environment changes and the Bank must be flexible in
the activities to be financed as well as the mode of implementation. The
current Project is designed to ensure more successful implementation of
changes in the way health services are financed, organized, and delivered
through: (i) investing substantially during Project preparation in policy
dialogue to support the GOR's development of a strategy for health sector
reform, and to build a coalition of support for the strategy which is
likely to be robust through changes of administration; (ii) further
strengthening the local capacity on the ground, and on a smaller scale,
through selected experiments and pilots, prior to full-scale roll-out; and
(iii) ensuring public information is an integral part of the process,
thereby building a broad-based consensus which embraces the full range of
stakeholders in the reform process, including policymakers at all levels
of government, health providers, and the general population. Project
complexity will be reduced through limiting each phase in the program to a
restricted number of interventions, and timetables for implementation will
be determined on the basis of identified triggers which must be met before
proceeding to the next phase. The Project focuses predominantly on
tangible provider development activities and institutional development,
accompanied by a modest and flexible program of policy and regulatory
reform. Closer Project monitoring will also be better assured under such
a design.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The only potential issue involves the
rehabilitation of public health facilities. Plans for the rehabilitation
of public health facilities will include aspects that will ensure the
-4 -



environment is not negatively affected by the civil works supported under
the Project. No adverse environmental effects anticipated. The Project
will follow accepted Bank procedures. All hospital and health center
activities will incorporate appropriate and safe disposal of wastes.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Loraine Hawkins
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-7905
Fax:   (202) 477-1996
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop week ending April 7, 2000.
-5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



