                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 30301-RO

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (SCL-45680)

                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                          TO

                                      ROMANIA

                                         FOR

                          A HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
                             IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
                      OF THE HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM




                                    December 23, 2004




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 6, 2004)

                             Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
                                       1 Lei = US$ 0.000028603
                                     US$ 1 = Lei 28603

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Lending
CAD       Computer-Aided Dispatch
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEE       Central and Eastern Europe
CME       Continuing Medical Education
CVD       Cardio-Vascular Diseases
DFID      Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DOTS      Direct Observed Treatment Short-course
DRG       Diagnosis Related Group
EMS       Emergency Medical Service
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
EU        European Union
GOR       Government of Romania
GP        General Practitioner
ICD       International Classification of Diseases
IFC       International Finance Corporation
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MOH       Ministry of Health
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NICARE    Northern Ireland Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety -
                    International Business Unit
OSF       Open Society Foundation
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAL       Programmatic Adjustment Lending
PMU       Project Management Unit
PHC       Primary Health Care
PHRD      Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese Grant)
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PSRs      Project Status Reports
REMSSY3   Rehabilitation of the Emergency Medical Services System in Romania
SDC       Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SHC       Secondary Health Care
STD       Sexually Transmitted Disease
TB        Tuberculosis

                 Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
              Country Director    Anand K. Seth
                Sector Director   Charles C. Griffin
               Sector Manager     Armin H. Fidler
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Silviu Radulescu

                                          ROMANIA
      HEALTH SECTOR REFORM (ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN (APL) #1)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Beneficiary Analysis                                                    27
Annex 9. Implementing Agency Report                                              30

Project ID: P008797                                                  Project Name: HEALTH SECT REF (APL #1)
Team Leader: Silviu Calin Radulescu                                  TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: HEALTH SECT REF (APL #1)                                 L/C/TF Number: SCL-45680
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (94%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); HIV/AIDS (P); Injuries and
                            non-communicable diseases (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/06/1997                                     Effective: 09/01/2000                11/02/2000
     Appraisal: 02/02/2000                                         MTR: 09/30/2002                  11/19/2002
      Approval: 06/27/2000                                      Closing: 09/01/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:      UK Department of International Cooperation (DFID) and Swiss Agency for
                                           Development and Cooperation (SDC)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:                 Armin H. Fidler                                Annette Dixon
Team Leader at ICR:             Silviu Radulescu                               Loraine Hawkins
ICR Primary Author:             Ross S. Pavis; Dominic S.
                                Haazen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Romania Health Reform Project (APL 1) was the first phase of a broader two-phased Reform
Program that has sought to support the Government of Romania (GOR) in implementing a long-term
health reform strategy, based on an agreed Letter of Development Program which addressed key health
policy issues. The strategic purpose of this Program was a healthy Romania, with lower morbidity and
fewer premature deaths, equitable access to health services and improved efficiency of the health system.
The objectives of the overall APL Program are to: (a) improve efficiency and equity in the planning and
regulation of the health service delivery system; (b) reduce preventable deaths among emergency medical
cases; (c) improve access and quality in primary health care in poor and remote areas; and (d) help the
Romanian health sector to better focus on priority public health problems, thereby reducing preventable
illness and deaths.

The development objective for Phase I of the APL (WB loan $40 million, total project cost $69 million)
was to: (a) improve the capacity for policy, planning and regulation, finance and management in the health
sector; (b) improve quality, cost-effectiveness and technical efficiency in selected poor and remote areas,
essential hospital and ambulatory health care services and emergency medical services; and (c) modernize
public health services in the areas of tobacco control, tuberculosis prevention, AIDS/HIV prevention, STD
prevention, and community-based mental health care.

The project envisioned benefits to the following groups:

(i) The population at large, through reduced exposure to risk factors of major preventable illnesses;
(ii) Target populations at risk of TB, HIV/AIDS, and STD's;
(iii) Patients with acute and chronic mental health needs;
(iv) Populations in selected judets through improved quality of PHC, EMS and hospital services;
(v) The MOH, through improved capacity for policy analysis, regulation and public health planning and
      surveillance; and
(vi) Health workers, through improved equipment, and clinical and management skills.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable (N/A)

3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of the following six components:

1. Planning and Regulation of Healthcare Delivery System Component ($1.17 million). This component
was designed to provide technical assistance, training, studies, stakeholder consultation and information
dissemination to support the following: (a) development of health service plans in at least 75 percent of
judets to guide priorities for service development and for rationalization and of physical and human
resources; and (b) policy development and capacity building in the MOH in health service planning and
regulation. DFID was to finance training in planning for MOH staff and development of capacity at
community level to identify and address health problems.

2. Essential Upgrade of District Hospitals Component ($18.33 million). This component upgraded
operating theaters and intensive care units, and provided training in clinical management of emergency
cases in 24 district and teaching hospitals. Rehabilitation of the physical environment was the responsibility
of these hospitals to assure optimal conditions for proper installation and use of the new medical
equipment.


                                                      - 2 -

3. Primary Health Care Component (PHC) ($5.1 million). At the national level, this component was to
support development of national policy for vocational training, accreditation/certification, and continuing
medical education (CME) for doctors and nurses working in PHC. At the judet level, this component
supported the following activities in pilot judets: (a) CME for PHC teams in all six pilot judets; (b)
development and local adaptation of evidence-based guidelines for diagnosis/treatment/referral for common
conditions encountered in PHC in Romania; and (c) essential equipping of dispensaries and training of staff
in poor and remote areas. In addition, in five of the pilot judets, the Project was to support innovation in
service integration initiatives to rationalize diagnostic and ambulatory services in the hospitals and use
these services to support PHC.

4. Emergency Medical Services Component ($12.9 million). This component provided type B and C
ambulances, extrication vehicles, equipment for mass-casualty disasters intervention and medical
motorboats. It also supported investment in integrated, community-based emergency medical services,
coordinated with other emergency services (principally, fire departments), in order to reduce response times
and improve health outcomes for accident and emergency cases. The component was designed to establish
integrated dispatch systems with a single emergency phone number, integrated emergency response teams
in the judet capital cities, specialized extrication and rescue squads in fire departments of the capital cities,
first response teams in smaller towns, and one advanced mobile medical post in each judet for major
incidents. The component also supported public information and awareness campaigns.

5.    Public Health and Disease Control Component ($2.2 million).                  This component had two
sub-components: (a) Strategy Development and Capacity Building. This area of activity built public health
capacity in the MOH through technical and management training; development of a public health strategy;
rationalization of morbidity and mortality codes in line with ICD 10; and institutionalizing public health
surveillance and monitoring systems; and (b) Priority Interventions. This area of activity supported
cost-effective public health interventions in four priority areas: measures to reduce tobacco consumption;
roll-out of a modern TB control strategy; HIV/AIDS and STD awareness and education; and support for
implementation of new mental health legislation and development of modern, humane models for mental
health services, through establishment of a demonstration site for community-based mental health services.

6. Project Management ($0.3 million). This component supported the Project Management Unit (PMU)
already established in the MOH which supported the implementation of the first health project financed by
the Bank.    Each of the main sub-components had a designated agency or department in the MOH
responsible for day-to-day implementation under the supervision of the PMU. Procurement and
disbursement functions were managed by the PMU.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project well conceived. The
project was consistent with the Bank's Romania's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the
Board on June 3, 1997 (Report No. 16559-RO), which specifically highlighted the objectives related to
development of a sustainable health financing and management system, improvement of the health status of
the population, and increased ownership of the health sector by stakeholders in the society. The project
was also in line with the government strategy of 1997-98 to address the main sector issues, as well as with
the Romania: Health Sector Support Strategy (Report No. 18410-RO, 1999).




                                                       - 3 -

During preparation of the project, lessons learned from other earlier projects in the health sector in
Romania were considered and incorporated into the project design.            In addition, the project design
recognized and took into account the following major risk factors which could affect project
implementation, such as: (a) possible fluctuations in health care revenues, (b) possible instability in
insurance and provider management, (c) MOF, MOH, and other key stakeholders' willingness to accept the
changes to legislation, regulation, resource redistribution and governance arrangements envisaged under the
project, (d) whether local stakeholders could reach consensus on judet health service plans, (e) whether
sufficient incentives were put in place to attract consumers from secondary to primary level, in line with
new protocols, (f) stakeholders in District Health, Internal Affairs (Fire Department) and Local Authorities,
and staff unions, accepting integrated emergency services strategy, (g) whether sufficient counterpart funds
would be an issue, (h) weak Government implementation capacity, (h) sufficient incentives to encourage
most PHC staff to participate in training programs and use new skills and equipment, and (i) any
unforeseen changes in the Government or the MOH leadership.               To the extent possible, mitigating
strategies for each of these risk factors were put into place.

The objectives were clearly stated, important to the country's social development, and realistic in scale and
scope. It was also timely and appropriate for the situation in Romania at the time of project preparation,
considering the country's need for the improvement of the health system in light of deteriorating health
indicators, lack of effective public health policies, an ineffective health care delivery system, inefficient
management of health expenditures, and lack of transparency. Moreover, aside from the knowledge base,
the capacity for implementing such changes was quite limited. The focus of the Phase I Project on capacity
building, planning, and the focus on priority interventions was well founded.

Despite a significant number of varied activities, a good implementation plan, which was developed in
advance, proved to be critical in ensuring that project execution remained on schedule. The availability of
committed counterparts, not only at the PMU level, but also in each sub-sector targeted by the Project, was
also critical to achieving success. Where there were breaks in this continuity, due to changes in working
group composition, for example, the impact on project implementation was fairly clear and immediate.
Additional efforts on the part of both the Bank and the PMU were needed to get the schedule back on track.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's achievement of its objectives and outputs is considered Satisfactory (see a-c directly below).
Additionally, five trigger indicators were established to guide the movement from Phase 1 of the APL to
Phase 2. Three of these indicators were directed at policy issues and included: (i) that amendments to the
legal and regulatory framework for health care providers and for financing of health sector investment
would be initiated by the MOH; (ii) that a Public Health Strategy with targets in priority areas would be
issued; and (iii) a lending and/or leasing scheme for financing family physicians in primary health care
practices would be established by the Health Insurance House and operating at least on a pilot basis for six
months or more. The other two trigger indicators were related to project implementation, and included: (i)
that 3-4 judets in each socio-economic development region (at least 30 in total) would have completed
health services plans and associated investment and human resource plans for developing and rationalizing
capacity in the sector; and (ii)        that substantial progress would have been made on contractual
commitments (at least 80 percent) and disbursements (at least 70 percent) from APL 1. All of these five
trigger indicators were fully met.

(a) Improving the capacity for policy, planning, regulation, finance, and management of the health
sector.   Improvements have been made to the regulation of the health sector and the legal framework. The



                                                      - 4 -

provider payment and financing system has been and continues to be improved, while the various activities
with regard to improving health planning capacity have also made significant progress. A new strategy for
health services has been approved in June 2004. In addition, a number of legislative amendments have
been passed and new regulations issued in the areas of: (i) health insurance (major revision of insurance
legislation through Ordinance 150/2002), (ii) health professions (physicians ­ Law 306/2004, nurses ­
Law 307/2004, pharmacists ­ Law 305/2004), (iii) ownership and accountability of health care units
(transfer of responsibilities for a large part of public providers of health services to local authorities
through Ordinance 70/2002), (iv) organization and accreditation of hospitals and organization of
physicians' offices and ambulatory care departments of hospitals, and public-private partnerships for
improvement of health services quality and efficiency (Government Decision 717/2001), (v) development
of case-based, diagnosis related group (DRG)-type payment mechanisms for hospitals (specific provisions
allowing piloting in 23 hospitals were included in the framework contract for insurance funded health
services for 2002, and increased to 185 hospitals in 2004) (Government Decision 826/2002), and (vi)
leasing premises of publicly owned medical offices to physicians (Government Decision 884/2004), private
health insurance (Law 212/2004) are currently in process.

(b) Improving quality, cost-effectiveness and technical efficiency of Primary Health Care (PHC) in
selected poor and remote areas, essential hospital and ambulatory health care services and emergency
medical services. Essential equipment for hospitals, primary health care, ambulatory care, and emergency
medical services has been made available in 24 Districts and training has been provided, and thus, overall
quality and cost effectiveness, as well as technical efficiency have improved. Evidence provided to date
(see Annex 8 for Beneficiary Analysis) indicates that hospital equipment is being used effectively to
improve outcomes and provide superior patient care and is, overall, having a substantial impact.

The emergency care system was upgraded to improve the quality of care in life-threatening emergencies
through the provision of ambulances, extrication equipment, medical tents and other resources, thereby
reducing fatality rates and complications in cardiac emergencies and trauma. Local networks of emergency
services were established. Training was provided to members of emergency medical care teams, supported
with resources from the Swiss government, state budget and the loan. However, a regionally integrated
dispatch system, which was planned to reduce the emergency response time was not implemented because
the Government was not able to reach agreement on systems standards and technology.

(c) Modernization of public health services in the areas of tobacco control, tuberculosis prevention,
AIDS/HIV prevention, sexually-transmitted disease (STD) prevention and community-based mental
health care. A variety of steps were completed with overall positive results in meeting this objective. With
regard to public health, increases in the incidence of tuberculosis and sexually transmitted diseases were
registered until 2002, with 2003 data showing for the first time since the late 80s a small decrease. The
change in the trend of tuberculosis (TB) incidence can be attributed to several years of expansion of a TB
control program, better detection, more wide-spread use of the Direct Observed Treatment Short-course
(DOTS) protocols and improving cure rate for tuberculosis. Public health surveillance has improved, and a
new law for mental health has been adopted.

Though coming later than expected in the Project, a formal public health strategy was developed in
consultation with key experts and has been published and endorsed by the MOH. However, it has yet to be
disseminated although MOH gave assurances that this would be done shortly.

Project extension. The nine month extension was primarily due to additional time needed to procure and
implement the planning component of the project. The original concept was to obtain the technical
assistance for the judet-level planning early on in the project, but on further discussion, the MOH and the


                                                     - 5 -

Bank team agreed that it made more sense to have a high-level national plan completed first to provide a
vision for the judet-level plans, as well as specific targets, criteria and parameters to guide the local
planning process. This rearrangement of sequencing was successfully completed and allowed sufficient
time for the technical assistance to support the local planning effort.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The Project components are all rated Satisfactory, with the exception of Project Management, which is
rated Highly Satisfactory.

(i) Planning and Regulation of Healthcare Delivery System Component (US$2.87 million, of which
US$1.58 million from the loan). A final report on planning and regulation, developed at the judet level
with technical assistance, produced a first set of plans for development and rationalization of health
services at the judet, regional and national level, as well as a roadmap for implementation of the updated
National Hospital Rationalization Strategy. The original expectation was that health service plans would
be developed in at least seventy-five percent of the judets, but in fact, one hundred percent of the judets
participated.   The Government has formally approved this strategy. Capacity for planning has been
developed at local level, supported by comprehensive data collected and validated by the consultants. The
completion of the judet and regional plans included also a substantial process of consultation of key
stakeholders, including local government and health authorities, provider units, such as local hospitals and
clinics, and professional associations. The proposals from the district plans regarding establishment of
multipurpose health centers, their organization, financing and location were used in the preparation of the
second phase of the APL. As commented on above, training, workshops and study tours contributed to
increased capacity in the MOH for strategic planning and regulation. A strategic planning unit was
approved by Government to help with financial planning and analysis, and to help establish priorities. It
has not as yet been established, primarily because of organizational constraints such as ceilings on staffing
levels. It is currently operating as a "virtual unit," but assurances have been given that it will be operating
by January or February of 2005.

The Department for International Development (United Kingdom) (DFID) also financed technical
assistance (implemented by Northern Ireland Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety -
International Business Unit (NICARE), and supported training in planning for MOH staff and development
of capacity at the community level to identify and address health problems. Proposals to disseminate the
successful experience of community development pilots are being considered for further support.

In addition to the project related activities, the Project Management Unit (PMU) was also closely involved
with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) team in their evaluation of potential public-private
partnership opportunities for Bucharest hospitals and their implementation as demonstration transactions,
such as outsourcing of diagnostic services, concessions for dialysis services, and private management of
public hospitals. Overall, a great deal was accomplished in this component, consistent with the initial plans
for the component. Satisfactory.

(ii) Essential Upgrade of District Hospitals Component (US$22.6 million, of which US$18.24 million
from the loan). All activities related to this component were carried out in a timely and efficient manner. A
total of 27 hospitals received this equipment (19 county hospitals out of 41 country-wide, and eight
emergency hospitals in Bucharest), with the operating room equipment distribution completed by the end of
June, 2003. Because of savings and identified needs, additional equipment for endoscopy, and burn patient
management were purchased later in the project. A beneficiary analysis was carried out (see Annex 8)
which concluded that generally all the equipment was installed properly and meets the operational needs of
the facility, and that qualitative impact on care has been very good. However, the analysis also indicated



                                                       - 6 -

with the exception of teaching hospitals, that there have been some financial constraints on getting
maintenance, supplies, spare parts and so forth. In addition, in some cases there were delays between
delivery and installation resulting in a shorter warranty period. Finally, again in selected instances, there
was a lack of formal training and training materials available in Romanian. Efforts will be made to address
these concerns in Phase 2 of the Adaptable Program Lending (APL). Satisfactory.

(iii) Primary Health Care Component(US$4.57 million, of which US$3.33 million from the loan).
Outpatient diagnostic and primary care equipment has been delivered and installed in 19 outpatient
departments and 47 dispensaries in the six district covered by this component. Integrated assistance models
were developed to provide the appropriate linkages for referrals from primary care to specialist
consultations and diagnostic investigations. Together with the Open Society Foundation, training centers
for family physicians and specialty courses were provided.          In 2001-3003, through the Center for
Postgraduate Training, the MOH organized courses for physicians contracted as family doctors who had
started to work in primary care before the residency in family medicine was introduced. Completion of
these courses allowed these physicians to pass their specialty examinations in family medicine in 2002 and
2003. NICARE carried out a training needs assessment for family doctors that was used to improve
training programs in family medicine and supported development and dissemination of guidelines for
management of four common conditions in primary health care. Satisfactory.

(iv) Emergency Medical Services Component (US$17.45 million, of which US$13.85 million from the
loan). This component completed all of its major activities, though a full integration of regional dispatch
systems was not achieved in Phase 1 (see next paragraph). Tenders were carried out for the type B and C
ambulance procurement, extrication vehicles, equipment for disasters intervention and medical motorboats.
The final destinations for equipment were organized and the beneficiaries were established, taking into
account the stakeholder requests from hospitals, ambulance services and firemen. All deliveries were
finalized, and specific training programs for physicians, nurses and firemen were organized. The limited
training activities started with Government funds in 2003 were significantly expanded and accelerated after
a local contractor was selected to implement the Swiss funded Rehabilitation of the Emergency Medical
Services System in Romania (REMSSY3) training and technical assistance project. The project improved
training capacity through curriculum development, course accreditation and equipping of additional
training centers. Distance learning modules were developed. In 2004, over 900 physicians and nurses
working in ambulance services and hospital emergency departments were trained, exceeding targets set at
appraisal. Training activities will continue in 2005 for about 300 Emergency Medical Service (EMS) staff.
There is evidence that the equipment is being used effectively and having an impact on improved patient
care and outcomes, but there have been difficulties with quality of data for the M&E indicators. This
indicates that improvements to monitoring and evaluation approaches are needed in Phase 2 of the APL.

The project also examined the area of communications, and there was consideration of an initiative to pilot
an integrated computer aided dispatch (CAD) system in a number of judets. This is one of the main
unfinished areas in the continuum of emergency care.            This initiative was driven in part by the
government's decision to implement a universal 112 system in Romania, which would not be compatible
with existing ambulance dispatch approaches. To some degree, these decisions were delayed because of a
discontinuity of leadership in the emergency care department of the MOH, which led to, from the Ministry's
perspective, several redefinitions of this component. With technical support through the REMSSY project
the technical and financial implications of the different options for the integrated dispatch unit were
assessed and consultations of the main stakeholders were facilitated. Most investments related to integrated
regional dispatch systems have been shifted to Phase 2 of the Program. There were also some difficulties
in reaching agreements between the MOH and fire departments (under the Ministry of Interior), with regard
to management and responsibility for emergency activities, especially extrication vehicles. Eventually a


                                                     - 7 -

protocol was signed between the Ministries of Interior and Health. Satisfactory.

(v) Public Health and Disease Control Component (US$12.11 million, of which US$2.74 million from
the loan). This component of the project was composed of the following two sub-components:                (a)
Strategy Development and Capacity Building, and (b) Priority Prevention Programs. After initial delays,
the Public Health Strategy was recently completed and approved by the Government, though as of this
writing it has not been disseminated, as promised. (The Government has given assurances that it will be
disseminated in January or February of 2005.) Health promotion training was concluded for key staff at
national and local levels. Equipment for the reference public health laboratories has been delivered and
installed. Smoking cessation centers were refurbished and equipped and their staff was trained. Support
was provided to information and education activities for tobacco control. The government has adopted
legislation regarding smoking in public places and for limiting tobacco advertising. A new mental health
law has been passed, incorporating recommendations of technical working group supported by WHO. The
project supported training of staff in new methods of delivery of mental health services.

Important steps in passing laws and regulations coherent with project development objectives and allocation
of resources from Government funded National Health Programs towards activities in the priority areas
initially outpaced the implementation of key project activities financed from the loan. A few activities (e.g.
IEC activities related to HIV/AIDS and TB) were shifted for support by other donors. Satisfactory.

(vi) Project Management (US$0.22, of which US$0.17 million from the loan). Project management was
handled smoothly and efficiently, both in terms of organization and substance.                All fiduciary
responsibilities, audits, procurement processes and reporting obligations were effectively managed.
Specific requests for information or follow-up were handled quickly and efficiently. The PMU played a
major role in the successful organization of the Regionl Health PCU conference. The management of the
MOH was also quite engaged in both the policy area and management issues related to the project,
although frequent changes in Ministers and key ministry staff in the second half of the project caused some
continuity problems.

In addition to its regular management activities, the PMU was mandated by the MOH to become the MOH
unit responsible for working with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) on public/private
partnerships. In this capacity they became the primary interface between the MOH and the IFC, providing
excellent support to the IFC throughout it planning and contracting processes and helping them to develop
its national operation.

Finally, the MOH mandated the PMU to bid for and win a US$39 million grant from the Global Fund for a
TB/AIDS project in Romania. The PMU took on the addtional responsibility for the implementation of this
project. Because of these varied international projects, the PMU essentially became the MOH focal point
for international health assistance and continues to serve in this role. Highly Satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had substantial institutional development impact.




                                                     - 8 -

At the national level: The project signicantly increased the capacity of the MOH plan and manage the
health system. Specific attention was focused on health services rationalization planning and analysis. The
project also assisted the overall health sector reform and strengthened the national capacity for managing
three of the main systems in the healthcare system ­ Primary Healthcare, Emergency Medical Services,
and Hospital Services rationalization. A national Public Health Strategy and an Action Plan for the period
2004-2007 were also written and adopted by the Government.

At the local level: The project strengthened the local government capacity to implement health reform by
providing training in analyzing local health services and planning for the restructuring of the health care in
all regions of the country. The completion of rationalization plans for all judets in the country is a major
achievement.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside of Government's control. However, it should be noted in a positive
light that donor coordination under the project was an example of good cooperation and coordination. The
delay in contracting SDC funded technical assistance was compensated through efforts during
implementation of activities, that provided excellent support to the reform process of emergency services.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Political turbulence. Although there was a change in Government at the time the project moved from
preparation to implementation, it did not have a marked impact on the actual pace of implementation.
However, frequent changes of ministers and other senior staff during the implementation period, did at
times lead to a certain discontinuity, especially with regard to the Emergency Medical Services component.

Rivalries between various elements in the EMS component. Because of internal rivalries between the
EMS department of the MOH, ambulance services, hospital based EMS staff, and the Fire Department in
the Ministry of Interior, there were some differences between the original concept for the EMS component
and the eventual implementation of this component in a number of judets. Eventually these issues were
resolved.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
For the most part, essential government decisions were made in a timely fashion. Decisions were mostly
met in a timely way through a concerted effort of the MOH and MOF and other key government ministries.
This was particularly evident toward the end of the project, with respect to the Programmatic Adjustment
Lending (PAL) conditionalities relative to the rationalization plans and the Public Health Strategy
development. One exception would include lack of decision with regard to a regional integrated dispatch
system.

Highly competent, continuous project management. Despite a change in Government fairly early in the
process, the decision to keep the same staff in the MOH Project Management Unit was essential to ensure
continuity, with very little negative impact on the final implementation timelines.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Original project cost for Phase 1 (the Project) of the reform program was estimated at US$69.84 million,
with IBRD providing US$40.0 million, of which $39.91 million was disbursed.

In addition to counterpart funds, DFID provided $1.0 million for Planning and Regulation, SDC provided
$0.5 million for Emergency Medical Services, and the Open Society Foundation provided $0.6 million for



                                                      - 9 -

Primary Health Care Development. Original estimates in the PAD for each component were: (i) $2.52
million for Planning and Regulation; (ii) $25.80 million for District Hospitals; (iii) $7.74 million for PHC;
(iv) $22.73 million for EMS; (v) $10.08 million for Public Health; and (vi) $0.97 million for Project
Management.

Major changes from these estimates include the following: Primary Health Care was reduced to $4.57
million due to savings incurred by competitive bidding. The Planning and Regulation Component
increased to $2.87 million as the Government decided to work with one hundred percent of the judets, as
opposed to the 75 percentage which was originally proposed in the PAD. Project Management costs were
reduced to $0.22 million as the PMU took on management of a $39.0 million Grant from the Global Fund
for TB/AIDS, which therefore assumed a proportionate share of the overhead costs.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Given the fact that this was Phase 1 of an APL, which is now being followed by Phase 2, which will
continue and build on what has been achieved, the overall sustainability of the project is judged to be
Highly Likely. Specifically:

Component 1: Planning and Regulation of the Health Care Delivery System: health rationalization plans
were developed by 100 percent of judets and have been adopted nationally. The development process was
collaborative so that health departments at every level of government were closely involved. A substantial
number of health sector and other MOH staff have been trained in the areas of strategic planning, health
financing and management.

Component 2: District Hospitals: Essential Upgrade: the beneficiary report (Annex 8) is largely positive.
There are some anecdotal instances of lack of funding for maintenance but these issues are being addressed
in Phase 2 of the program. It is also expected that additional funding will be provided in future as a DRG
system is adopted.

Component 3: Primary Health Care Development: a wide variety of primary health care professionals
have been trained, accredited and certified. New guidelines and procedures have been developed. It is also
expected that the proportion of budgetary funds going to primary health will increase.

Component 4: Emergency Medical Services: Emergency medical care teams have been trained and
equipment and emergency vehicles provided. There is some concern that ambulances purchased under the
first Bank funded health project are now falling in disrepair and need replacement. These are not being
provided for in Phase 2 and the Government must take steps to ensure funding in this area.

Component 5: Public Health and Disease Control: a comprehensive public health strategy has been
developed and adopted by the Government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
On December 16, 2004, the World Bank approved US$80.0 million for Phase 2 of the Romania Health
Sector Reform 2 Project, which will, together with co-financing from the European Investment Bank and
the Government of Romania, build on, help sustain, and further develop the objectives achieved under this
project.




                                                   - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
health sector. The Project was consistent with, and fully integrated into, the government's development
priorities and the Bank's country assistance strategy. In addition, the project took into account lessons
learned from the previous project as well as issues derived from the social assessment, carried out during
project preparation. At the time of preparation the key sector issues were the following:

 i. Weaknesses in governance of the system and the legislative framework;
ii. Technical and institutional shortcomings in the efficiency and transparency of sector financing,
     combined with a need for further progress towards the goal of equity in health finance;
iii. Structural and functional inefficiency in the organization of physical capacity and human resources in
     the health care delivery system, overlaid on critical inadequacies in infrastructure in many areas
     through years of lack of maintenance and investment, exacerbated by ad-hoc processes of making new
     investment decisions;
iv. Mismatch between the health needs of the population and the distribution and priorities of health
     services; and
 v. Consumer dissatisfaction with the health services.

An Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was seen as the appropriate instrument to address these issues,
particularly as the Government's development strategy called for phased implementation over an extended
time period, and because an APL provided the flexibility to adapt the second phase of implementation in the
light of evaluation of pilot initiatives planned during Phase I. During the appraisal, the Bank assessed the
project's risks and benefits and each was designed to address the key sector issues identified.

The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Extensive stakeholder consultation was highly productive, and initiated a process of ownership
that proved invaluable during implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.     The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. As part of this effort, there was a Bank health specialist on the ground working out of the
Country Office providing full time support. The Bank's client relationship was cordial and productive and
there was frequent consultation with the Ministry and other stakeholders impacted by the project. Review
teams included specialists in public health, information systems, financial management, operations,
disbursement, and procurement.

Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the Government to problems with project execution and facilitated
remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The Project Status Reports (PSRs)
realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives
and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank's task team was able
to define concrete steps and timetable for putting the project back on track and pace. The Bank paid
sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The quality of advice, and the follow-up on
agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants and remedies were enforced effectively.



                                                     - 11 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower displayed a high level of commitment to the objectives of the project, and
together with Government experts and consultant teams ensured the highest quality of all major aspects,
such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological factors, and including
stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the implementing agencies both at the
central and judet levels worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis. Government
commitment to the policy program and the project was demonstrated through policy dialogue with the
Bank, including several policy steps taken under the PAL Program. Key policies have been agreed in the
Letter of Development Program and the policy matrix which was the basis for the activities of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The Government consistently maintained its commitment throughout implementation of the
Project. The key project counterparts in the MOH consisted of senior policy makers and experienced
managers who were generally responsive and flexible. Their willingness to take corrective implementation
measures were effective in dealing with outstanding operational issues. Appropriate levels of review and
approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and expenditures
were duly authorized before they were incurred; and documentation was maintained properly for periodic
review. The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding problems, as GOR took timely corrective
measures and made appropriate budget provisions.

The Mid-term Review (MTR) process was handled smoothly, both in terms of the organization and content.
Specific requests for information or follow-up were handled quickly and efficiently. The management of
the MOH was generally engaged in both the management issues of the ongoing project, and specifically in
the MTR process.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The commitment to the project and its objectives by the implementing agency was very
strong, taking into account the change of key personnel in the MOH. The PMU was well organized and
very effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper all
records of the project. They were receptive to Bank advice, and highly collaborative with respect to
meeting demanding benchmarks and deadlines.
A highly capable implementation unit was able to address the complex implementation tasks of the project.
Regular reports and data on project management, procurement, disbursements, and financial status were
made available to the Bank as appropriate and in a timely fashion. The audit reports were also duly
provided and all had "unqualified opinions."

The project financial accounting was performed consistently and in accordance with International
Accounting Standards. The PMU regularly prepared project financial plans and ensured execution of
payments for rendered goods and services.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory. The Borrower was pro-active and results-oriented both during project preparation and
implementation. Based on all aspects of implementation, the Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.



                                                    - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

A detailed implementation plan, developed in advance, is critical to ensuring timely project execution and
organization. Similarly, more effort is needed up front in two critical areas: (a) planning for the training
associated with project activities, and (b) developing and planning for monitoring and evaluation --
including formulating methods for ensuring data accuracy and consistency.

Continuity of counterpart collaboration is critical, and if there are unavoidable changes, prompt and
effective steps must be taken to maintain ownership and understanding. This became an issue when key
members of the working group on EMS departed and the new membership had a markedly different
definition of the component.

When purchasing equipment which requires sustained care and maintenance, the funding of recurrent
expenditure needs to be adjusted to compensate for the additional costs of more effective and higher qualitiy
services. The beneficiary assessment on the district hospitals component identified cases where the revenue
from services reimbursed by the insurance system is not providing sufficient funding for maintenance and
supplies. (See annex 8.) This issue is being addressed in Phase 2.

Encouraging reforms, especially in the areas of public health, requires broad consensus and a critical mass
of stakeholder commitment if reforms are to succeed. Anecdotal evidence suggests, for example, that
smoking cessation centers have not been fully utilized.

Both investment and adjustment operations can be effectively used to further the overall health sector
reform agenda. The PAL conditionality and related technical assistance was essential in ensuring broader
Government attention to, and involvement in, the overall health reform agenda, and convering the important
gaps in this agenda. Additionally, technical assistance will be provided in the PAL program (as well as in
Phase 2 of APL) to ensure transparency and effectiveness in the use of health insurance funds.

Availability of committed counterparts in each substantive area is critical to success, especially during
periods of transitions in government.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

After reviewing this ICR, the Ministry of Public Finance, General Directorate for External Public Finance,
sent a letter to the Bank (dated December 23, 2004), confirming on behalf of the Borrower its agreement
with the content of the report, and adding: "We take advantage of this opportunity to express our high
appreciation to the Bank's team for their good cooperation and professional support during the project
implementation."

The following comments were included in the report received from the implementing agency (See Annex 9
for full report):

Very good preparation of the project was reflected in timely implementation; still an extension was needed,
especially for the planning component, which needed a longer time for getting started; the MOH
departments responsible for implementation were initially not very interested in developing the TORs and
implementing the project; however, after the PMU concluded the consultancy contract, the leadership of the
MOH strongly supported the project implementation. The continuation of the planning component results is
depending on the MOH leadership decisions in requesting at central and district level application of


                                                   - 13 -

planning exercises.

Some of the project components (essential hospital services for operation rooms and ICU) have been
extended by the MOH using commercial credits. The procedures started in the same time, but they have
been implemented with different speeds. A comparison of results is showing a much better achieving of the
objectives (delivery, installation and training) by the World Bank financed program. One important reason
is the utilization of the standard World Bank procurement contract, which assure a timely and safe
procedure and control for the beneficiaries. Lack of continuation of specialized staff at the level of the
department in charge was another reason for delay.

Utilization of the savings has been designated initially for building two integrated dispatch sysems which
could not be achieved due to the lack of political and technical commitment of all the parties involved. This
experience should be kept in mind and avoided for the future financing of the dispatch system.

The project was not too complex and permitted a smooth implementation.

The PMU trained in the previous and present World Bank program has been involved in many connected
projects which reflected in better coordination integration and quality of the MOH actions. The PMU
extended its number of staff and qualifications. At the same time the PMU staff became more skilled and
professional being able to deal with multiple projects financed by different internationals. The MOH
gained from the point of view of organization and management and quality of interventions.

Financial incentive for the staff is critically important. The improvement is obvious since PMU salaries are
financed by GFATM. The staff is very committed, stable and highly qualified.

The cooperation with the World Bank

The PMU and MOH had an excellent cooperation with the Bank's team. They are excellent professionals,
very well connected to the Romanian health needs and reality and very committed to support, to facilitate
the project implementation and to find flexible ways to solve different issues. There is also built an
interpersonal very good communication and relationships between the PMU staff and Bank's staff
reflected also in the good results.

It is already a tradition for the MOH and PMU to look for Bank's specialist guide and agreement in the
most important measures and actions, as an appreciation of the value of their value.

The PMU is highly appreciating the way the Bank's team has cooperated and worked in this project and
specially thanks for the permanent support and encouraging of the PMU for involvement in other projects.


(b) Cofinanciers:

Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation

Although the Swiss funding was initially delayed, once the contract was signed with the implementing
agency for REMSSY 3 project, training and technical assistance activities significantly speeded up.

Most of the training activities were completed by the end of 2004, including a needs assessment,
curriculum development, course accreditation and course delivery for the majority of the scheduled



                                                      - 14 -

students. In fact, in comparison to initial expectations at WB project appraisal, the number of trainees is
significantly higher than planned and the development of new modern training tools (such as the
development of distance learning modules), greatly exceeded the initial aims of the project.

In the area of communications, SDC was pleased to be able to respond through the implementing agency to
the urgent specific requests of the WB and PMU and made an assessment on the technical and financial
implications of the different options to be implemented by the Special Telecommunication Service (STS) as
part of the integrated dispatch unit at the district level. Also, the implementing agency organized the first
national meeting in which representatives of the health authorities from central level (senior Ministry of
Health officials) and local level (Directors of District Health Authorities), providers of emergency care
(heads of ambulance services and hospital emergency departments) and representatives of the STS and
their implementing agency discussed the integrated dispatch unit project.

Quality assurance units have been created at the district level as part of the REMSSY3 project. Their
structure and responsibilities were defined through an Order of the Minister of Health. New practice
guidelines and protocols, as well as standards for hospital emergency departments have been developed and
approved both by the MoH and the professional associations.

The Steering Committee of the REMSSY 3 project and the task force for emergency medicine played an
important role in securing co-financing from the Ministry of Health for training activities, and reaching
agreements on training and service standards.

The cooperation and coordination were very good, and the REMSSY3 project contributed a great deal to
the implementation of the modern and effective emergency medical system in Romania. SDC is willing to
consider additional funding in response to requests from the MoH for continuation and expansion of the
emergency care project activities.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                                       - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate


End of Program Indicators

Total expenditure for public health from all  Expenditure monitored for the duration of the achieved
sources                                       project
Decreased incidence of TB and STDs                                                          Incidence per 100000 population
                                                                                            2000: TB: 105.5; Syphillis: 45.2;
                                                                                            Gonorrhea: 21.9
                                                                                            2001: TB:115.3; Syphillis: 56.0;
                                                                                            Gonorrhea: 20.2
                                                                                            2002: TB: 121.9; Syphillis: 58.3; Gonorrhea:
                                                                                            17.5;
                                                                                            2003 TB: 116.2; Syphillis: 44.6 ; Gonorrhea:
                                                                                            11.6
Proportion of hospital admissions referred by Increase by 2005                              2000: 21.6%; 2001: 22%; 2002: 23.2%;
GPs                                                                                         2003: 21.8%
Mortality from road traffic accidents         Decrease by 2005                              Specific mortality from road traffic accidents
                                                                                            2000: 15.5 per 100000 population
                                                                                            2001: 16.3 per 100000 population
                                                                                            2002: 15.8 per 100000 population
                                                                                            2003: 14.6 per 100000 population
                                                                                            Hospital mortality from road traffic accidents
                                                                                            2001: 4.0 per 100 discharged;
                                                                                            2002: 4.9 per 100 discharged;
                                                                                            2003: 5.2 per 100 discharged
Mortality from myocardial infarctions         Decrease by 2005                              Specific mortality from myocardial infarctions
                                                                                            2000: 88.8 per 100000 population
                                                                                            2001: 93.7 per 100000 population
                                                                                            2002: 101.5 per 100000 population
                                                                                            2003: 99.9 per 100000 population
                                                                                            Hospital mortality from myocardial infarctions
                                                                                            2001: 20.7 per 100 discharged
                                                                                            2002: 18.4 per 100 discharged
                                                                                            2003: 17.9 per 100 discharged
Health behaviors - tobacco smoking            5% reduction by 2005                          2000: 20.8% regular daily smokers in
                                                                                            population with age >15 years

Project outcome/impact indicators

Legal and institutional framework for public  Target not defined                            Public-private partnerships for improvement
and private providers, conducive to efficient                                               of health services quality and efficiency
delivery                                                                                    (Government Decision 717/2001), revision of
                                                                                            health insurance legislation (Ordinance
                                                                                            150/2002), transfer of ownership and
                                                                                            accountability of most provider units to local
                                                                                            authorities (Ordinance 70/2002);
                                                                                            development of new hospital payment
                                                                                            mechanisms (pilot in 23 hospitals in 2002)
Development of judet health services plans    Judet health services plans agreed locally    2004: 42 judet plans (100%), 7 regional plans
                                              and nationally for at least 30 judets (>75%). and national plan completed
Proportion of PHC providers using protocols 50% of providers in phase 1 judets              NA
for common conditions
Proportion receiving qualified care before    Target not defined                            Proportion of major emergencies arriving at
admission for major emergency                                                               hospital by ambulance
                                                                                            2002: 39.4%; 2003: 42.6%
                                                                                            Percentage of major emergencies receiving
                                                                                            advanced care before admission
                                                                                            2002: 30.8%, 2003: 46.5%
DOTS compliance                               80% or more judets covered                    2003: 54.4% of population covered




                                                                 - 16 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Health service plans developed.                3-4 judets in each socio-economic          2004: 42 judet plans (100%), 7 regional plans
                                               development region, at least 30 judets in  and national plan completed
                                               aggregate
Number of staff from MoH and DPHA trained 10 staff from MoH and one staff from each of 2004: 10 staff from MoH and 135 staff from
in health services planning                    42 DPHA trained                            DPHA and District Insurance Houses trained
Operating theaters and intensive care units    Target not defined                         35 operating rooms and 27 ICU departments
equipped in District hospitals                                                            equipped in 19 district hospitals and 8
                                                                                          emergency hospitals in Bucharest
Primary care physicians trained                50% or more primary care practices in 6    In 2002-2003 4327 physicians completed
                                               Phase I judets                             family medicine training and passed specialty
                                                                                          examination
Clinical guidelines for prevention and         Target not defined                         4 guidelines for management of common
management of common conditions                                                           conditions in primary care developed
developed.
Ambulatory centers equipped to support         Target not defined                         19 ambulatory care centers equipped in 6
primary health care and provide diagnostic                                                pilot districts
services
Integrated dispatch systems                    20                                         1
Integrated emergency response teams            28                                         270 physicians and 510 nurses from
                                                                                          ambulance services trained
Specialized extrication teams functioning in   20                                         33
selected judets
Emergency departments and intensive care       20                                         24 intensive care units equipped, 64
units equipped                                                                            physicians and 46 nurses from emergency
                                                                                          departments trained
Increased proportion of major emergencies      Target not defined                         Percentage of major emergencies receiving
receiving qualified attendance before hospital                                            advanced care before admission
admission                                                                                 2002: 30.8%, 2003: 46.5%
National public health strategy with targets in                                           achieved
priority areas disseminated
Public health staff trained                    Target not defined                         15 staff trained in health promotion
Tobacco advertising further restricted;                                                   Legislation passed for banning tobacco
tobacco tax increased                                                                     advertising and smoking in public places
                                                                                          (laws 349/2002 and 90/2004), excise tax
                                                                                          increased, 3 smoking cessation centers
                                                                                          established and operating
TB bacteriologic diagnosis capacity upgraded                                              achieved
Public awareness campaigns on HIV/AIDS         At least two campaigns                     National information and education campaign
and STDs risks                                                                            conducted in 2002, 2003 and 2004

New mental health law and associated                                                      achieved
regulations adopted
Demonstration site for community-based                                                    achieved
mental health services established in one
area of Bucharest
Multi-disciplinary mental health care team                                                12 staff of demonstration mental health site
trained                                                                                   trained

1End of project




                                                                 - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Planning and Regulation                                      2.52             2.87           113.9
District Hospitals                                          25.80           22.60             87.6
Primary Health Care Development                              7.74             4.57              59
Emergency Medical Services                                  22.73           17.45             76.8
Public Health                                               10.08           12.11            120.1
Project Management                                           0.97             0.22            22.7

Total Baseline Cost                                         69.84           59.82
                        Total Project Costs                 69.84           59.82
                  Total Financing Required                  69.84           59.82


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          49.95             0.00         1.59          4.70         56.24
                                 (36.52)           (0.00)      (1.24)          (0.00)       (37.76)
3. Services                       0.00              0.40         0.00          0.70          1.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.40)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.40)
4. TA and Training                0.00              0.00         2.16          4.19          6.35
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.84)          (0.00)       (1.84)
5. Operational Costs              0.00              0.00         0.00          6.15          6.15
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          49.95             0.40         3.75          15.74        69.84
                                 (36.52)           (0.40)      (3.08)          (0.00)       (40.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          45.55            0.00         1.61           2.05        49.21
                                 (36.80)          (0.00)       (1.26)         (0.00)       (38.06)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.01           5.78         5.79
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.01)         (0.00)       (0.01)
4. TA and Training                0.00             0.00         2.13           2.69         4.82

                                                - 18 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.84)            (0.00)           (1.84)
   5. Operational Costs                    0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               45.55              0.00              3.75             10.52            59.82
                                          (36.80)            (0.00)            (3.11)            (0.00)           (39.91)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.       CoF.       Bank    Govt.     CoF.
Planning & Regulation          1.17         0.35         1.00        1.58         0.29        1.00      135.0     82.9    100.0
District Hospitals            18.33         7.33                    18.24         4.36                   99.5     59.5
PHC Development                5.10         2.04         0.60        3.33         0.64        0.60       65.3     31.4    100.0
Emergency Servs.              12.90         9.33         0.50       13.85         3.10        0.50      107.4     33.2    100.0
Public Health                  2.20         7.88                     2.74         9.37                  124.5    118.9
Project Management             0.30         0.67                     0.17         0.05                   56.7     7.5


  Latest Government contribution estimate does not include operating cost for the equipment covered by beneficiary
  units from revenue for services contracted with health insurance, and costs for training of the family physicians
  and EMS staff covered from state budget.




                                                          - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost Benefit Analysis
(Indicate currency, units and base year)

N.A.




                                         - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/27/1997                3    Sr. Health Specialist
                                             Health Specialist
                                             Project Officer

              05/25/1997                3    Sr. Health Specialist
                                             Health Specialist
                                             Project Officer

              10/05/1997                1    Health Specialist

              12/11/1997                4    Health Specialist (2)
                                             Operations Officer
                                             Project Officer

              04/27/1998                2    Sr. Health Specialist
                                             Health Specialist

              08/11/1998                2    Sr. Health Specialist
                                             Health Specialist

              10/12/1998                2    Sr. Health Specialist
                                             Health Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/08/1999                8    Health Specialists (3)
                                             Project Officer
                                             Biomedical Technology
                                             Specialist
                                             Program Assistant
                                             Sr. Implementation
                                             Specialist
                                             Program Team Leader

              05/10/1999                3    Program Team Leader
                                             Health Economist
                                             Project Officer

              07/12/1999                3    Program Team Leader
                                             Health Specialist
                                             Project Officer

              09/13/1999                5    Health Sector Leader
                                             Program Team Leader
                                             Sr. Health Specialist




                                              - 21 -

                            Human Development Specialist
                            Health Specialist

           12/13/1999    5  Health Specialists (2)
                            Sr. Implementation Specialist
                            Project Officer
                            Financial Management Officer

           02/07/2000    10 Program Team Leader
                            Sr. Implementation Specialist
                            Financial Management Specialist
                            Task Team Leader
                            Medical Equipment Specialist
                            Public Health Care &
                              Primary Health Care Specialist
                            Program Assistant
                            Information System Specialist
                            Operations Officer
                            Health Specialist


Supervision
           10/02/2000     3 Program Team Leader                S    S
                            Task Team Leader
                            Financial Management
                            Specialist

           03/09/2001     4 Program Team Leader                S    S
                            Task Team Leader
                            Sr. Health Specialist
                            Operations Officer

           07/09/2001     4 Program Team Leader                S    S
                            Task Team Leader
                            Financial Management Specialist

           11/16/2001     3 Program Team Leader                S    S
                            Task Team Leader
                            Procurement Specialist

           02/25/2002     3 Program Team Leader                S    S
                            Task Team Leader
                            Procurement Specialist

           04/09/2002     3 Program Team Leader                S    S
                            Task Team Leader
                            Financial Management Specialist

           05/20/2002     3 Task Team Leader                   S    S
                            Program Team Leader
                            Financial Management Specialist

           11/29/2002     3 Program Team Leader                S    S




                            - 22 -

                                            Task Team Leader
                                            Sector Manager

               03/10/2003              3    Program Team Leader                S    S
                                            Task Team Leader
                                            Sr. Operations Officer

               10/17/2003              4    Program Team Leader                S    S
                                            Sr. Health Specialist
                                            Task Team Leader
                                            Sr. Operations Officer

               02/11/2004              4    Program Team Leader                S    S
                                            Task Team Leader
                                            Health Specialist
                                            Sr. Operations Officer

               05/28/2004              5    Task Team Leader                   S    S
                                            Str. Health Specialist
                                            Sr. Operations Officer
                                            Procurement Specialist
                                            Health Specialist

 ICR
               11/07/2004             1     Operations Officer                 S    S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               94                           320
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    53                           176
  Supervision                            124                            295
  ICR                                       7                            21
  Total                                  279                            812




                                            - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


 1. Project Appraisal Document, Romania Health Sector Reform Project APL 1, Report No: 20171 RO,
    World Bank, May 2000
 2. Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire, November 2002
 3. Bank mission back to office reports and Aide Memoires 1997-2004
 4. Project Status Reports 2000-2004
 5. Project Implementation Plan
 6. Project Audit Reports
 7. Yearbooks of Health Statistics, 2000-2004, Center for Computing, Health Statistics and Medical
    Documentation, Bucharest
 8. Romania - Building Institutions for Public Expenditure Management: Reforms, Efficiency and Equity.
    A Public Expenditure and Institutions Review. Report No: 24756 RO, World Bank, August 2002
 9. National Hospital Rationalisation Strategy, Consultant report for the Romanian Ministry of Health,
    Bucharest, January 2003.
10. Planning and Regulation of Health Care System. Strategy and Implementation. GVG report to the
    Romanian Ministry of Health. Bucharest, May 2004
11. Monitoring and Evaluation Analysis of Romania Health Sector Reform Project APL 1, Intern report,
    June 2004
12. Evaluation Report on the Telecommunications Services Used by the Pre-Hospital Emergency Medical
    Services in the Seven Counties Operating the REMSSY III Program, Center for Health Policies and
    Services, Bucharest, May, 2004
13. National Public Health Strategy, document prepared for the Ministry of Health by the Center for
    Health Policies and Services, June 2004
14. Cost-Benefit Analysis of Telecommunication Services Used by Pre-Hospital Emergency Medical
    Services in the Seven REMSSY III-Program Countries, Center for Health Policies and Services,
    Bucharest, July 2004
15. Romania ­ Planning, Financing and Management, NICARE Final report of DFID TA Contract
    01-2277, July 2004
16. Report on Legal and Regulatory Changes Regarding Health Care Financing and Organization,
    Ministry of Health, Global Fund and World Bank Project Management Unit, Bucharest, July 2004
17. Project Appraisal Document, Romania Health Sector Reform Project APL 2, Report No: 28395 RO,
    World Bank, November 2004
18. Beneficiary Analysis, Institutul National de Cercetare-Dezvoltare in Sanatate, Bucharest, Romania,
    November 2004




                                                  - 26 -

    Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Analysis


          BENEFICIARY ANALYSIS OF DISTRICT HOSPITAL AND EMS COMPONENTS
                                                 SUMMARY

Carried out by Institutul National de Cercetare-Dezvoltare în Sãnãtate (National Institute for Health
Research and Development), Bucharest, Romania

A. GENERAL INFORMATION

Project Name:                   Romania Health Sector Reform Project APL1, District Hospital and EMS
    Components
Title of Consulting Services: Romanian Health APL1 Evaluation to improve APL2 M&E System                      Time
    interval: November 2004
Project Director NIRDH:          Dr. Iulian Popescu    Project Coordinator NIRDH: Dr. Dana Burduja
    Templates design: Dr. Dan Lazarescu

Number of facilities evaluated by district:

      District/     Hospital     Ambulance         Fire       Outpatient       Dispensary       NIHRD Evaluator
      Facility                                   Brigade
       Arges           1              1              1              2                1         Daniel Ciurea
      Botosani          1             1              1              2                7         Dan Lazarescu
        Dolj            2             1              1              2                2         Cipriana Pintia
      Covasna           2             1              1              2                3         Monica Paslariu
     Harghita           1             1              1              2                2         Ingrid Gheorghe
       Mures            1             1              1              0                0         Dana Burduja
      Prahova           1             1              1              0                0         Cristina Dinescu
      Tulcea            1             1              1              1                1         Geta Popovici
       Total           10             8              8             11                16

Special NIHRD acknowledgements for local support and involvement:
Local representatives of DPHAs and of the facilities evaluated.

B. SUMMARY AND KEY FINDINGS:

Site visits and interviews with appropriate persons at the above listed units were the basis for fulfilling the
assignment. 2-3 days visits were necessary for each visit, as presumed.

Following the proposed structure of the questionnaire, aggregated for all facilities visited and evaluated, both
in terms of number and structure, you can find bellow a general overview of the situation:

1. Is the equipment provided installed where it was originally intended, and is it currently operational?
    General answers:
    Generally yes, minor reallocations, especially for outpatient equipment (more specifically radiology and
    ambulatory), redirected to serve BOTH outpatient and Hospital facilities. Yes, most of the equipment is



                                                        - 27 -

   currently operational, even if installed very late and with limited warrantee (the official one was related
   with delivery date, not installation date)
   Inconsistencies: none

2. To what extent does the equipment meet the operational needs of the facility?
   General answers:
   Generally here the answer is "100% or more"; explanations are though quite different ­ remote and poor
   locations/regions got these equipments after years of using obsolete, unsafe and completely outdated ones;
   for teaching hospitals, the equipment is "filling in" existing limited pieces and allowing them to perform
   better and for a larger number of patients.
   Inconsistencies:
   Isolated, related with equipment provided with no instructions for installation and operation, local
   restrictions, equipment not respecting 100% technical specifications of the acquisition process.

3. What volumes of activity (weekly or monthly) are currently carried out using this equipment? To
   what extent has this changed since the equipment was installed?
   General answers:
   Again, for some areas/categories of the equipment, the actual rate of utilization is of great importance
   when compared to the previous situation, meaning "none of this type of activity before". Few of the users
   have consistent reporting and they are mainly related with the emergency medical services and hospital OR
   equipment (attached to the hard copy of the report). For the ones already operating similar equipments, the
   general utilization increased, for example, using the OR or the laboratory for 2 shifts (12 hours) instead of
   1 shift before installing these equipments (6 hours)
   Inconsistencies:
   No consistent utilization reports available, as general in the health system or for specific
   facilities/equipment

4. Have there been problems in obtaining maintenance services, supplies or other material necessary to
   keep the equipment operational (either availability or cost)? Specify.
   General answers:
   2 general issues: except for teaching hospitals, costs were identified as a constraint in getting maintenance,
   supplies, spare parts etc; also, for some of the equipment, the availability and cost issued came together as
   an obstacle because of single source/monopoly situations related with this kind of services needed after
   installation
   Inconsistencies:
   Not any other than the above mentioned

5. Have there been problems in obtaining reimbursement for activities carried out using this
   equipment? Specify.
   General answers: almost all the facilities/providers had complained about general health system
   reimbursing issues, either related to contracting or level of reimbursement, but none related these issues
   directly with the introduction of the new equipment.
   Specific important inconsistencies: none

6. What has been the (a) additional costs and (b) additional revenue attributable to this equipment?
   General answers:
   No consistent figures or reports existing generally at the facilities level, don't mention directly related with
   the new installed equipment; amortization still not included in the cost accounting of the public facilities
   from health in Romanian health system.


                                                        - 28 -

   Even though by empirical observation direct costs were considered higher, there was also observed a link
   with decreasing indirect costs (reduced number of complications, reduced lengths of stay, staff and patient
   satisfaction) or at least increasing also the quality and volume of the medical services proportional to the
   costs increase.
   As far as revenues, some of the interviewed people related the increased volume or the more complex
   activity with additional revenues, reimbursement schemes in the system being linked for most of the
   providers with the complexity of the medical service provided. Again, as for the costs also, no consistent
   general or specific figures or reports available
   Inconsistencies: none specifically

7. Have there been problems in obtaining training in (a) the appropriate operation of the equipment, or
   (b) the appropriate clinical indications and/or procedures for using the equipment? Specify.
   General answers: No major problems identified
   Inconsistencies: None

8. What has been the impact (qualitatively) of the introduction of this equipment?
    General answers:
    Major, very good; even though presented like this by most of the facilities, limited support data exists
    (attached hard copies of reports for some of the facilities); some of the generally considered as impact
    indicators mentioned by interviewed people are: reduce waiting time, reduced level of complications,
    improved survival of emergency cases or 28 days in the ICU departments, reduced number of referrals,
    reduced readmission rates, reduced time for interventions for emergency medical services
    Inconsistencies: None

9. To what extent did the introduction of this equipment lead to improved staff or patient satisfaction?
   Attach any survey results that may be available.
   General answers:
   Both staff and patients satisfaction survey and analysis are not a common tool in the Romanian health
   system; even though, either limited reports were made available from some of the sites (attached in hard
   copies) or direct observation were quoted as support for an improved satisfaction of patients and staff.
   Inconsistencies:
    Some of the interviewed representatives were mentioning reluctance of "senior" staff in operating new
    technologies, both in terms of difficulties in the learning process and increased responsibility.

10. To what extent did the introduction of this equipment lead to measurable changes in the quality of
    care or in health outcomes. Attach reports.
    General answers:
   Again, consistent monitoring of health status indicators of the respective population are not common in the
   health system generally, but some limited and indirect data could be submitted, mainly related to increased
   survival rate for major emergencies (like strokes, cardiac arrests, trauma etc), increased survival at 24/48
   hours for specific cases, increased quality of life after hospitalization, decreased mortality rate etc.
   Inconsistencies: no relevant ones.




                                                         - 29 -

 Additional Annex 9. Implementing Agency Report




                                                      ROMANIA

                                            MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                                      PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT OF
                          THE WORLD BANK AND GLOBAL FUND PROGRAMS
                                       Health Care Reform Project: Phase I
                                        Implementation completion report
                                            Loan agreement Ro - 4568

The program was carried out between November 2000 and June 2004 and was financed by a World Bank
loan in value of USD 40 millions.

It was the second World Bank project to support the health care system in Romania. The project supported
the key areas of the health sector strategy, defined in 1998-1999 by the MOH, as a result of the study made
by Interhealth Institute and all the stakeholders in the health sector in Romania.

Project objectives:

   l To improve quality and cost efficiency of the integrated medical assistance: primary health care,
        emergency care and hospital care;
   l To improve public health services and diseases control (TBC, HIV/SIDA and STD, mental health
        and tobacco consumption).

I. Project Implementation ­ Main Achievements

Component 1: Medical Services Planning and Regulation
Funds available: 1.58 millions USD World Bank loan
                  1 millions USD DFID (United Kingdom)
                  0.29 millions USD Romanian Government
Objectives: County medical services reorganization and development plans will be elaborated in the project
in order to respond to the population needs and to the cost efficiency principle. Also, medical services
planning specialists in the MoH and Local Health Authorities will be trained.

Main activities carried on between January 2001 and June 2004:

 ·   Terms of reference for technical assistance and medical services planning were elaborated and send to
     the World Bank for review.
 ·   The workshop for Planning Handbook was carried out;
 ·   The 1 million financing agreement and technical assistance with the Development Department of
     United Kingdom for the training program for the ministry specialists and for the development plans for
     2 counties that started in November 2001;
 ·   The MoH strategic planning unit was approved;
 ·   Four planning training workshops (Nicare) were carried out;

                                                       - 30 -

 ·   At the end of the program, Nicare organized a study visit in Great Britain for the MoH strategic
     planning unit.
 ·   The community health and development project continues in two towns: Braila and Calarasi (Nicare);
 ·   Terms of reference for Private Health Insurance Law consultancy were elaborated and send to the
     World Bank for review.
 ·   The health system planning and regulation consultancy procurement is under evaluation;
 ·   The national strategy for hospital services rationalization was developed ­ 54,545 USD.
 ·   The contract with GVG for National Strategy of Health Services Planning was concluded ­ June 2003
     ­ 1,525,052.40 USD;
 ·   The final report regarding the National Strategy of Health Services Planning was developed by GVG ­
     May 2004, consisted of:
             1. Project evaluation
             2. The roadmap for the Health Services
             3. The synthesis of the health services developing regional and county plans by 7 regions;
             4. The synthesis of the Health Services Developing National plan
             5. Planning Manuals

The objectives of the component have been achieved. Despite of the initial reluctance of the departments
of the MOH to start the project implementation, the results have been highly appreciated by the Minister of
Health and constituted the base for the Strategy of the Health Services on medium term, approved through
Government decision. Based on the hospital rationalization strategy produced by the project in 2003, MOH
started active measures for closing down 22000 hospital beds, transforming inefficient heath units in
socio-medical units, creation new services. The level professional skills for planning the heath services of
the specialists from DPHA and HIH increased.

Component 2 ­ Modernization and Integration of the Essential Hospital Services
Funds available: 18.24 millions USD World Bank loan
                   4.36 millions USD Romanian Government
Objectives:
l The operating rooms and the intensive care units from 19 county hospitals and from 8 Bucharest
     emergency hospitals;
l Emergency clinical management training in order to reduce deaths due to medical and surgical
     emergencies;
l Hospital emergency services integration with the pre-hospital emergency in order to increase the
     emergency medical care quality.


Main activities carried on between January 2001 and June 2004:
·   The bids for county hospitals and emergency (intensive care) equipment were performed;
·   The hospitals prepared with their own funds the needed physical rehabilitation for these equipment
    installation under optimal conditions;
·   Contracts in value of 13, 073, 999,12 USD were concluded and the equipment was delivered (intensive
    care); the equipments needed for Intensive-Care Sections in 19 county hospitals and 8 emergency
    hospitals from Bucharest were delivered and installed (see Appendix).
·   The training program for physicians and nurses was started (the list of physicians and nurses and the
    curricula were send to the Training Center);
·   It was concluded the contract for the procurement of operation rooms equipment in value of 1,431,430
    USD; the equipments needed for operation rooms in 19 county hospitals and 8 emergency hospitals from
    Bucharest were delivered and installed (see Appendix).

                                                      - 31 -

·   It was concluded the contract for the procurement of the endoscopic equipment                for emergency
    interventions fast diagnosis, in value of 3, 070, 376 USD; the equipments were delivered and installed
    (see Appendix).
·   Contracts were concluded as a result of some international shopping, in value of:
         1. 79, 980 USD for procurement of PCR equipment;
         2. 42.600.00 USD for an arthroscopic equipment;
         3. 84, 324.34 USD for an urologic endoscope equipment;
         4. 48, 882.66 USD for an urologic vessel sealing system;
         5. 36, 485.00 USD for a vessel sealing system;
         6. 45, 419.00 USD for a radiofrequency ablation system;
         7. 78, 302.00 USD for 2 types of analyzers;
         8. 66, 500.00 USD for another 2 types of analyzers;
        9. 184, 200.00 USD for equipment for ICU burned patient unit

The objectives of the component have been achieved. The equipment was delivered and successfully
installed (see appendix) and the training of the specialist performed. According to the beneficiaries these
achievements have very good consequences for the quality of health care in the targeted sites.

Component 3 ­ Primary Health Care
Funding: 3.33 millions USD World Bank loan
          0.64 millions USD Romanian Government
          0.6 millions USD Open Society Foundation
Objectives:
   l Development of services integration strategies initiatives designated to the coordination between
        primary, secondary and emergency health care.
   l Development of initiatives to assure emergency and permanent primary care in underprivileged
        areas.

Main activities carried on between January 2001 and June 2004:
   l The persons in charge in the 6 pilot counties were selected and also the dispensaries from the
        underprivileged areas or without a physician
   l The specialty hospitals outpatient clinics were selected to cooperate with the family physicians from
        the area for outpatient clinic investigations and specialty consultations for the patients;
   l The collaboration ways between family physicians and outpatient clinic specialists were established
        (integrated assistance models);
   l Equipment tenders for the selected dispensaries and specialty outpatient clinics were organized;
   l For the specialty outpatients contracts were concluded in value of 3,274, 395 USD;
   l For the dispensaries the contract value is 119, 922 USD;
   l All the equipment was delivered;
   l Together with the Open Society Foundation Training Centers for family physicians and specialty
        courses were provided.

The main component objectives have been achieved. The majority of the upgraded dispensaries targeted
by the program, attracted physicians which contracted with the HIH. The community which initially has
been underserved related to primary care have improved access to family doctor. The integration with
ambulatory care for access of family doctors to the diagnostic facilities is partially functioning. The
motivation is the requirement of the HIH for using only accredited laboratory for the test paid by the heath
insurance. The present framework contract with the HIH will introduce improvement to permit to the small


                                                      - 32 -

laboratories in the country to perform diagnostic services.

The MOH initiated a large intensive training program (6 months) for the GPs in the country in family
practice. By the end of the modules they participated to a graduation exam organized by the MOH with the
professors from University of Medicine Centers.

Component 4 ­ Emergency Medical Services
Funds available: World Bank: 13.85 millions USD
                  Romanian Government: 3.10 millions USD
                  Swiss Development Corporation: 0.5 millions USD

Objectives: to improve the community emergency medical services by equipment provision, technical
assistance and professional training in order to decrease the answering time for the emergency calls and to
improve the medical act performance.

Main activities carried on between January 2001 and June 2004:
    ·   The tenders were carried out for the type B and C ambulance procurement, extrication vehicles,
        equipment for disasters intervention and medical motorboats.
    ·   Contracts were concluded for all the types of equipment mentioned above in value of 13, 314,
        096.96 USD;
    ·   The final designations for equipment were organized and the beneficiaries were established, taking
        into account the territory involved specialists' requests from hospitals, ambulance services and
        firemen.
    ·   All deliveries were finalized: 125 ambulances B and C, 33 extrication vehicles and 33 units for
        disasters intervention and 2 medical motorboats (see appendix);
    ·   Training specific programs for physicians, nurses and firemen were organized and started.
    ·   Protocol signed with the Ministry of Interior for using equipment procured by the project and train
        integrated teams for interventions in emergencies;
    ·   Terms of reference were elaborated for the technical assistance and financed by the Swiss Govern
        and discussions were made with the Swiss evaluator;
    ·   It was signed the Cooperation Accord with Swiss Development Corporation, regarding the technical
        assistance and training for emergency health care ­ Project Remmsy III (500,000 USD);
    ·   there were procured equipments for the training centers, in value of 443,103.25 USD and office
        equipment in value of 95,259.8 USD;

The main objectives of the component have been achieved. All the equipment is delivered and fully used.
There is a range of options at the country level for organizing the interventions in emergencies; the training
modules are developed at the country level with Swiss support for doctors, nurses, firefighters.

Component 5 ­ Public Health and Disease Control
Funds available: 2.74 millions USD World Bank
                  9.37 millions USD Romanian Government
Objectives:
    ·   Capacity development for public health efficient infrastructure development;
    ·   Unhealthy lifestyle and communicable and non-communicable morbidity and mortality decrease by
        media campaign on priority areas.
    ·   Support for the TB and STD network infrastructure.


                                                     - 33 -

Main activities carried on between January 2001 and June 2004:
   ·   Development of the National Strategy of Public Health in value of 24,650 USD;
   ·   Terms of reference were elaborated for technical assistance and training in media campaigns and
       education for tobacco use fight, HIV/SIDA, training for health promotion, TB fight and DOTS
       implementation were elaborated and send to the World Bank.
   ·   The activities funded by the government in the national health programs regarding prevention and
       education in priority areas: TB, STD, HIV/SIDA and tobacco consumption fight were carried out.
   ·   Procurement and installation of laboratory equipment for TB diagnostics, laboratory equipment for
       STI(syphilis), National Reference Centers and autolaboratory for epidemiological emergencies; the
       total value was 2,593,125.04 USD (see appendix);
   ·   Procurement and installation of office and audio-video equipment in value of 38,500 USD at the
       Mental Health Pilot Center from Clinic Hospital Obregia;
   ·   2 training courses for the Pilot Center personnel were organized; for these courses there were hired
       one individual consultant (a contract in value of 11,056 USD) and a consultancy firm (a contract in
       value of 49,945 USD).
   ·   Training courses in Spain and USA for 15 health promotion specialists;
   ·   Procurement of 2 types of analyzers and other consumables in value of 10,203 USD for 3 tobacco
       use fight and concealing centers.
   ·   Execution of health promoting and health education programs: course for tobacco quitting (2,347
       USD), World Health Day organizing ­ 07.04.2003 (2,423 USD), informing and education
       campaign ­ "World <No Smoke> Day" ­ 31.05.2003 (6,769 USD).

The main objectives of the component have been achieved.

Component 6 ­ Project Management
Funds available: 0.17 millions USD World Bank
                  0.05 millions USD Romanian Government
   ·    5 vehicles were procured for the monitoring and control activity (71,500 USD);
   ·    Procurement of office equipment (21,000 USD);
   ·    Technical assistance , audit and training (77,900 USD).

Management and Procurement Carried on by the Project Management Unit
Main activities:
       1. The Project implementation organization, designation of responsibilities, nomination of
            coordinators and the staff in charge through order of the minister;
       2. Project monitoring at central level and all the project sites for all activities: TA preparation and
            reports, training organization, equipment reception preparation (persons in charge designation,
            training organization, physical rehabilitation);
       3. Evaluation of the results based on indicators agreed with the Bank;
       4. Support the evaluation missions of the WB experts and recommendations elaboration for the
            persons in charge with implementation.
       5. Tenders preparation, organization and evaluation, contracts elaboration, negotiation and closure
            for medical equipment for:
            ·     County and emergency hospitals: operating rooms and intensive care;
            ·     Medical ambulances type B and C;
            ·     Equipment extrication;
            ·     Medical tents for intervention in case of disasters;
            ·     Specialty outpatient clinics in underprivileged areas;

                                                     - 34 -

        ·     Dispensaries in underprivileged areas
        ·     Endoscopic equipment
        ·     Other types of medical equipment and IT equipment.
    6. Establishment of the terms of reference for all the consultancies in the project.
    7. Participation of he PMU members in trainings recommended by WB: financial management and
        project monitoring.
    8. Management reports preparation requested by WB and Public Finance Ministry.
    9. Elaboration of the quarterly check balances for the project;
    10. Payments in the contracts.
    11. Elaboration of proposals and participation in the main measures for reforming the system
        (privatization, DRG, other heath programs)

II. Cooperation with International Organizations

DFID (United Kingdom Department for International Development)
A 1 million USD financing agreement by the United Kingdom Government for a program for: medical
services planning improvement, primary and community care. There were completed: a training program
with MoH planning strategic unit, the technical assistance for involving the communities from Braila
and Calarasi in the improvement of socio-medical assistance and it was elaborated the family medicine
practice guides and proposals for local initiatives. The main partner of the DFID project for discussion,
consultation and communication was the PMU. The PMU was furnishing a part of staff for strategic
unit, persuading the minister to make available staff from other departments of the MOH for the training
modules and made the efforts to maintain the virtual strategic team functioning.

Swiss Development Corporation (SDC)
The technical assistance and training for emergency medical care program was rolled out funded by the
Swiss govern (about 500,000 USD)

An agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Swiss govern through SDC regarding the
implementation of the extension program of the emergency health system (Remmsy III); there is
undergoing the technical assistance and training for emergency health care (for 1200 specialists)
program. The PMU was the partner for discussions of the SDC in establishing the TORs for the
consultancy and training needs together with the Emergency Committee of the MOH. The cooperation of
the two programs was very good. Through the World Bank program the PMU make available the
equipment for training.

Open Society Foundation (FSD)
The activities for primary care were done and the training centers were funded in 2001-2002.The
Centers have been transferred to the Post-graduate Training Center of the MOH.

Monitoring Indicators:
The PMU has submitted annually to the Bank the Program indicators and the development objective
Indicators as agreed in the Minutes of Negotiations.

Outcome/Outputs of the Program:
By the end of the project the majority of the outcome indicators and output indicators by components are
achieved.

Outcome indicators achieved or partially achieved: Legal and institutional frame work for public and

                                                 - 35 -

Outcome indicators achieved or partially achieved: Legal and institutional frame work for public and
private health providers improved, 42 judets health services plans and national plan approved,

Increased survival rates and proportion of patients receiving qualified care before admission for
emergency cases, increased patients compliance with DOTS in 54,3% judets, increased awareness for
HIV/AIDS in communities, reduced hospital ALOS for mental health patients in pilot areas.

Outputs indicators by components:
The majority of indicators are fully achieved as presented by the PMU in the M&E reports sent annually
to the Bank:

Component 1: Rationalization strategy for hospital services, health services plans developed for 42
districts and 7 regional development plans, national development plan for health services, road map for
health, National strategy for health services; 2-4 staff from each DPHA and HIH trained in planning;
8-10 staff trained in the MOH in planning (135 staff in total);

Component 2: 19 district hospitals and 8 emergency hospitals in Bucharest equipped for ICU and
operating rooms (35 operating rooms and 27 ICU modules delivered); all qualified staff trained at the
project sites;

Component 3: 47 medical offices basic equipped, 2-4 ambulatory care units/ pilot districts equipped
and offering their services to the local population; country level training in family practice (3265 doctors
in 2002 and 1062 in 2003) graduated specialized training initiated by the MOH; 2 guidelines of
treatment issued by Nicare project and used in pilot districts.

Component 4: 33 extrication teams, integrated emergency response teams in few districts, all the
equipment fully operational and used, specialized training for 561 nurses, 341 doctors from UR of
district hospitals and ambulance services, firefighters(including creation of integrated teams under
development with Swiss support (Remssy 3) and government contribution; increased % of major
emergencies receiving qualified assistance from 47,47% in 2002 to 69,85% in 2003.

Component 5: Public health strategy issued in June 2004, consumption of tobacco control campaign,
training abroad of 15 epidemiologists in health promotion; increasing compliance of patients in DOTS to
54,4% of TB services areas; bacteriological capacity updated; legislation limiting the advertising,
smoking in public places, taxes increased; 3 smoking cessation centers opened and functional; with
MOH budget funds HIV/AIDS and STI campaign addressing the risk groups and general population;
training of 12 staff in mental health services to facilitate the social inclusions of mental health patient; 1
pilot center for rehabilitation of mental health patients.

Trigger indicators for moving to phase II of the program have been achieved in time and appropriate
manner: (legal and regulatory framework for care providers updated and improved has been sent to the
Bank, public health strategy issued, government decision for concession of medical offices approved and
functional, completion of district plans, disbursement at least 80% from APLI).

By June 30, 2004 almost all the funds of the loan have been used (39,916) which means a spending rate
close to 100% of the loan.

Reallocation of funds
After all the initial approved procurements have been completed a sum of 4,5 mil USD has been
re-allocated to new programs, within the same project objectives (especially extending emergency

                                                  - 36 -

re-allocated to new programs, within the same project objectives (especially extending emergency
equipment, specialized equipment for caring burned patients, allocating for other essential hospital
services ­ endoscopic equipment and others.

III. Other PMU activities connected with the World Bank program

Privatization ­ IFC Contract

Objective: to elaborate the privatization strategy and to start some privatization projects

Main achievements between January 2001 and June 2003:

·   The international Financial Corporation contacting and cooperation for the privatization report
    elaboration;
·   The Private Sector Participation Strategy to heath care sector performance was elaborated and
    approved by Govern Decision 717/2001
·   The law changes are prepared with privatization aim.
·   with the support of IFC the implementation plan of the private sector participation in the health
    care system started in 2003:
        1. Health care units evaluation and specialists recommendations for application of different
            privatization models according to the approved strategy;
        2. Tender documents elaboration and tender organization;
        3. Contracting with private providers;
        4. The     Bucharest   hospitals    evaluation   report   regarding    public-private partnership
            opportunities was prepared;
        5. Tenders were organized for laboratory services and imagistic outsourcing (model applied as
            an experiment in Colentina Hospital);
        6. A private wing was established in a public hospital (Polizu) using a selection of offers
            procedure.

IV. GFATM Projects

Starting with 2002 the PMU has been involved in the preparation of Romanian application (project
management component) to the GFATM for HIV and TB program. Science 2003 the PMU has been
selected and appointed to manage the projects implementation. The PMU has been reorganized and
expended to deal with the new responsibilities.

The HIV project has a total value of 21,8 mil USD for 2003-2005 and ensures the implementation of
essential prevention interventions to reduce HIV/AIDS transmission, strengthen the health care and
psychological support for people affected/infected and vulnerable groups and improve the surveillance
and monitoring system at the country level. The MOH-PMU contracted for implementation 30 partners
(governmental and NGOs) resulting 60 projects developed at country level.

The TB project has a total value of 16, 8 mil USD (2003-2005) and will enable Romania to reduce
mortality, morbidity and disease transmission, while preventing the drug resistance. The goal is to
achieve the WHO recommended TB control targets ­ to cure 85% of newly detected cases TB positive,
to detect 70% of the estimated incidence and expending DOTs coverage to 100%. The implementation is
made mainly through National Institute of TB and some NGOs.



                                                 - 37 -

The PMU created in the actual formula in the beginning of the APL I, has accumulated important
experience during the implementation of all the projects. The actual team has successfully deal with all
the tasks. The Unit represented the main link between the Bank and the Ministry of Health and also
assured the implementation without gaps during all the frequent political changes of the Ministry of
Heath. The staff was very dedicated to the program goals and proved real professional skills. There
were frequent situations when, in order to start or speed up the implementation, the PMU had to do
preparation and implementation work ( ex: component planning and regulation) and many times to lobby
for the project and its objectives in front of the new MOH leaders. The PMU successfully perform all
these roles.

V. APL II preparation

In 2003-2004, PMU has been asked to manage the PHRD grant for APL II preparation, to make
available to the Bank all the studies and documentation for the new project preparation and to prepare
all the necessary documentation. The EBI expressed its interest for co-financing the new project and
PMU closely co-operated with EIB.

VI. Lessons learned

Very good preparation of the project was reflected in timely implementation; still an extension was
needed, especially for the planning component, which needed a longer time for getting started; the MOH
departments responsible for implementation were initially not very interested in developing the TORs
and implementing the project; however, after the PMU concluded the consultancy contract, the
leadership of the MOH strongly supported the project implementation. The continuation of the planning
component results is depending on the MOH leadership decisions in requesting at central and district
level application of planning exercises.

Some of the project components (essential hospital services for operation rooms and ICU) have been
extended by the MOH using commercial credits. The procedures started in the same time, but they have
been implemented with different speeds. A comparison of results is showing a much better achieving of
the objectives (delivery, installation and training) by the World Bank financed program. One important
reason is the utilization of the standard World Bank procurement contract, which assure a timely and
safe procedure and control for the beneficiaries. Lack of continuation of specialized staff at the level of
the department in charge was another reason for delay.

Utilization of the savings has been designated initially for building two integrated dispatch sysems which
could not be achieved due to the lack of political and technical commitment of all the parties involved.
This experience should be kept in mind and avoided for the future financing of the dispatch system.

The project was not too complex and permitted a smooth implementation.

The PMU trained in the previous and present World Bank program has been involved in many
connected projects which reflected in better coordination integration and quality of the MOH actions.
The PMU extended its number of staff and qualifications. At the same time the PMU staff became more
skilled and professional being able to deal with multiple projects financed by different internationals.
The MOH gained from the point of view of organization and management and quality of interventions.

Financial incentive for the staff is critically important. The improvement is obvious since PMU salaries
are financed by GFATM. The staff is very committed, stable and highly qualified.

                                                   - 38 -

The cooperation with the World Bank

The PMU and MOH had an excellent cooperation with the Bank's team.                  They are excellent
professionals, very well connected to the Romanian health needs and reality and very committed to
support, to facilitate the project implementation and to find flexible ways to solve different issues.
There is also built an interpersonal very good communication and relationships between the PMU staff
and Bank's staff reflected also in the good results.

It is already a tradition for the MOH and PMU to look for Bank's specialist guide and agreement in the
most important measures and actions, as an appreciation of the value of their value.

The PMU is highly appreciating the way the Bank's team has cooperated and worked in this project and
specially thanks for the permanent support and encouraging of the PMU for involvement in other
projects.




                                                - 39 -

- 40 -

