Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20171 RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR
A HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
May 26, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Romania and Bulgaria Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 24, 2000)
Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
I Leu= US$ .0000487
US$ I = Lei 20,540
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AHIC       Australian Health Insurance Commission
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
BOD        Burden of disease
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDF        Comprehensive Development Framework
CEE        Central and Eastern Europe
CINDI      Countrywide Integrated Non-Communicable Disease Prevention Program
CME        Continuing medical education
DALY       Disability adjusted life year
DFID       Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DPHA       District Public Health Authority
DRG        Diagnostic Related Group
ECA        Europe and Central Asia
EU         European Union
FMS        Financial Management System
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOR        Government of Romania
HIH        Health Insurance House
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICD        International Classification of Diseases
ILI        Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
IHSM       Institute for Health Services Management
(Institutul de Management al Serviciilor de Sanatate)
IOMC       Institutul de Ocrotire a Mamei si Copiluli
(Institute for the Protection of Mother and Child)
IPH        Institute of Public Health
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOH        Ministry of Health
NHIH       National Health Insurance House
NAAQI    National Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:    Annette Dixon
Program Team Leader:    Loraine Hawkins



OECD       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PHRD       Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese Grant)
PMU        Project Management Unit
PHC        Primary Health Care
SANITAS Romanian Union of Health Workers
SME        Small and medium sized enterprises
STD        Sexually Transmitted Disease
TB         Tuberculosis
TOR        Terms of Reference
UNAIDS   Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDs
UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WDR        World Development Report
WHO        World Health Organization






ROMANIA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  3
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                             3
2. Project development objective                                                    4
3. Key performance indicators                                                       4
B. Strategic Context                                                                  4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  4
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              10
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans               12
C. Program and Project Description Summary                                           13
1. Program summary and project components                                         13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   16
3. Benefits and target population                                                  17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   17
D. Project Rationale                                                                  18
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                        18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     22
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                          23
1. Economic                                                                        23
2. Fiscal                                                                          24
3. Technical                                                                       24
4. Institutional                                                                   25
5. Social                                                                          26
6. Environmental assessment                                                        27
7. Participatory approach                                                          27
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                          29
1. Sustainability                                                                  29
2. Critical risks                                                                  29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  30



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                               30
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          30
2. Other                                                                            31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       32
Annex 2: Project Description                                                          38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      47
Annex 4: Summary Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analyses                         50
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                74
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               76
Annex 1 0: Country at a Glance                                                        78
Annex 1 1: Financial Management                                                       80
Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan                                               83
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Strategy and Reform Program                    89
Annex 14: Social Assessment                                                          103
MAP# IBRD 28758



ROMANIA
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: June 2. 2000                                  Team Leader: Loraine Hawkins
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink                 Sector Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P008797                                 Sector(s): HB - Basic Health
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data:             .__ -
Estimated
APL               Indicative Financing Plan           Implementation Period            Borrower
._____                    -{(Bank FY)
IBRD             Others       Total     Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %       US$ m       US$ m         Date         Date
APL 1        40.00    57.2    29.84        69.84      09/01/2000   09/01/2003           Romania
Loan/
Credit I_                            _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2        20.00    47.4    22.16        42.16      09/01/2002   09/01/2005           Romania
Loan/
Total        60.00    53.6    52.00       112.00
Project Financing Data:
Z  Loan               E  Credit                  [E  Guarantee              [] Other (Specify
(US$ million)                                              Total             Loan         Share of IBRD
Cost            Amount          Financing
Phase 1: (Months 1-36)
1. Planning & Regulation of Healthcare Delivery System        1.92             1.17            61.1%
2. District Hospitals: Essential Upgrade & Integration      25.81             18.33            71.0%
3. Primary Care Development                                   8.04             5.10            63.4%
4. Emergency Medical Services                               22.73             12.90            56.8%
5. Public Health and Disease Control                        10.38              2.20            21.4%
6. Project Coordination and Management                       0.96              0.30           30.93%
GRAND TOTAL                                                 69.84              40.0            57.2%
Two of the six components of the Project are poverty targeted, accounting for an estimated 26 percent of total Project costs.



For LoansJCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 40.0
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL) in USD.
Grace period (years): 5                                  Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:     Source                                  Local        Foreign         Total
Government                                                   24.87           2.72          27.59
IBRD                                                          2.86          37.14          40.00
BILATERAL DONORS                                              0.86           0.54           1.40
SOROS FOUNDATION                                              0.44           0.26           0.70
UNIVERSITIES                                                  0.15                          0.15
Total:                                                       29.18          40.66          69.84
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: Str. Ministerului Nr.1-3, 70109 Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Dr Carmen Angheluta, Director, WB Project Management Unit
Tel: +40 1 314 1526     .         Fax: +40 1 312 4916              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M)
FY             2001      2002        2003        2004                    Total
Annual      9.34        17.05        10.66     2.95                      40.0
Cumulative      9.34        26.39        37.05    40.00                      40.0
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2000  Expected closing date:  09/01/2003
OCS"LAPLOFm Oc.WS 1M2
2



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Health Sector Reform Project supports the Government of Romania (GOR) to implement key
elements of a wider long-term health sector development strategy and reform program (set out in
Annex 13 in the Letter of Sector Development Strategy and Reform Program approved by the
Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance, transmitted to the Bank on July 15, 1999), also
supported by other international agencies and donors.
The strategic purpose of the Ministry of Health's (MOH) reform program is a healthy Romania,
with lower morbidity and fewer premature deaths, equitable access to health services and
improved efficiency of the health system. The program seeks to: a) improve efficiency and
equity in the planning and regulation of the health service delivery system; b) reduce preventable
deaths among emergency medical cases; c) improve access and quality in primary health care in
poor and remote areas; and d) help the Romanian health sector to better focus on priority public
health problems, thereby reducing preventable illness and deaths.
The MOH's development strategy covers interventions to address problems discussed in Part B of
this document in the following four areas: (i) organization and management of the health system;
(ii) financing of the health system; (iii) rationalization and upgrading of physical and human
resources; and (iv) the health of the population. The Health Sector Reform Project primarily
focuses on implementation of reform plans for the next five years in the third and fourth of these
areas. Parallel reforms in the first two areas have already commenced, with the support
principally of the EU/PHARE program.
The Project will strengthen capacity for planning and policy development in the fields of public
health, and health service infrastructure and human resources. It will invest in physical assets and
staff training for selected primary health care, hospital and emergency medical services based on
identification of higher priorities. The Project will support pilot initiatives to improve efficiency
through reorganization of services to better coordinate primary health care (PHC) and secondary
health care, and improve health status through greater investment in priority public health
programs.
Phase I of the Project will commence investment and training in 24 hospitals, and support
development of plans in at least 75 percent of judets (administrative districts in Romania).
Trigger indicators for Phase II of the Project focus on: satisfactory legal and regulatory
frameworks for investment in publicly financed healthcare providers; and completion of rational
plans for future investment in physical and human resources. Phase 11 of the Project will extend
the program of investment, training and service improvement to further judets. It will extend
public health investment to additional priority areas.
An Adaptable Program Loan (APL) is regarded as the appropriate instrument to use because the
GOR's development strategy calls for phased implementation over an extended time period, and
because an APL provides the flexibility to adapt the second phase of implementation in the light
of evaluation of pilot initiatives planned for Phase I, and emerging developments in sector policy,
planning and legislation.
3



2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
In Phase 1, the Project would support activities directed at achieving the following objectives:
a) improving the capacity for policy, planning, regulation, finance and management in the health
sector;
b) improving quality, cost-effectiveness and technical efficiency of PHC in selected poor and
remote areas, essential hospital and ambulatory health care services and emergency medical
services; and
c) modernization of public health services in the areas of tobacco control, tuberculosis
prevention, AIDS/IHIV prevention, STD prevention and community-based mental health care.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The indicators below will be used to measure the achievement of program purpose. Progress
towards these indicators will be monitored during the implementation of both phases of the
program, but it should be noted that initial monitoring of some indicators will take place in
selected judets while development of monitoring systems takes place in others.
* Total expenditure on public health interventions and programs from all sources, relative to
the level in year 2000, monitored for the duration of the program.
* Decreased incidence of TB and STDs.
* Reduction in death rate from injury per traffic accident and increase in survival rates from
heart attacks by 2005.
* Proportion of hospital admissions and outpatient attendance referred by GPs increased by
2005.
* Selected proxy indicators for health behavior improved by 2005 (approximately 5 percent
reduction in tobacco smoking by 2005, reduction in proportion of calorie intake from
saturated fat, improvement in survey measure of safe sex among high risk groups).
Trigger indicators for Phase 1I measure progress during Phase I towards policy objectives, with a
particular focus on ensuring that pre-conditions for effective investment in Phase 11 are in place
by the end of Phase 1. These pre-conditions include: satisfactory legal and regulatory frameworks
for governance of and investment in publicly financed healthcare providers; and completion of
rational, prioritized plans for future investment in physical and human resources. They will be
assessed as part of monitoring and evaluation arrangements for Phase I of the Project in March
2002. Trigger indicators are described in Section B.4 below.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: 1 6559-RO                Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/03/97
The Project would support the achievement of the following CAS objectives: (a) development of
a sustainable health finance and management system; (b) improvement of the health status of the
population; and (c) increased ownership of health sector reform by stakeholders in the society.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
This section describes the broad strategic context in which the Project will take place, although
the Project itself targets a relatively limited set of the problems discussed. The Government's
overall program, supported by other donors as well, seeks to tackle the array of issues discussed
4



here. Further detail is available in the document entitled "Romania: Health Sector Support
Strategy", World Bank Report Number 1841 0-RO, 1999.
A. Main sector issues
The main sector issues are:
(i) weaknesses in governance of the system and the legislative framework;
(ii) technical and institutional shortcomings in the efficiency and transparency of sector
financing, combined with a need for further progress towards the goal of equity in health
finance;
(iii) structural and functional inefficiency in the organization of physical capacity and human
resources in the health care delivery system, overlaid on critical inadequacies in infrastructure
in many areas through years of lack of maintenance and investment, exacerbated by ad-hoc
processes of making new investment decisions;
(iv) mismatch between the health needs of the population and the distribution and priorities of
health services; and
(v) consumer dissatisfaction with the health services. These are examined in the following
paragraphs.
(i) Governance and Legislation
When the Health Insurance Law of 1997 became fully effective in April 1999, the role of the
MOH changed from that of hierarchical oversight of a vertical system, to that of lead agency for
policy, legislation, regulation, monitoring, and evaluation in a decentralized health system. The
Ministry is not fully prepared to carry out these functions effectively. That same law shifted
responsibility for revenue collection (formerly the task of the fiscal authorities) and provider
payment (formerly the task of the MOH) to a social health insurance system, comprising the
National Health Insurance House (NHIH) and 41 district health insurance houses. The new
health insurance system is charged with complex organizational and management responsibilities,
with limited capacity.
The MOH is seeking support for plans to develop institutional capacity. A project financed by
EU/PHARE is supporting this development in the MOH, at both national level and district level.
(ii) Health Sector Finance
Revenue sources and levels. Romania spends a lower share of GDP on health than other
countries of comparable income. As of 1997, public expenditure on health was some 3.12
percent of GDP. Private out-of-pocket expenditure on health accounted for a little over 30
percent of total health expenditure (1996 data). While some out-of-pocket payment is part of a
formal system of user co-payments, the legacy of the past continues to perpetuate the practice of
illegal - and regressive - payments, reinforcing inequity of access to even the most basic services.
From 1998, revenues for public health sector financing were derived from two sources: health
insurance fund contributions from the payroll, which represents about 70 percent of financing,
and the state budget, which makes up the remainder. The MOH continues to take responsibility
for a number of national health programs, includilg priority disease prevention programs, which
are financed from the State budget.
In 1999, the health insurance contribution rate was increased from 10 percent to 14 percent of
payroll. This is projected to have increased HIH revenue for the year by 20-25 percent in real
terms, even with compliance of 85 percent or less. No plans were made for managing the sudden
5



increase in public sector health revenues. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) has been reluctant to
authorize the HIH to increase its expenditure in keeping with the increase in revenue, with the
result that the HIH now has a surplus, though the need for well-managed additional expenditure
in the health system is plainly visible.
Equity and resource allocation. The 1997 Health Insurance Law foresaw a redistribution of 7
percent of health insurance revenues among districts in the interests of equity and risk-pooling, to
avoid potential regional imbalances in coverage. Under this provision, per capita revenues for
health care would have ranged from 85 percent in the poorest district to 125 percent of the
national average in the richest (Bucharest is an outlier at 167 percent of the national average). To
narrow this range so that all districts receive at least 95 percent of the national average, about 22
percent of revenues would need to be reallocated. In October 1998, the Government of Romania
adopted Ordinance 30/1998, which amended the law to provide for a redistribution of up to 25
percent. Under the Law, the provisions for redistribution apply not only to the 41 district/city-
based HIHs, but also to separate sectoral health insurance funds for the transport sector, Ministry
of Interior and army, but implementation of this provision is likely to be difficult for separate
funds which have been relatively better resourced historically.
Although arrangements for redistribution already operate, there is a need to improve the
redistribution system by improving on the data which underpin it, developing a stronger
technical basis for the redistribution formula and making the process and methodology more
transparent. An important technical prerequisite is better data on patient flows between districts.
Contracting and Paying Providers.. There is great need in Romania to introduce proper
incentives to ensure appropriate use of funds and improve the efficiency of the health system.
Incentives to improve performance at the service delivery level and expand the role of the private
sector are critical. Improved efficiency will also require incentives that grant greater autonomy to
districts and health care facilities and allow them to take on greater financial risk. Incentives for
increasing responsiveness to patient needs also need to be improved. Development of
performance payment and contracting mechanisms would have much greater chances of success
if major new designs were piloted before being implemented nationwide. To date, the HIHs have
begun implementing capitation-based payment for PHC services under a national framework
contract, as a first step in a program of reform to provider payment arrangements. HIHs have
also developed a form of contract for hospitals based on a prospective global budget. These
methods of payment need further refinement, and systems for monitoring provider performance
and auditing provider claims for payment also need to be developed. As well, there are some
areas of expenditure where open-ended fee-for-service reimbursement is in operation, or is
proposed. Control systems for this type of provider payment do not exist, and are in any event
unlikely to achieve adequate control over aggregate expenditure.
6



Financing and Budgeting of Capital Investment. Under the 1997 Health Insurance Law,
investment in civil works and major medical equipment for the public sector provider network is
the responsibility of the MOH, while minor investment, maintenance and repairs are intended to
be financed by the NHIH. In practice, this boundary is not clear. Processes of capital budgeting
in the public health sector are not systematic. The tendency for fragmented, ad-hoc approaches to
investment is exacerbated by a multiplicity of financing sources (donor funds, government
guarantees), parallel networks of health care provision (serving those insured by the army,
transport sector and Ministry of Interior), and weak governance of public sector provider
organizations. In aggregate, there has been chronic under-investment in the public health system
and inadequate expenditure on repairs and maintenance. But there are examples of excess
capacity, wasted investment and cost-ineffective investment in leading edge technology,
alongside this general pattern of critically run-down capacity.
Table A. Public health care spending in Romania, 1990-97
(billions of lei, except as otherwise indicated)
Item                     1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Expenditures
State budget               24      62     153      365     998   1,347   2,007
Local budgets               0       0       0      101     263      393     586
Special health fund         0       0      32      126     283     414      515
Total                      24      62     185      592   1,544   2,154   3,108   7,184
Average exchange rate      22      76     308      760   1,655   2,062   3,132   7,172
(Leu/US$)
Total (millions of      1,090    816      601      779     933   1,045      992   1,002
dollars)
Expenditures as
percentage of GDP
State budget              2.7    2.8       2.5     1.8      2.0     2.0      1.9
Local budgets             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.5      0.5     0.6      0.5
Special health fund       0.0     0.0      0.5     0.6      0.6     0.6      0.5
Total                     2.7    2.8       3.1     3.0      3.1     3.2      2.9     2.9
Note: Data for 1995-97 include external funds.
Source: Data for 1990-95 are from Statistical Yearbooks of Romania, published by the
National Commission for Statistics, Bucharest. Data for 1996 and 1997 are from AHIC 1998.
(iii) Physical and Human Resources
Constraints on efficient, effective health services. Much of Romania's health sector
infrastructure is obsolete, poorly maintained, or unsuitable for providing acceptable quality health
services. Inpatient care and specialized services are overemphasized, with too few resources
allocated to outpatient, nursing home, and home care. Not only is the physical infrastructure and
equipment for PHC inadequate, professional skills for staff working in these settings are in need
of further upgrading if more patient care is to be managed effectively at this level. Management
of services and resource allocation for decades has been overly centralized and unresponsive to
local initiatives and needs. Recent reforms have given districts and healthcare institutions greater
autonomy, but modern management skills to meet consequent increased responsibilities are
scarce. Because of the lack of integrated systems and managerial tools critical to ensuring a
continuum of care, services are fragmented across many different types of providers.
7



Private Sector Development. Until very recently, there has been little, if any, involvement of
legitimate private sector providers, with the exception of the rapid emergence of private dentistry
and private retail pharmacy, and some development of private medical practice. In recent years,
the expansion of private, for-profit health care providers has been fargely unregulated. The de
facto result is a two-tiered system in which wealthier household& choose to bypass the public
system altogether, seeking care from private providers (legal) or making informal payments to
public providers (illegal). During 1999, a form of privatization of public-funded family physician
practice took place. These doctors now receive capitation-based payments for providing care to
social insurees under contracts which are intended to cover practice costs, including remuneration
to staff and the doctor himself/herself. For the next five years, these practices have rent-free use
of the public dispensaries and clinics in which they work, including equipment, although
ownership after that time has not yet been clarified. The Government expects that in the future,
investment in these practices will be the responsibility of the doctor(s) who own the practice. At
present, banks in Romania are generally reluctant to lend to small and medium sized enterprises
(SMEs), and privatized medical practices have limited access to loan finance, although around 40
percent of doctors are willing to borrow for practice development, mostly in the range of
US$5,000-10,000, and higher sums on average in Bucharest.
(iv) The Health of the Population and Health Services
Mismatclk between needs and services. As in many former socialist economies, health care
services in Romania poorly target the major health problems of the population. A large
proportion of premature sickness and death in Romania is attributable to lifestyles, particularly
tobacco consumption, accidents and injuries, alcohol abuse, and poor dietary habits. Many of
these problems can be dealt with inexpensively by controlling risk factors, or by early
intervention in primary health care. Scant attention is given to prevention in Romania, however.
Instead, the system remains heavily medicalized and centered on inpatient, curative interventions
- a legacy of the former system. Little attention is paid to ambulatory care delivered by health
professionals other than specialist doctors. Interventions in primary care, prevention, and health
promotion are weak. Resources for primary health care and ambulatory care are poorly
distributed. Therapeutic guidelines or protocols for hospital or ambulatory care started to be
developed only in 1998, have been published only for a very limited number of conditions and
no effective mechanism for their implementation exists. No national drug formulary has been
developed for use in hospitals.
Table B. Ten Most Common Causes of
Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY) Loss in Romania
(1996)
Cause of                     DALY Loss                         % of All
DALYLoss                                            of           DAILYs
- -_________________________________        __________       _ X--- T op     10
Ischemic Heart Disease                         998,137           25.1              15.6
Cerebrovascular Disease                        858,810           21.6               13.5
Alcohol-Related Mental Disorders               654,253            16.5             10.3
Cirrhosis, Chronic Hepatitis                   278,028             7.0              4.4
Nervous and Musculo-Skeletal Disorders         222,175             5.6               3.5
Acute Respiratory Infections                   218,027             5.5               3.4
Hypertensive Disease                           195,486             4.9              3.1
Chronic Cor Pulmonale                          191,926             4.8              3.0
Other Vascular Disease                         189,466             4.8               3.0
8



Cause of                     DALY Loss           _            % of All
DALY Loss                                           of          DALYs
Top 10
Atherosclerosis                                168,016           4.2               2.6
SUBTOTAL                                     3,973,687          100.0             62.4
Other Causes                                 2,399,422                            37.6
TOTAL OF ALL CAUSES ANALYZED                 6,373,109      J                    100.0
Source: MOH 1996 mortality data, and calculations by the Burden Of Disease Work Group. (For a more
detailed account of epidemiological profile, service utilization and cost-effectiveness of proposed activities
under this project, please see Annex 4)
(v) Consumer dissatisfaction with services
Given the lack of systematic information about public awareness of planned reforms and public
opinion of health services, quarterly tracking polls have been conducted during Project
preparation, beginning with a baseline survey in May 1998.
The baseline survey identified shortages of drugs, supplies and equipment as the most frequent
complaint about services, followed by complaints about crowding and chaos in health care
facilities. Complaints about these two areas were reduced significantly (experience of shortages
down from 55 percent to 43 percent, experience of crowding down from 39 percent to 31
percent). Overall satisfaction with Romanian health care has been rising significantly over the
period of surveys, with the proportion very satisfied with their most recent experience of medical
care reaching 43 percent in the most recent poll. This was an increase of 4 points on November
1998 and up some 13 points since March 1998. It remains true that more private sector users are
very satisfied (57 percent) than public sector users (40 percent)..
While the beginnings of reform and the injection of resources may have produced some
improvements in conditions in health care institutions, sharp differences persist between the
public and private sectors, with public sector patients still frequently facing shortages and
crowding. In terms of both public information programs and health care reform, much remains to
be done.
B. Government Strategy
An emerging consensus. In 1996, the Government committed itself to a program of economic
reform through The Basic Program For Romania Macro Stabilization and Development Until
The Year 2000. Working groups of Romanian professionals have been active since June 1997 and
prepared preliminary reports on the main elements of sector reform: governance; financing; asset
rationalization; universal package of services for the insured; and sector management. A PHRD
Grant from the Government of Japan (TF027124) enabled more intensive work and resulted in
the production of detailed analyses, work plans and discussion papers. The consultations
included various groups of stakeholders, professionals, trade unions, members of Parliament and
individuals of repute (Annex 8 shows a list of documents in the Project File related to strategy).
The Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF), started by Romania in May 1999 with
World Bank support, has reinforced stakeholder participation in discussion of long term sector
priorities. One of the first findings of the CDF in-country consultations is the high priority
attached by all stakeholders to improvements of basic services in health, education and child
welfare.
9



An agreed strategy. Over the past nine months, the MOH and other agencies in the health sector
in Romania have brought together the work of the past three years in a formal statement of a new
strategy for the health sector and a program for health sector reform. The draft strategy has been
agreed by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance, and transmitted to the Bank in a
Letter of Sector Development Strategy (see Letter dated July 15, 1999, and attached strategy and
draft implementation plan, Annex 13). The broad principles of the strategy have been included
in the Sustainable Development Strategy endorsed by the GOR in July, 1999. One of the
outcomes of the ongoing CDF process will be the development of detailed sector specific action
plans for this strategy.
The goals of the GOR's health sector reforms are to restructure health services in line with health
problems, to promote equity according to the principles of the Government and the WHO, and to
ensure sustainable financing for health services. The major elements of the draft implementation
plan include action in the four areas listed below, and supported by this Project and other donor
agencies, as follows:
(i) Governance, Legislation and Management of the Health System: This aspect of the
MOH's sector reform program will be supported principally by EU/PHARE and WHO in the next
two years, although GOR seeks the Bank's support in this Project to develop the Public Health
functions of the MOH, and to develop policy and legislation related to addressing problems of ad-
hoc approaches to investment and supporting rationalization of physical and human resources.
(ii) Health Sector Finance: The GOR has already reached the first stage of the transition to a
decentralized system financed by social health insurance. This aspect of the reform program will
be supported principally by EU/PHARE in the next two years. This Project will assist by
supporting development of financing policies which are related to successful implementation of
sub-components of the Project, including development of the role of primary health care, and
development of more coherent planning and financing arrangements for investments in the
publicly financed health system, adapted to emerging changes in provider ownership and sources
of investment finance.
(iii) Rationalization and Upgrading of Physical and Human Resources: Implementation of
this arm of the Government's strategy will require major investment, phased over a period of 10
years or more, and the GOR seeks substantial support from the Bank for it. The Health Sector
Reform Project will support rational planning and development of appropriate incentives, to
promote rationalization and modernization of service delivery, and a prioritized approach to the
phasing of the necessary investment, based on strengthened capital budgeting. It will also finance
highest priority investments. In addition, in partnership with DFID, Soros Foundation and
university medical faculties in Romania, the Project will tackle the identified priorities for
development of human resources.
(iv) The Health of the Population and the Health Services. Romania has, since transition,
introduced a family physician model of primary health care, although the role of primary health
care has not yet expanded to an optimal level. The Project will support development of PHC,
with a focus on development of services to reach poorly-served remote areas in Phase I pilot
judets, trials of better integrated models of service delivery, and phased implementation of
integrated emergency medical services. In addition, the Project will support priority prevention
programs from the priority areas identified by the MOH.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The preparation phase of this Project has invested in technical studies, advice, and coalition
building across all four of the major areas of the GOR's health sector development strategy, and
10



supported surveys of consumer opinion and awareness of reform issues. For a number of
reasons, the focus of the Project has now been narrowed in scope somewhat to foctrs over the next
five years principally on supporting the GOR's strategy in areas (iii) Rationalization and
Upgrading of Physical and Human Resources; and (iv) Health of the Population, discussed
above in sections B.2.A and B.2.B.
Rationalization and Upgrading of Physical and Human resources. The Project will support
planning for rationalization of physical and human resources, and investment in the high priority
areas of primary health care, ambulatory diagnostic services to support PHC, essential secondary
care and emergency medical services, based on these plans. It will support pilot initiatives in
more efficient organization of services and training in family medicine. Phase I of the Project
will commence investment and training for management of emergency cases in 24 hospitals,
more intensive investment in PHC and diagnostic services in six pilot judets, and will support
development of plans in most remaining judets. Phase 11 of the Project will extend the program
of investment, training and rationalization to further judets. The following components of the
project, described in Section Cl below, address these issues: components I (Planning and
Regulation), 2 (District Hospitals), 3 (Primary Health Care Development) and 4 (Emergency
Medical Services).
The Health of the Population and Health Services. The Project will support better alignment
of health services to health needs through development of PHC services to reach poorly-served
remote areas in Phase I pilot judets, and piloting of better integrated service delivery. In addition,
the Project will support priority prevention programs from the public health priority areas
identified by the MOH. In Phase I, priority interventions will be undertaken in tobacco control,
TB control, STD/HIV prevention, and community mental health services. Phase II will roll out
these programs throughout the country and take up additional public health priority areas.
Component 5 (Public Health: Priority Prevention Programs) of the Project, described in Section
CI below, addresses these issues.
Although the major focus of investment under the project is in the above areas, it will also
support capacity building, and development of policy, regulatory and financing mechanisms in
MOH, DPHAs and HIHs. It will support development of planning processes, capital budgeting
and investment financing arrangements, monitoring and accountability arrangements to promote
efficient rationalization of physical and human resources. In addition, the components of the
Project include support for public information campaigns, to address identified problems with
public awareness of health issues, and to present reform measures from a consumer perspective.
As described in Section C I below, components I (Planning and Regulation), 3 (Primary Health
Care Development) and 5 (Public Health: Strategy Development and Capacity Building) address
these issues.
The major considerations in the decision to focus the Project on the above issues within the
broader, longer term health reform program of the GOR, and to design the Project in two phases
over the next five years, are as follows:
(a) Good progress has been made already on issues in Health Sector Finance as part of the
Project preparation process, supported by the PHRD Grant (TF027124), and assisted by
economic and sector work and policy dialogue carried out under the Bank's own work
program. It should be possible to maintain policy dialogue and leverage on health finance
reform without sizable investment.
(b) The EU/PHARE program is currently a major partner supporting the GOR's strategy in areas
(a) Governance, Legislation and Management of the System, and (b) Health Sector Finance;
EU/PHARE works in collaboration with the Bank, along with other international agencies, in
the policy dialogue over these areas of strategy.
11



(c) Lessons learned from the recently completed Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO)
are that the Project should adopt a simpler, more )hesive design, to avoid the
implementation problems which would arise ift  relatively small operation were spread
across too many aspects of the GOR's very wide L anging, long-term strategy. This factor has
become more salient in view of the reduction in the size of the proposed loan to US$60
million, down from an indicative loan size of US$100-120 million contemplated at the outset
of project preparation.
(d) Experience with health reforms in the region suggests that investment in development at the
service delivery level is likely to be less risky from a technical and political viewpoints than
investment in national policy development and health financing reform. This is a critical
consideration in the Romanian context which has been characterized by frequent changes in
leadership and management at the apex of the MOH and NHIH.
(e) More specifically, the investment in PHC, and the selection of priority areas for public health
intervention were based on potential gains in health status from evidence-based public health
interventions targeted at some of the areas of highest burden of disease, and at the poor.
(f) Although the GOR's reform program should be viewed as a 10 year program (or longer), at
this stage it is viewed as too uncertain to commit to a third phase of investment, beyond 2005.
The potential for emergence of alternative private and local sources of investment finance for
the sector over the next five to ten years may well be considerable, although dependent on
steadv progress in the sector and in general economic conditions. The need for Bank support
to   -tment in the later stages of the GOR's reform program should therefore be assessed in
ay    ive years' time in the light of these developments. This uncertainty makes it
pre .-_ ure to commit to a loan to support the full 10 year program at this stage. Accordingly,
the Project is designed to support two phases of investment over the next five years.
Meantime, IBRD and MOH resources will be targeted atjudets with greater need and lower
income in both phases of the Project.
An Adaptable Program Loan is regarded as the appropriate instrument to use for the Project
because the GOR's reform strategy calls for phased implementation over an extended time period,
and because an APL provides the flexibility to adapt the second phase of implementation in the
light of evaluation of pilot initiatives planned for Phase 1, and emerging developments in sector
policy, planning and legislation. The two-phase design will permit review of priorities and
methods of implementation in the light of experience, and in the light of the availability of other
sources of finance within the context of an agreed strategy. An APL also provides a vehicle for
setting trigger indicators for the second phase which address the broader context of the reform
program: the policy and financing conditions which must be in place as pre-requisites for
successful investment in service delivery and public health. During the preparation period, the
Romanian MOF requested consideration of an alternative design: a hybrid operation combining
an APL with an adjustment loan (as part of a proposed Public Sector Adjustment Loan).
However, the APL design is seen as offering greater advantages (such as more potential to create
incentives for reform within the health sector), and fewer risks (such as risks of problems in
coordinating the timing of health conditionalities with other tranche release conditions in a
PSAL).
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Phase I will develop the policy, planning and regulatory frameworks for investment and financing
of primary health care services, essential hospital services, and a public health strategy. It will
begin upgrading primary health care, essential hospital services and emergency medical services
in selected judets and hospitals. It will support priority public health programs in tobacco control,
TB prevention, STD/HIV prevention and community based mental health services.
12



Phase II would begin as soon as agreed objectives of Phase I are achieved, and overlap with
Phase I by one year. In Phase II, the Project would support the following:
(a) further refinement and implementation of the frameworks developed in Phase I for financing
and regulating investment, with increased focus on public-private partnerships and growing
private ownership of health services; further development and implementation of frameworks
for personnel development for health professionals and managers, including training, and the
qualifications and accreditation/certification framework;
(b) extension of the program of upgrading primary health care and essential hospital services to
further judets and hospitals, with continued targeting of project funds towards districts with
lower income and greater need, and increased focus on using project funds to create
incentives for rationalization of services, and integration of different levels of health care to
improve efficiency and cost-effectiveness;
(c) extension of investment in priority public health programs. Phase II will support the roll-out
of some initiatives developed as pilots or demonstration sites in Phase I (such as community-
based mental health services) as well as investment in additional public health priority areas
(such as prevention of road traffic accidents, prevention of drug and alcohol abuse).
The performance triggers for Phase II are outcome-oriented process indicators of progress during
Phase I towards policy objectives, and of progress in meeting the institutional conditions and
implementation milestones necessary for effective implementation of Phase II. They will be
assessed as part of monitoring and evaluation arrangements for Phase I of the project.
TRIGGER INDICATORS FOR PHASE II OF THE PROGRAM
Policy Indicators:
*  If required, amendments to the legal and regulatory framework for health care providers and for
financing of health sector investment will be initiated by MOH.
*  Public health strategy with targets in priority areas issued.
*  A lending and/or leasing scheme for financing family physicians in primary health care practices has
been established by the Health Insurance House and operating at least on a pilot basis for six months
or more.
Project implementation indicators:
* 3-4 judets in each socio-economic development region (at least 30 in total) have completed health
service plans and associated investment and human resource plans for developing and rationalizing
capacity in the sector, and improving integration between different types and levels of health care
delivery.
*  Substantial progress on contractual commitments (at least 80 percent) and disbursements (at least 70
percent) from APL I.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Program Summary and Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and
Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Board approval is sought for an APL commitment for a two-phase Program with an estimated
total cost of US$112 million, of which it is proposed that US$60 million would be financed by
IBRD. The APL would support key elements of the first five years' implementation of a longer-
term GOR strategy for health sector development. Phase I of the Project would be implemented
13



over a period of three years, at an estimated total cost of US$69.84 million (excluding costs of
front-end fee). It is proposed that IBRD support implementation of Phase I of the Program with
an initial APL of US$40.0 million. As well, Board authorization is sought for Europe and Central
Asia Regional Management to process and approve a second, overlapping APL of US$20 million
to support continued implementation under Phase II, which would also last for three years,
overlapping with the first phase by one year, as long as specified performance goals are met.
Phase I investments in upgrading of physical and human capacity will be carried out in 24
hospitals, with PHC investment concentrated in six pilot judets. In Phase II, investment will be
rolled out to a second wave ofjudets. The Phase I pilot judets were selected on the basis of two
types of criteria. Three pilot judets (Botosani, Tulcea, Harghita) were selected on the basis of low
per capita income and relatively poor health status, in order to achieve pro-poor targeting of
investment. Three judets (Arges, Covasna and Dolj) were selected on the basis of good
management capacity and stable finances, as sites where stronger implementation capacity should
permit more innovative service reforms to be undertaken successfully and evaluated. The
estimated costs of Phase I are shown in the following table:
Phase I Project Costs
Indicative              Bank-       % of
Component                 Sector        Costs       % of    Financing    Bank-
(US$M)      Total    (US$M)   Financing
1. Planning& regulation of the    Basic Health       1.92       2.7       1.17         61.1
healthcare delivery system
2. District hospitals: essential  Basic Health     25.81       36.7       18.33        71.0
upgrade
3. Primary health care           Basic Health        8.04      11.4       5.10         63.4
development
4. Emergency Medical Services    Basic Health      22.73      32. 4       12.90        56.8
5. Public health & disease control Basic Health     10.38      14.8       2.20         21.4
6. Project Management                               0.96        1.4        0.30        30.9
Total Project Costs                                69.84       99.4       40.00        57.2
Front-end fee                                       0.40        0.6        0.00        100
Total Financing Required                           70.24      100.0        40.0        56.9
Note: the above Table sets out project costs for Phase I only. Annexes 2 and 3 give costs for both phases.
Component 1. Planning and Regulation of the Health Care Delivery System
This component would provide technical assistance, training, studies, stakeholder consultation
and information dissemination to support the following: (a) development of health service plans
in at least 75 percent ofjudets to guide priorities for service development and for rationalization
and of physical and human resources; and (b) policy development and capacity building in the
MOH in health service planning and regulation, to create the appropriate incentive environment
for implementation of health service plans and for efficient and clinically effective investment in
and management of health care delivery. DFID will be a major partner in this component, through
parallel financing arrangements.
14



In Phase II, further support will be provided to implement plans and policies developed in Phase I.
Component 2. District Hospitals: Essential Upgrade
This component will upgrade operating theaters and intensive care units, and provide training in
clinical management of emergency cases in 24 district and teaching hospitals, as part of a strategy
to reduce preventable deaths from road accidents, heart attacks and other common emergency
cases. Training will be provided through a partnership with the University of Bucharest Medical
Faculty.
In Phase II, these investments will be rolled out to a second wave of hospitals, covering essential
operating theaters and intensive care in the rest of the country.
Component 3. Primary Health Care Development
At the national level, this component will support development of national policy for vocational
training, accreditation/certification, and continuing medical education (CME) for doctors and
nurses working in PHC. It will also support development of changes to payment and other
arrangements necessary to expand the role and improve the quality of PHC.
At the judet level, in Phase I this component will support the following activities in pilot judets:
(a) CME for PHC teams in all six pilot judets; (b) development and local adaptation of evidence-
based guidelines for diagnosis/treatment/referral for common conditions encountered in PHC in
Romania, including development of discharge planning procedures in coordination with district
hospitals; and (c) essential equipping of dispensaries and training of staff in poor and remote
areas.
In addition, in five of the pilot judets, the Project will support innovation in service integration
initiatives to rationalize diagnostic and ambulatory services in the hospitals and use these services
to support PHC.
Phase II will support the roll-out of these measures to furtherjudets, drawing upon evaluation
results of the pilot initiatives in Phase I, such as new referral and discharge procedures. Phase II
investments will continue to be targeted to rural and other poor areas, with least access to
alternative sources of finance.
DFID and Soros Foundation will be major partners for technical assistance and training activities
under this component, in a parallel financing arrangement, building on their previous experience
in this field in Romania.
Component 4. Emergency Medical Services
This component will support investment in integrated, community-based emergency medical
services, coordinated with other emergency services (principally, fire departments), in order to
reduce response times and improve health outcomes for accident and emergency cases. The
implementation plan gives priority to coverage of major highways. The project will establish
integrated dispatch systems with a single emergency phone number, integrated emergency
response teams in the judet capital cities, specialized extrication and rescue squads in fire
departments of the capital cities, first response teams in smaller towns, and one advanced mobile
medical post in each judet for major incidents. The component will also support public
information and awareness campaigns. The Swiss Development Corporation is a partner in Phase
15



I. Investment in equipment and training will be completed in Phase 1. Further training and
evaluation will occur in Phase II.
Component 5. Public Health and Disease Control
Strategy Development and Capacity Building.
This area of activity builds public health capacity in the MOH through technical and management
training; the development of a public health strategy; rationalization of morbidity and mortality
codes in line with ICD 10; and institutionalizing public health surveillance and monitoring
systems. DFID will be a partner in this sub-component.
Priority Interventions
This area of activity supports cost-effective public health interventions in four priority areas in
Phase I: measures to reduce tobacco consrinption; roll-out of a modem TB control strategy;
HIV/AIDS and STD awareness and education; and support for implementation of new mental
health legislation and development of modern, humane models for mental health services,
through establishment of a demonstration site for community-based mental health services. Soros
Foundation and WHO will be partners in this sub-component.
In Phase II, these initiatives will be extended, on the basis of evaluation, and additional priority
areas will be tackled, including prevention of motor vehicle accidents and prevention of drug and
alcohol abuse.
Component 6. Project Management
This component supports the Project Management Unit (PMU) already established in the MOH
Each of the main sub-components will have a designated agency or department in the MOH
responsible for day-to-day implementation under the supervision of the PMU (see Section E.4
below). Procurement and disbursement functions will remain centralized in the PMU.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Improved sector policy and regulatory framework, to meet priority needs and inprove
efficiency. The Project will support development of legal, regulatory and financial frameworks
for the health system. In these areas, the Project will complement activities financed by EU
PHARE to build institutional capacity in the MOH and health insurance houses, and activities
supported by USAID in hospital payment and primary care development. The Project will
support development of policy and regulation in areas which are necessary prerequisites for
successful implementation of other components of the Project, including: planning, regulation,
institutional arrangements and financing of health sector investment; development of policy and
regulation for vocational training for primary health care professionals, including accreditation/
certification and continuing medical education; and development of public health strategy, data
collection and surveillance.
Improving the effectiveness of htealth services tltrough investment in people, essentialfacilities
and in systems to promote integrated service delivery and cost-effective interventions. The
Project will support the development of primary health care, in particular, fostering reforms
which meet the needs of poor and remote rural areas. It will also promote the development of
appropriate relationships among primary care practices, diagnostic services, hospitals and
community care, to increase the range of health conditions which can be managed effectively in
primary care and outpatient settings, and achieving economies through rationalization of
16



diagnostic and treatment services. It will support the phased roll-out of integrated emergency
medical services (already piloted in onejudet), achieving gains in response times and
improvement in efficiency through integration across different emergency services (hospital
based services, fire departments and police), and improvements in clinical management of
emergency cases. It will support the development of a modern public health infrastructure and
upgrade the skills of the public health workforce accordingly, and improve the orientation and
resource allocation of public health services to increase their focus on the major causes of
morbidity, disability and premature mortality.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  The population at large, through reduced exposure to risk factors of major preventable
illnesses; target populations at risk of tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and STDs; patients with acute
and chronic mental health needs.
*  Populations in selected judets, through improved quality of PHC, and people in the catchment
areas of 24 hospitals through upgraded essential hospital services and emergency medical
services. A larger number ofjudets will benefit in Phase II, and will again be selected on the
basis of lower income and higher health need.
*  Populations at risk from road traffic accidents and medical emergencies in the catchment
areas of the major transport routes.
*  The MOH, through improved capacity for policy analysis, regulation and public health
planning and surveillance.
*  Health care workers, through improved equipment, and clinical and management skills.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation will be coordinated by a Project Management Unit (PMU) located in the
MOH, drawing on a nucleus of staff with experience in implementation of the first Romania
health project, the Health Rehabilitation Project (loan no. 3409-RO). Overall coordination,
project monitoring and reporting, procurement, disbursement and audit will be managed centrally
from the PMU. Each of the main sub-components will have a designated agency responsible for
day-to-day implementation and supervised by the PMU.
Financial management arrangements: As outlined in detail in Annex I 1, the PMU will put in
place an accounting system which meets the Bank's requirements prior to presentation of the
proposed Loan to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors, and will produce an accounting
manual and train accounting staff (retained from the PMU for the first Romania health project) by
this date.
The Ministry of Health will be the implementing agency for components which focus on health
services policy and planning (component I in Phase I of the Project), with support from the
Institute of Health Services Management. The Institute will provide local technical assistance to
judets for health service planning and development of integration initiatives and other pilot
initiatives. The Institute has implementation experience from the first Romania health project and
has a critical mass of personnel trained in health management and planning.
PHC and diagnostic services development to be implemented in the six pilot judets will be
managed locally by a full-time project manager based in the District Public Health Authority,
supported by a part-time accountant, and part-time health services specialist.
The emergency medical services component will be implemented by the Medical Assistance
Department of the MOH, with oversight from an advisory committee representing the MOH, the
Fire Department, the Department of Local Public Authorities, and Hospital Managers. The
17



Department and advisory committee already have experience in implementation of a pilot in
integrated emergency medical services in one region, and experience with implementation of the
first Romania health project. Regional and local task-forces will be appointed with the oversight
from this Department to implement this component at the local level.
The Public Health Strategy Development and Capacity Building activities will be implemented
by the Public Health Department of the MOH with the oversight from an advisory committee
representing the MOH, Public Health Institute and Institute of Health Services Management.
Priority intervention programs involving policy, regulation and health promotion activities
(tobacco control and STD/HIV prevention in Phase I of the Project) will be implemented by the
Center for Health Promotion (in the Institute of Health Services Management). TB control
activities will be implemented by the Institute for Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, which has
experience with implementation of the first Romania health project. Mental Health activities will
be implemented by the Department of Public Health in the MOH in collaboration with the
Obregia Psychiatric Hospital, with the oversight from an advisory committee also representing
the Romanian Psychiatric Association, Romanian Mental Health League, and WHO.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) No project (a cessation of Bank financial support to the health sector in Romania) or a
non-lending operation only. The recently completed first Romania Health project, Health
Rehabilitation Project, Loan 3409-RO, has recorded some successes. At the same time, it has
experienced problems arising from its complexity, from weak institutional capacity for project
implementation, a persistent constraint on hiring of foreign consultants (a problem with taxation
of foreign consultants) and associated problems with procurement processes. On balance, the
challenges are attributable to the overall slowness of Romania's reforms as a whole and to
institutional weaknesses specific to the health sector, particularly the MOH. These problems are
surmountable. Some of the general obstacles to project implementation affecting procurement
have been addressed through recent changes to legislation. The first project has also created a
critical mass of professionals trained in policy, planning and management and there is a nucleus
of staff in the MOH with implementation experience from that project. The sectoral issues
detailed above show the need for continued Bank involvement. The "do nothing" approach was
rejected for that reason and for reasons identified under "Value added of Bank support" in
paragraph 5 below. Although the CAS included non-lending services (the Romania Health Sector
Support Strategy Paper), IBRD funds provide crucial training and other capacity building
activities, together with infrastructure and equipment, in a sector which continues to face critical
shortages and chronic run-down of capacity.
(b) A traditional Specific Investment Loans The lessons of the first Romania health project
pointed to the need for flexibility to deal with emerging policy and political priorities and the
need to phase implementation to match capacity. These lessons point to the risks of a traditional
investment loan; hence the decision to adopt a program approach. The GOR has now developed
a long-term strategy and sector reform program, which is based on extensive consultation and
coalition-building, supported by the preparation process for the proposed second health project.
This strategy provides a stable policy environment in which phased implementation of reform can
take place. An Adaptable Program Loan provides the ability to commit support for
implementation of the long term strategy, while retaining greater fl:-k.ibility to learn from early
implementation experience and adapt to changes in the extemal environment, than would a
Specific Investment Loan.
18



(c) A smaller projectfocusing on disease control alone. This alternative would fail to address
the systemic problems of health governance, legislation, finance and health service delivery,
which are critical to sustainability and comprehensiveness of disease control strategies, as well as
ignore the need for a better mix of public and private sector roles and responsibilities.
(d) A larger project supporting all of GOR 's long term reform strategy, including healtht
finance reformL This alternative would ignore the lessons of the first project, which underscores
the need for a simpler, and more incremental approach to reform, matched to implementation
capacity. It would duplicate - or overlap to a significant degree - with activities currently
supported by EU/PHARE in its ECU4 million program for the health sector. The disappointing
experience with complex health finance reforms in many Europe and Central Asia (ECA)
countries points to the need to focus on provider-level and regulatory pre-conditions which must
be met before the sector can respond effectively to changing incentives and a changing market
environment. Additionally, it appears premature to commit to supporting a third phase of reform
implementation (in six to ten years' time), in view of uncertainty about the pace and extent of
private sector development and development of alternative sources of finance in Romania for
investment in upgrading the health system. Furthermore, the relatively modest size of the loan is
insufficient to support a larger project, and the current fiscal position of Romania militates against
either a significantly larger loan size or significantly greater counterpart funds contribution.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.__ _ _ _ _ _ _       o r n l
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Health - closed (closing date: June 30,  Health Rehabilitation Project   S          S
1999)
Other development agencies
EU PHARE                            Health Care Reform Program,
estimated ECU4 million,
1997-1999
USAID                               Hospital Payment/Cost
Accounting System and MIS;
Child Welfare and
Reproductive Health ($7
million)
Japanese International Cooperation  Health Program ($3 million)
Agency (JICA)
UNAIDS                              AIDS Control Program
Know How Fund - United Kingdom      Training of General
Practitioners
19



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
.____________________________                           _only)
Government of Switzerland          Emergency Medical Services,
Phase 2 ($6 million, 1998-
2000). Health policy training
Soros Foundation                   Primary Health Care Program
(1998-2000); Tuberculosis
Control, Training of General
Practitioners; Grants for
General Practitioners.
UNICEF                             Mother and Child Health;
Training of Romanians in
Costing a Package of Essential
Health Services; Nutrition
Surveillance; Adolescent
Health ($0.5 million from
Canadian International
Development Agency);
Hepatitis B Control
WHO                                Tuberculosis Control -
Technical Assistance
UNFPA                              Family Planning - Technical
Assistance
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
'Sector & Themes   . KM
The ECA Region's experience to date provides a number of lessons to be taken into account in
designing and implementing health projects in countries undergoing political, economic and
social transition. The lessons include the following: (a) under the best of circumstances, health
sector reform remains a long and politicized process; (b) the most technically sound strategies
cannot be implemented in the absence of strong, capable institutions and political will; and (c) the
impact of the political economy and the sensitivity surrounding even seemingly simple health
sector reforms are significant and must be directly addressed from the outset through
comprehensive public information and communication strategies targeted at the full range of
stakeholders. Experience has also shown that, despite the best efforts of staff and clients,
expectations have continued to be placed too high: projects have tended to be too complex, and
implementation requirements and timeframes have often been too rigid.
The health sector in Romania has been no exception to the above characterization. The first
health project in Romania, the Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO), closed on June 30,
1999. Initially a five-year, "emergency-type" project, it has taken seven and a half years to
implement. Chronic delays account for the unsatisfactory rating on Implementation Progress,
20



although after some restructuring and four extensions of the closing date, the loan was fully
disbursed. Implementation has been difficult for a number of reasons, including: multiple changes
in management in the MOH; overall weak project management and implementation capacity at
the outset; long delays in using project resources to supplement local capacity with key technical
assistance; and excessively bureaucratic procedures and requirements in the MOH, particularly
demands (often unexplainable and seemingly arbitrary) imposed by the Court of Accounts. Some
of these problems have been ameliorated by recent changes in legislation. It must be noted that
all of the foregoing were exacerbated by the very complex project structure. The main lessons
drawn from implementation of the Health Rehabilitation Project concern project complexity, the
need for flexibility during implementation, and the need for continued investment in developing
local capacity for sector policy, planning and management. It is unrealistic to specify ex ante
health system development activities in great detail. Although the goals of improved health
status, sustainable financing and efficiency remain constant, the policy environment changes and
the Bank must be flexible in the activities to be financed as well as the mode of implementation.
The Health Rehabilitation Project is currently undergoing an Intensive Learning Implementation
Completion Report (ILI), which has been designed expressly to draw specific and practical
lessons for the design and implementation of components of the second Project which build upon
the investment of the first Project. Implementing agencies for the second health Project will
participate in the relevant ILI workshops to ensure the findings of the ILI are transmitted
effectively.
In the design of the current Project, attempts have been made to address the foregoing issues in an
effort to ensure more successful implementation of changes in the way health services are
financed, organized, and delivered - implementation at Romania's pace. First of all, the
preparation process for the current Project has invested substantially in policy dialogue to support
the GOR to develop a strategy for health sector reform, and build a coalition of support for the
strategy which is likely to be robust through changes of administration. The program approach
recognizes the lengthy process of reform, engaging the Bank and its partners in a long-term
relationship to achieve common goals. Emphasis is being placed, and time is being taken, to
further strengthen local capacity on the ground, and on a smaller scale, through selected
experiments and pilots, prior to full-scale roll-out. Public information is an integral part of the
process, actively seeking to build a broad-based consensus embracing the full range of
stakeholders in the reform process, including policymakers at all levels of government, health
providers, and the general population. Project complexity will be reduced through limiting each
phase in the program to a restricted number of interventions, and timetables for implementation
will be determined on the basis of identified triggers which must be met before proceeding to the
next phase. The Project focuses predominantly on tangible provider development activities and
institutional development, accompanied by a modest and flexible program of policy and
regulatory reform. Closer project monitoring will also be better assured under such a design.
At the same time, the project design assumes that adequate and flexible supervision resources will
be key to ensuring a quality supervision effort throughout the various stages of the Health Sector
Reform Program. It must be recognized from the outset that a smooth, flowing process of
implementation is highly unlikely, but rather, implementation in waves orjumps-and-starts
should be expected - particularly throughout the first and second phases of the program as
structures are established, reform goals clarified and communicated to stakeholders, and winners
and losers identified.
21



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Regardless of World Bank support, Romania will reform its healthi sector. Government is
committed to a sector reform program and has embarked on some elements of this strategy,
through the 1997 Social Health Insurance Law. Changes in the political environment must be
expected during the life of the Project, and project design must be flexible and robust enough to
accommodate the attendant risks. Nonetheless, a number of recent developments indicate an
increasing willingness to chart a stable and sensible course. For example:
* The Minister of Health and Minister of Finance have approved a Health Sector Strategy and
draft implementation plan, the main principles of which were published in the Government of
Romania's Sustainable Development Strategy in July 1999.
* In correspondence with the Bank regarding outstanding issues to be resolved in retation to
health finance, the Minister of Health and the President of NHIH have agreed upon a work
program to address these issues, with the support of the Bank (see documentation listed in
Annex 8).
* Government passed an emergency Ordinance in October 1998, amending some key
provisions of the 1997 Health Insurance Law, the implementation of which could have
resulted in serious problems. The Ordinance, as specified in The Official Monitor of
Romania (No.421 of November 6, 1998), postponed by four years plans for elective Boards
for the insurance houses, and increases the redistribution fund from 7 percent to 25 percent of
revenues.
* The MOH has been pursuing institutional development activities in the MOH and health
insurance houses, to support changing roles under the Government's health reforms, with the
EU PHARE Program, an organization with which the Bank is collaborating in Romania's
health sector.
* Government has formulated policies supportive of tobacco control and a draft law is under
review. However, tobacco smuggling remains a problem.
* Government and local experts successfully undertook program preparation activities, funded
by the PHRD Grant Number TF027124 for the health sector.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will add value to the Health Sector Reform Program by: (i) working with Romanian
professionals and partner agencies to focus the reform program on the most important health
problems, on long-run sustainability and on systemic changes to improve efficiency;
(ii) facilitating a coalition of domestic and external stakeholders in support of the health sector;
(iii) providing access to, and encouraging the adaptation of, relevant international experiences
from within and outside the formerly socialist economies of Eastern Europe, based in part on
lessons from Bank-supported initiatives; and (iv) enabling coherence among the range of sectoral
adjustments being undertaken by the Government with Bank support.
22



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[1 Cost benefit       NPV=US$18.3 million; ERR= %
D] Cost effectiveness
Z Other (specify)
Introduction: An examination of the prevalent burden of disease in Romania and inefficiencies
in the health care system made it possible to identify: (a) potential gains in health status, as
measured by gains in Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs); and (b) potential gains in
efficiency of the health care system.
More specifically:
*  There is much disease and related ill effects that could be prevented by reducing smoking
prevalence and adopting healthier lifestyles (better diet and more exercise);
*  Hospital lengths of stay are too long;
*  Out-patient health care services at the non-hospital level are in particular need of
improvement;
- There is very little coordination among levels of care; and
I Infectious diseases such as tuberculosis are on the rise and can become an even more
important burden of disease if effective measures are not targeted towards controlling them.
Methodology: Stylized cost-benefit analysis has been carried out using local costs and health
service utilization data from a sample provider, and local morbidity and mortality data, assuming
that similar benefits might be achieved from project interventions, as have been experienced in
other countries adopting these sector strategies. The cost savings and death/disability avoiding
effects of a loan are only captured from those judets in which the loan is expected to operate
except in the case of public health interventions where the entire country is expected to benefit.
Estimates of the benefits of the loan for all sub-components are indicative in nature and are not
meant to capture all the potential benefits.
Results: For sub-components 1, 2, and 3, the cost saving effects would result from both a
reduction in the utilization of "high cost" hospital interventions such as coronary artery bypass
surgery due to improved primary care and diagnostic services, and a decrease in length of stay for
high demand hospitalizations due to improved diagnostic and treatment capacity, better hospital
management and better incentives in the provider payment system.
Sub-component 4 is designed to improve emergency response in select districts, which might be
expected to result in some reduction in "high cost" hospitalizations. Nonetheless, the greatest
gain is expected to be from a reduction in DALYs from trauma and heart disease (predominantly
ischemic heart disease). In the presented case, it is assumed that there would be a 2.5 percent
reduction in deaths and disability in the population where this sub-component would be active.
The benefits from the public health portion of the investment would result in both a cost savings
and a reduction in lost DALYs. The reduction in lost DALYs is calculated by assuming that 2
percent of smoking and diet-related DALYs from the following disorders would be avoided by
component 5: cardio-vascular diseases, cerebro-vascular diseases, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD) and lung cancer. Because component 5 has a program to reduce the impact of
tuberculosis, it was also modeled that there would be a 2 percent reduction in tuberculosis related
DALYs as well.
23



Table A indicates that even when only some of the quantifiable potential befefits are incorporated
into a cost-benefit analysis, a positive net present value of US$18.3 million can be expected using
a discount rate of 5 percent and assuming the savings from the loan are approximately the same
every year for twenty years. In addition, it is estimated that some 38,000 DALYs (to which no
monetary value has been attached) would be saved.
Spreadsheets outlining the associated cost-benefit analysis are included as Annex 4, Tables A, B
and C.
2. Fiscal Impact:
Average annual project costs (excluding tax), are approximately 2 percent of 1999 public health
expenditure. Public health expenditure has been stable in US dollar terms for the last five years,
though there is some capacity for an increase in expenditure this year as health insurance revenue
has increased due to increased contribution rate and improved collection. Recurrent costs under
the Project amount to approximately 0.25 percent of projected public health expenditure, though
around half of these costs are concentrated in six pilot judets which account for some 12 percent
of the population. The recurrent costs of depreciation, repairs and maintenance and consumables
associated with the project investments have been assessed as affordable for the participating
judets, and are well within typical ratios for these categories of expenditure within the health
budget.
3. Technical:
For more detail, see background technical preparation from which project components have been
derived, summarized in Romania Health Sector Support Strategy, WB Report No. 1841 0-RO.
Component 1: Planning and Regulation of the Health Care Delivery System. This component
uses methods of health service planning currently adopted by a number of EU countries with
publicly financed health systems (particularly in the UK and Scandinavia) to set priorities for
health service development and identify opportunities for rationalizing human and physical
resources in each judet. This approach is needed to address existing problems of ad-hoc methods
of making investment decisions, and to address underlying problems of fragmented service
delivery arrangements and mal-distribution of capacity. These methods have the potential to
achieve efficiency gains in service delivery, greater financial sustainability of the health services
network, and improved allocation of investment finance.
Component 2: District Hospitals: Essential Upgrade. This component targets an area of
preventable morbidity and mortality which has been identified by analysis of the burden of
disease and by comparison of Romania's health system performance with that of selected other
European countries. Investment is targeted at ensuring that all emergency operating theaters and
intensive care units have a functional set of basic equipment, identified and prioritized by
specialists in intensive care medicine. In addition, personnel working in departments to be
equipped will receive training in best practice management of emergency cases, under the
oversight of the teaching staff of the leading emergency hospital in Romania. The impact of the
program on mortality will be measurable with existing data bases.
Component 3: Primary Health Care Development. This component is part of a strategy for
shifting management of patient care to PHC settings for a larger proportion of cases, and
reserving use of hospital care for more complex and acute conditions. This strategy is based on
aligning Romanian health care delivery with the model of care operating in those EU countries
whose health systems produce relatively good health care outcomes with relatively smaller shares
of GDP spent on health. Part of the investment is targeted towards addressing identified
24



problems of doctor shortages in these areas and target the poor, and draws on models of care
employed successfully in other countries with problems of rural access as well as on the
evaluation of rural primary health care initiatives carried out in eight districts under the Health
Rehabilitation Project (referenced in Annex 8).
Component 4: Emergency Medical Services. The design of the integrated emergency services
strategy supported by this component has drawn upon international literature and combines the
advantages of several different countries experience, rather than importing a single country's
approach. Moreover, the integrated system has been piloted in one district (Mures) to assess its
practicability and effectiveness in the Romanian context. Integrated dispatching and integration
with other emergency services have been demonstrated to enable efficiency gains and reductions
in response times.
Component 5: Public Health and Disease Control. The capacity-building activities of this
component are directed at aligning Romania's public health infrastructure and data bases with
those of EU and OECD countries, to allow better comparative analysis of Romania's health
system performance and population health. Priority interventions supported in Phase I of the
Program were selected on the basis of contribution to the burden of disease, availability of cost-
effective interventions and readiness for implementation. The proposed strategies for
tuberculosis control, STD/HIV prevention, and for development of mental health services are in
line with expert consensus on cost-effective best practice: strategies have been developed with the
assistance of WHO, which will continue to provide expert advice.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Health, through the Project Management Unit, is the implementing agency for
the Project. However, each of the main sub-components will have a designated agency
responsible for day-to-day implementation. The MOH will establish through the order of the
Minister of Health which directorates are involved in supporting the implementation of the
Project in collaboration with NHIH and the MOI and with other legal entities specified by the
order and agreeable to the Bank. These directorates and agencies will be supervised by the Project
Management Unit (PMU).
b. Project management:
A Project Management Unit (PMU), with overall responsibility for the Project, will be
established in the MOH (under the Department of Health Policy), under the jurisdiction of the
Minister of Health. The core staff of the PMU will include a Project Director, a Procurement
Specialist, a Procurement Assistant, an Accountant, a Primary Health Care/Public Health Adviser
and a Hospital Planning and Management Adviser.
The core staff for the PMU for this project will be drawn from the trained procurement,
disbursement and project management staff of the PMU of the first Romania health project, to
retain the skills and experience with Bank procedures already built up in the MOH. This group of
staff have remained in place and so are able to undertake planning for project implementation
throughout the period of preparation for the second health project without any delay.
In each of the pilot judets, a full time project manager will be appointed, supported by a part-time
accountant, and part-time health specialist adviser. Procurement and disbursement functions will
be centralized in the central PMU, but supported by information, analysis, consultation and
25



reporting from the judet project teams. In addition, the Project provides for a significant level of
local technical assistance to support judets in service planning, training and implementation.
Financial Management Risks. The financial management capacity within Romania has not
been the subject of a detailed review by the Bank. However, primarily because of other
implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in the financial management
capacity within Romania have been mitigated for this project by the use of the existing Project
Management Unit in the Ministry of Health, drawing upon its experience of project
implementation with the Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO); and by the use of
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank for the audit of the project. Any weaknesses in the
Romanian banking sector will be mitigated by the use of a commercial bank deemed eligible by
the Bank to hold the project's Special Account.
Project Financial Management Arrangements. The PMU is responsible for the project
financial management system. The PMU has contracted with a qualified software and accounting
firm, on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for installation of a financial management
system, preparation of accounting manuals and training of staff, in order to meet the Bank's
financial management requirements. The system will be assessed by the Bank's financial
management specialist prior to Board presentation. The PMU will produce quarterly project
management reports (PMR) for management infornation purposes. The initial complete set of
PMRs will reflect the quarter ended September 30th, 2000. The PMU will have the project
accounts audited (including special accounts and statements of expenditures) in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA), by a firm of independent auditors. A shortlist of
auditors must be presented for no objection to the Bank prior to Board presentation. A separate
special account will be opened for the Project at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. A
letter of comfort is to be issued by the selected bank. An updated financial management action
plan was agreed between the Bank and the Romanian authorities during negotiations. Details are
given in Annex 11
5. Social:
The Project will seek to increase the probability of favorable impacts on health status, favorable
impacts on the most needy segments of the society.
Most of the key institutions are new to the roles expected of them. There is a tendency to over-
estimate the available capacity relative to the required level of effort. Some confusion exists in
the population at large and among health professionals about the real purpose of health sector
reform and its potential effects on them. As part of project preparation, these issues were
examined in some detail through a study of public expectations, beliefs and attitudes towards the
heath sector. (Charney Research, Relationships and Resources: Public Perspectives on
Romania 's Health Care System and Insurance Law. September, 1998, available in Project files).
The main findings of the study are summarized in Annex 14.
The findings of the study pointed to the need to engage a wide range of organizations and
influential individuals in a process of building consensus around a strategy for the health sector.
The Romania Health Sector Reform Study, funded by PHRD Grant TF027124 (available in
project files), was conducted using a participatory approach, and has helped to facilitate the
MOH1s development of a health sector strategy, approved by Minister of Finance and Minister of
Health in 1999.
Improving Equity in Health and Access to Health Services
26



Inequities are evident in terms of access to health services. The decision to focus on improving
the quality of primary health care, particularly in rural areas, and essential hospital services,
particularly in lower income judets, was based on a social assessment of poverty carried out in
Romania (WB Report No. 1 6462-RO, Roniania, Poverty and Social Policy, April 1997). The
assessment examined issues about the access of the poor and of urban and rural populations to
health services of different types. It also examined the distribution of health expenditure. The
conclusions of this and other related research on the health sector are summarized in Annex 14.
The assessment found that the majority of the poor receive health care from primary health care
dispensaries, particularly in rural areas. In its examination of the targeting of health spending, the
assessment found that the distribution of total spending is weakly non-poor. The poor receive a
greater proportion of total health spending than their share in total income (proxied by
consumption), but a much smaller proportion of the total health spending than their share in total
population. Spending for primary health care is the least regressive of all health spending. The
assessment concluded that the quality of primary health care system could be instrumental in
improving the health status of the poorest groups.
The Project will contribute to poverty alleviation by emphasizing primary health care and priority
public health interventions, as well as a more efficient and needs-based approach to resource
allocation and management.
6. Environmental assessment:               Environment Category: B
The only potential issue involves the rehabilitation of public health facilities, which is being
undertaken as a prerequisite for hospitals and dispensaries to benefit from equipment procured
under the project. Plans for the rehabilitation of public health facilities will include aspects that
will ensure that the environment is not negatively affected by the civil works supported under the
Project. No adverse environmental effects are anticipated. The Project will follow accepted
Bank procedures. All hospital and health center activities will incorporate appropriate and safe
disposal of wastes (see Annex 12)
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or
may influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Groups/Institutions                                 Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups
Population at large                                 Consultations - directly and through
Parliamentary Commission on Health                  elected representatives. Participation in
Ministry of Health                                  detailed studies of sub-sectoral issues.
Ministry of Finance                                 Formal and informal consultations.
Doctors, Nurses, Pharmacists, Paramedical workers
b. Other key stakeholders:
Groups/Institutions                               Preparation
Intermediary NGOs                                 Formal and informal consultations.
Academic institutions                             Participation in detailed studies of sub-
sectoral issues
27



Local government                                 Participation in detailed studies of sub-
District Health Administration                   sectoral issues.
Fornal and infornal consultations.
Other donors: EUPHARE, USAID, COUNCIL OF    Participation in detailed studies of sub-
EUROPE, UNICEF, WHO, UNFPA, DFID, Swiss    sectoral issues.
Development Corporation                          Formnal and informal consultations.
28



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The following factors are critical for sustainability of project benefits:
(i)  Stable or growing public health revenue;
(ii)  Stability in health sector strategy and sector management;
(iii) Government's willingness and capacity to infuse health system with increased incentives
for efficiency, quality and affordable access;
(iv) Government and population's willingness and ability to increase health expenditure in the
areas of greatest need: primary care, essential hospital services and public health; and
(v)  Private sector's willingness and capacity to manage health services as or more efficiently
than the public sector, and to comply with contracts with HIH regarding quality, access and
patient co-payments.
Public health revenues have increased in 1999, following increases in contribution rates and
improvement in collections. While it is not possible to avoid political change during the life of
the Project, the participatory approach to preparation, and the use of implementation agencies
with some degree of autonomy from core Government ministries helps to increase the prospect
of stable commitment to the policies supported by the Project and stability in project
management. The last two years have seen the first steps in development of changes to provider
payment arrangements which should improve incentives in the sector.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
No significant fluctuations in health care   M         Aggregate revenue now appears stable and
revenues, and reasonable stability in                  changed revenue arrangements will be
insurance and provider management.                     evaluated in 2000; Phase I judets selected
which have average or better revenue
collection performance.
MOF, MOH, and key stakeholders accept         S         Agreement reached prior to appraisal on health
the changes to legislation, regulation,                 sector strategy and work program for resolving
resource redistribution and governance                  outstanding issues.
arrangements envisaged under the project
Local stakeholders reach consensus on         S         Workshops to reach agreement prior to
judet health service plans.                             appraisal for Phase I pilotjudets. Agreement
in otherjudets is a Phase II condition.
Sufficient incentives are in place to attract  S        TA for development of health financing
consumers from secondary to primary                     mechanisms can support development of better
level, in line with protocols.                          financial incentives.
Stakeholders in District Health, Interal     M          Model successfully piloted in one judet
Affairs (Fire Department) and Local                     already, so implementation agencies have
Authorities, and staff urrions, accept                  experience of negotiating with stakeholders.
integrated emergency services strategy.
29



Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient or delayed counterpart          M          Most counterpart funds will derive from
(Government) funds.                                     provider revenue from their contracts with the
NHIH, which reduces risk of insufficient or
delayed counterpart (Government) funds.
Weak Government implementation                S         Keep modules of the Program simple.
capacity.                                               Establish provisions for private sector
implementation, with Government oversight.
Sufficient incentives are in place to        M          Participation of HIH in implementation
encourage most PHC staff to participate                 provides the potential to create contractual and
in training programs and use new skills                financial incentives.
and equipment.
Training centers established and staff
identified and released for training.
Politics and controversies of reform.        S          Proactive engagement of local stakeholders
Unforeseen changes in the Government                    and incorporation of their priorities into the
or the MOH leadership.                                  reform. Broad-based approach beyond the
current political leadership.
______________________________  _____________Public advocacy.Y
Overall Risk Rating                          S                                                  .
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Discipline is required to adopt plans for rationalizing public sector health services, and to
coordinate all investment on the basis of a prioritized plan. Sectional interests within the health
sector may seek to retain the status quo, and more powerful providers - often in the tertiary level
of the health system, or in better-resourced parallel networks - are often well placed to capture a
disproportionate share of investment finance.
Tobacco control measures are controversial and the political dimension is not to be taken lightly,
despite overwhelming scientific evidence of their cost effectiveness.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There are no Conditions of Effectiveness.
30



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Disbursement
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments under the categories of goods, training and
technical assistance, specialized technical assistance or unallocated expenditure until the
Borrower has paid the front-end fee.
Conditions of Board Presentation
The following condition will need to be met prior to Board presentation (in practice, by May 30,
2000):
a) A Financial Management System (FMS) software for the project in conformity with the Bank's
requirements on project financial management will be installed and tested by the Bank's
financial management expert; the Accounting Manual will have been produced and relevant
training of PMU accounting staff will have taken place.
b) Written commitment from the MOH and the District Public Health Authorities and district
hospital directors in Arges, Botosani, Covasna, Dolj, Harghita, and Tulcea thatresources will
be provided to upgrade rural dispensaries to an adequate standard in time for the planned
installation of equipment to be procured under APL I.
H. Readiness for Implementation
n The bidding documents for the first year's activities are complete and have received "no
objection" from the Bank.
I 1 The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
'. Compliance with Bank Policies
i  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
g The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Loraine Hawkins                Annette Dixon                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                    Sector Director                Country Director
31



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Link to good practice examples
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance             Monitoring &         Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
(a) development of a     1. Fiscal balance        1. Study by end of project  No major economic and
sustainable health finance   maintained within health   comparing standard  social crises.
and management system;   system and efficiency of   financial and efficiency
health care delivery system  indicators with baseline
improved.               (1999).
(b) improvement of the   2. Life expectancy       2. Trends of routine
health status of the     increased.               national vital statistics
population; and          3. Decreased rates of infant indicators.
mortality, maternal
mortality and of preventable
deaths (cardiovascular
deaths, motor vehicle
accidents).
(c) increased ownership of  4. Increased proportion of 3. Consumer and
health sector reform by  population satisfied with   professional satisfaction
stakeholders in the society  health system.       surveys.
Program Purpose:         End-of-Program           Program reports:        (from Purpose to Goal)
Indicators:
Development of a health    1. Total expenditure for    1. Financial reporting  Government maintains
sector in order to:      public health from all   systems of the Ministries of commitment and continuity
a) improve efficiency and   sources monitored for the   Health, Finance and the    towards health reform._
equity in the planning and   duration of the Project  NHIH.
regulation of the health  relative to the level of year 2,4. Trends of routine  Government maintains/
service delivery system; b)  2000                 national vital statistics and  develops commitment to
reduce preventable deaths   2. Decreased incidence of  morbidity indicators.  participatory approach,
among emergency medical  TB and STDs              3. Contracting data of  involvement of stakeholders
cases; c) improve access and 3. Proportion of hospital   Insurance Houses.  and representatives of the
quality in primary health   admissions and outpatient  5. Health related behaviors population in major policy
care in poor and remote    attendances referred by GPs and health care utilization   decisions
areas; and d) help the  increased by 2005.        data from general
Romanian health sector to  4. Decrease mortality from  household survey and  Determinants of health
better focus on priority  road accidents and heart   specifically designed  status and health risk
public health problems,    attacks by 2005.       surveys.                 behavior beyond the scope
thereby reducing         5. Selected proxy indicators                      of the program do not
preventable illness and  for health behavior                               deteriorate.
deaths.                 improved by 2005
(approximately 5%
reduction in tobacco
32



Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance              Monitoring &        Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
smoking by 2005, reduction
of proportion of calories
intake from saturated fats,
survey measure of safe sex
among high risk groups).
Project Development      Outcome I Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to
Objective:               Indicators:                                       Purpose)
PHASE I
In Phase I, the Project  1. Legal and institutional   1,2. Bank review of studies Economic growth increases
would support activities    framework for public and   performed, legislation and  and remains reasonably
directed at achieving the    private providers,   regulation enacted and   stable.
following objectives:    conducive to efficient   plans approved in the areas
a) improving the capacity  delivery and investment    of revenue allocation,  Government commitment to
for policy, planning,    proposed by MOH.      contracting of services,    agreed principles of health
regulation, finance and  2. Judet health services    investments, governance of reform strategy remain
management in the     plans agreed locally and    financing and provider  stable.
health sector;        nationally for at least 30    institutions.
b) improving quality, cost- judets.                                        Health insurance revenue
effectiveness and     3. At least 50% of PHC   3. Utilization, referral and  remains at least constant in
technical efficiency of  providers in phase I judets  prescription statistics from  real terms over time.
PHC in selected poor   are using protocols for  routine Ministry of Health
and remote areas,     common conditions.       and Insurance Houses     State budget expenditure for
essential hospital and   4. Increased survival rates  information systems.  public health remains at
ambulatory health care  and proportion receiving                       least constant in real terms
services and emergency qualified care before   4,7. Contracting data and   over time.
medical services; and   admission for major    evaluations of District
c) modernization of public emergency cases in selected Insurance Houses.   Key stakeholders in health
health services in the   judets where emergency                         sector committed to use
areas of tobacco control, services are upgraded.  5. Information systems of  experience gained and plans
tuberculosis prevention, 5. Increased patient  the TB network and of    developed during phase I
AIDS/HIV prevention,  compliance with DOTS in  selected emergency       for shaping of service
STD prevention and    80% or more judets.      services.                developments in all
community-based       6. Increased HIV/AIDS                             districts.
mental health care.   awareness among first    6. Surveys on consumer
tranche of community     satisfaction and health care
leaders undergoing       related knowledge, attitudes
education.               and behaviors.
7. Reduced hospital ALOS
and readmission rates for
mental health patients in
pilot area for community-
based mental health
services.
33



Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators              Evaluation          ; Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:       Project reports:          (from Outputs to
component:                                                                   Objective)
1. a. Improved policy,    Component 1              1. Bank review of studies   No significant reductions
regulatory and institutional  *  Health service plans    performed, plans    in health care revenues, and
frameworks, and district-    developed for 3-4     developed, legislation and  reasonable stability in
level service plans for future   judets in each socio-   regulation enacted.  insurance and provider
development of cost-         economic development                            management.
effective, quality health    region, at least 30   2. Evaluation reports by
services, accessible to all  judets in aggregate.    project implementation  MOF, Cabinet and
and aligned with health need *  10 staff from MoH and  units, and bank reviews of  Parliament support changes
b. increased capacity in     one staff from each   service arrangements,     in strategy, legislation and
MOH for service planning     DPHA trained for      human and physical        regulation for major
and evaluation of            average of 14 days.    resources developments in  elements of reform.
investment                                         phase I districts.
Component 2                                        Trained staff are motivated
2. Better equipped and    *  District hospitals    3. Utilization and referral  to continue to work in
trained essential hospital   equipped in operating   statistics from routine  relevant positions in the
services in selected district  theaters and intensive   Ministry of Health,  system and actively
hospitals, trained to improve    care units; 50% of staff Insurance Houses and  involved in policy design,
management of emergency      in these units retrained; providers (hospitals,  development of regulations
cases.                       all staff using       emergency services)       and day-to-day
equipment receive    information systems.      management of insurance
3. a. Better equipped and    training on appropriate                         and provider institutions.
trained primary care         use.                  4. Contracting data and
network in pilot judets, with                      evaluations of District   Local stakeholders reach
more efficient and effective Component 3           Insurance Houses.         consensus on judet health
relationships with specialist, *  50% or more primary                        service plans.
diagnostic and hospital      care practices in Phase I 5. Reports of participant
services in 6 pilotjudets.   judets trained according evaluation of training  Training, equipment,
b. Access to better          to standards.         programs.                 protocols and system
equipped, and staffed rural  *  Protocols/ guidelines                        developments are used by
PHC dispensaries and         for prevention and                              most staff in primary care,
training for staff, to give  management of x                                 essential hospital services
access to basic care in      common conditions                               and emergency medical
selected poor and remote     developed.                                      services.
areas.                    *  PHC activities,
including equipping and                        Contracts of providers with
4. Better equipped and       training of family                              health insurance recognize
coordinated emergency        doctors evaluated in six                        changes in delivery capacity
medical services.            pilot districts.                                and provide appropriate
Specified initiatives for                      recurrent funding.
ambulatory centers to
support primary health                          Competencies acquired by
care and rationalize                           trained staff are actually
diagnostic services                             used in current management
piloted and evaluated in                       and service delivery.
six pilot districts.
Conducive legal, regulatory
Component 4                                        and contracting framework
*  20 Integrated dispatch                          in place, to allow and
34



Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance              Monitoring &         Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
systems, 28 integrated                        stimulate provider
emergency response                             management to pursue
teams. 20 specialized                          efficiency and quality
extraction teams                               improvement goals.
functioning in selected
judets; 20 emergency                           Sufficient incentives are in
departments and                                place to attract consumers
intensive care units                          from secondary to primary
equipped and trained;                         level, in line with protocols.
increased % of major
emergencies receiving                          Stakeholders in District
qualified attendance                           Health, Internal Affairs
before hospital                               (Fire Department) and
admission; response                            Local Authorities, and staff
times for attendance at                        unions, accept integrated
major emergencies                              emergency services
reduced to less than 8                         strategy.
minutes.
Cabinet, financial
regulatory authorities and
Parliament accept a legal
and institutional framework
for Health Services
Development Fund which is
conducive to innovation,
adaptation and reduced
bureaucratic barriers.
Data is produced regularly
to monitor provider
performance and analyze
allocation of health
expenditure.
5. a. Public health strategy, Component 5          1. Bank review of strategy  Ministry of Health is
data, and trained personnel                        documents, and           willing to shift resources
at national and district level Strategy and Capacity  of survey and surveillance  within public health
to support shift in      Development               data.                    budget.
orientation of public health  *  National public health
services to address major    strategy with targets in  2. Report of participant    Ministry of Finance and
causes of preventable illness    priority areas    evaluation of training   Parliament are willing to
and death (non-              disseminated;         programs.                accept increases in tobacco
communicable diseases and *  survey and surveillance                        taxes and increased
high priority communicable   data completed with   3. Reports on CINDI      enforcement of legislation.
diseases).                   acceptable           interventions.
methodology coverage                           Information from improved
b. Effective illness         and arrangements in   4.Review of tobacco related surveys and surveillance
prevention and health        place for routine     legislation and regulation   systems is used as a basis
promotion interventions      implementation;       enacted.                 for decision-making by
implemented in four Phase I n  staff trained long-                          national and local health
35



Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance            Monitoring &         Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
priority areas for public  term/basic in-        5. Information systems of  authorities, insurance
health action: tobacco      country/abroad, staff  the TB network.        houses and other
control, TB prevention,    trained short-term!                            stakeholders.
STD/HJV prevention,         continuous education.  6. Population surveys on
community-based mental                           health and health care   Trained staff are motivated
health services.         Priority Interventions:  related knowledge, attitudes to continue to work in
tobacco advertising    and behaviors.        relevant positions in the
further restricted;                          system and actively
tobacco tax increased;                        involved in policy design,
inter-sectoral coalition                     development of regulations
established to reduce                        and implementation of
tobacco use; public and                      interventions.
professional education
conducted;
* TB patient compliance
protocol disseminated
to all districts, including
education material and
training; two public
education campaigns
conducted reaching
target high TB risk
groups; bacteriologic
diagnosis capacity
upgraded;
Public awareness
campaigns on
HIV/AIDS and STDs
risks; at least two
sustained campaigns
with coverage of more
than x percentage of
population at risk
carried out; and
New mental health law and
associated regulations
adopted, and public &
health professionals
informed about the law;
demonstration site for
community-based
mental health services
established in one area
of Bucharest, with
multi-disciplinary team
of staff trained and
operating new models
of team-work and
patient care.
6. Phase I well managed,   6. Project components                          PMU and implementing
36



Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance             Monitoring &        Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
and systems in place for    delivered on time and                         agencies adopt a results-
management of Phase II.   within budget.                                  oriented, outcome-focused
approach to project
management.
Project Components t     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                       Outputs)
1. Planning and regulation   US$1.92 million     Regular Bank monitoring   Sufficient incentives are in
of health service delivery                       reports, including:      place to encourage most
system                                           * progress reporting     staff to participate in
* financial reporting   training programs and use
2. District hospitals:   US$25.81 million        * disbursement reports    new skills and equipment.
essential upgrade                                * procurement records
* contracts, TORs       Recurrent funding available
3. Primary health care and   US$8.04 million     * audits                 through contracts with
ambulatory/diagnostic                            * supervision reports    health insurance, to ensure
services to support PHC                                                   adequate maintenance and
efficient operation of
4. Emergency medical     US$22.73 million                                 equipment.
services in selected
Training accompanies
5. Public health and disease US$10.38 million                             equipment investments.
control
District Health Authorities,
6. Project management    US$0.96 million                                  Fire Departments, Local
Authorities and unions
cooperate with
implementation of
emergency medical services
strategy.
PMU communicates
effectively with
implementing agencies at
national level and in pilot
judets.
Implementing agencies
identify and maintain full-
time project managers and
part-time support staff.
TOTAL                    US$69.84 million
37



Annex 2: Project Description
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Total Cost = US$ 112 million, of which IBRD = US$60 million; Phase I costs = US$69.84 IBRD
= US$40 million
This Project supports activities which form part of a wider health sector reforrn program (set out
in Annex 13 in the Letter of Sector Development Strategy and Reform Program), also supported
by other international agencies and donors.
By Component:
Project Component I -
APL l: US$1.92 million, of which IBRD US$1.17 million
PLANNING & REGULATION OF THE HEALTHCARE DELIVERY SYSTEM
This component includes three areas of activity:
a) development of health service plans and associated investment and human resource plans in
at least 75 percent ofjudets, including 3-4 in each socio-economic development region,
building on the pilot planning exercise already completed in Arges and Sibiu;
b) development of a new organizational unit in the Ministry of Health which would bring
together responsibility for using planning and analysis to develop modern regulation of health
care providers, and evaluate the state investment program.
a) District Health Service Plannine. Health service planning has been piloted already in
Arges and Sibiu, with the support of EU/PHARE. A World Bank Trust Fund is now supporting
development of a manual for planning, based on these two pilots. The first APL will support the
roll-out of this planning methodology through out at least 75 percent of remainingjudets in the
country, in three waves, each lasting approximately nine months. This process will produce a
health services plan, and an investment plan and human resource plan for each judet, to guide
future development and rationalization of services, and to provide a basis for judets and the MOH
to use in determining priorities for investment in the health sector.
In each judet, working groups will be established to conduct the review of services and
development of plans, under the oversight of a local steering group representing DPHA, District
Hospital, DHIH, GPs and College of Physicians. Technical support and coordination of planning
will be provided by the IHSM, supplemented by additional local technical assistance as
necessary. A core group of staff at the IHSM will receive a short training course from a foreign
expert in the methodology and use of the statistical software for planning. A foreign expert will
also be retained on a limited basis, to provide technical back-up and advice to the local planning
personnel, and to assist local personnel to access international comparative data and evidence. A
group of five regional coordinators will be engaged, each coordinating planning in two to three
districts in each of the three waves. Additional local support for data entry and collation is also
likely to be required.
Completion of health service plans, investment and human resource plans for 3-4 judets in each
socio-economic development region, at least 30 in total, will be a trigger indicator for the second
APL. The plans will form the basis for setting priorities for investment in buildings, equipment,
38



systems and personnel development that will be supported in Phase II of the project. Investment
would seek to consolidate and coordinate services, based on a service plan for each district which
must be sustainable in terms of recurrent costs.
b) Strenathening MOH Capacity for and Planning of Resources for Health Services. The
project will provide training for staff in the fields of planning, investment appraisal and
evaluation, for selected staff in a proposed planning unit of the Ministry and in other departments
of the Ministry which are involved in evaluating and administering the state investment program
in the health sector. Two to three staff will be trained in program planning, financial analysis and
investment appraisal. Three staff will be trained in health service planning, and two in health
needs assessment and evaluation. Training will also be provided for decision-makers overseeing
the planning and investment program. Training will be provided in short courses, combining
structured study visits with short courses delivered locally. Two to three candidates will be
identified for long-term training in health services planning and medical technology appraisal,
and distance-learning options for delivering this training will be explored. Technical assistance
will be provided to the MOH to support refinement and clarification of legislation, regulations
and financing arrangements governing planning, investment in the health system, and ownership
and governance of healthcare providers.
Project Component 2 -
APL l: US$25.81 million, of which IBRD US$18.33 million
ESSENTIAL UPGRADE OF DISTRICT HOSPITALS
This Component will undertake phased implementation of an upgrade of essential secondary-
level hospital facilities, and training of hospital staff in management of emergency medical cases
in district and teaching hospitals, to complement the upgrade of emergency medical services
under Component 4.
In Phase I, investment will take place in 24 district and teaching hospitals The main focus will be
on improving the quality and clinical outcomes of emergency admissions to hospital, which has
been identified as high priority for investment because of the potential impact on avoidable
premature mortality. Current financial constraints were considered in assessing the medium- to
long- term sustainability and the economic impact of the health technology to be introduced in the
system. In district hospitals, investment will be in operating theaters and intensive care units,
based on a set of essential equipment for management of emergency admissions. As a
precondition for participation in the Project, district hospitals will ensure essential rehabilitation
of physical environment in these parts of the hospitals, in order to assure the optimal conditions
for proper installation and use of the new medical equipment.
Partners in the component will be District Public Health Authorities, District Health Insurance
Houses, District Hospitals, and selected teaching hospitals which play a critical role in the
provider network for management of emergency cases. The University of Bucharest medical
faculty will be a partner in the training of staff - both doctors and nurses from participating
departments in each hospital which receives equipment.
Phase II will roll out these measures to further hospitals. The cost of roll-out to all hospitals
would require additional resources beyond those available from the IBRD Loan and state
Government counterpart funds. Additional donor, local and private finance required for full
nation-wide roll-out, is expected to be increasingly available over the life of the Project, but some
sources of finance are more readily accessible by better-off districts. Project funds in Phase II
will therefore be targeted to lower income, higher need districts on the basis of defined criteria,
39



availability of alternative sources of investment funding and review of the district plans to be
completed under Component 1.
Project Component 3 -
APL l: US$8.04 million, of which IBRD US$5.10 million
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE DEVELOPMENT
SELECTION OF PILOT JUDETS FOR PHASE I (FOR COMPONENT 3):
The scope and complexity of reforms to primary health care and ambulatory and diagnostic services means
that it is prudent to phase implementation, because of limited implementation capacity and limited available
finance for investment in the health sector. Phased implementation will also allow for learning and
evaluation of the more challenging and innovative changes to service delivery. Phase I of the project would
support PHC development in poor and remote areas, and the piloting of initiatives to rationalize ambulatory
and diagnostic services in hospitals, and use these to support health care. These activities will take place in 6
"pilot" judets in Phase I of the Project, prior to roll-out to further judets in Phase 2.
Criteria for Selecting the 6 Phase I Pilot Judets: The Phase I pilot judets were selected by the Ministry of
Health on the basis of relatively low income per capita and relatively low health status (Botosani, Tulcea and
Harghita) and evidence of good management, per capita revenue of health insurance higher than Romanian
average and similarity of health needs to the "average" in Romania (Arges, Covasna, Dolj). Districts in the
first group are among those where highest potential health status improvements could be expected, whereas
the second group has very good preconditions for successful implementation of the proposed changes and
improvements of health service delivery. Overall, districts in Phase I have below average density of physical
and human resources in primary and secondary care, thus they are not facing major problems regarding
sustainability or the need to scale down provider units.
This component will support a global strengthening of all primary health care facilities,
equipment and staff skills, beginning in the six Phase I pilot judets, then nation-wide. Family
doctors' practices and other primary health care providers will be brought up to an appropriate
standard, and equipped with basic diagnostic and treatment equipment. Staff will be trained, with
a focus on developing skills to manage a larger range of conditions in a primary care setting, and
developing protocols and procedures for more appropriate referral to hospital, and better
discharge planning to achieve more effective hand-over of ongoing patient care to primary care
providers.
Under the current legislative framework, the MOH retains responsibility for the training of health
professionals working in primary health care, and for the next five years, it remains responsible
for investment in civil works for MOH-owned dispensaries and health centers. As well, in a
number of remoter and poorer areas of Romania, it has not been possible to recruit and retain
doctors to work in primary health care, so the service is delivered by nurses or is lacking. In
these areas, where the private sector is not willing to deliver services, the public sector (either the
District Public Health Authority or a public sector healthcare provider) must take responsibility
for developing alternative models of care to ensure access. This component will support
establishment of more effective public sector provision of primary health care in selected poor
and remote areas.
In Phase 1, this sub-component will support:
(i)   clarification and development of national policy for vocational training,
accreditation/certification and continuing medical education for family medicine doctors,
and nurses working in primary health care;
40



(ii)  a continuing medical education program for all primary health care teams (physicians and
nurses) in the five pilot judets; continuing medical education will be co-ordinated with the
dissemination of the guidelines and protocols developed under item (iv) below;
(iii) development of training centers for Family Medicine in pilot judets where these do not
already exist, to be operated with qualified trainers associated to the Departments of Family
Medicine of the Universities of Medicine;
(iv)  local adaptation of evidence-based guidelines for diagnosis/treatment/referral for the most
common conditions encountered in primary health care in Romania; development of
referral protocols for common conditions, and discharge planning procedures;
(v)  initiatives to develop of diagnostic support for primary health care through ambulatory
diagnostic centers in hospitals. The aim is also to rationalize diagnostic services where
duplication exists between services for inpatients, outpatients, and polyclinics.
Implementation will include ensuring systems are in place to communicate diagnostic test
results, specialist consultation results, and discharge reports to primary health care
providers; development of protocols, training, documentation, IS/IT, transport and
communication systems to support better integration between dispensaries and health
centers; in Botosani, a medical waste collection system with central incineration will be
established for dispensaries; these initiatives will be co-ordinated with the upgrade of
hospital diagnostic services under Component 2;
(vi) in six of the pilot judets (Arges, Botosani, Covasna, Dolj, Harghita and Tulcea) essential
equipping of primary care facilities and training of staff in poor and remote areas, which
will be rehabilitated by districts to assure appropriate conditions for effective use of new
equipment provided by the Project;
(vii) in Botosani and Tulcea, development of service to ensure access to basic primary health
care in remote areas which lack access to dispensaries staffed by doctors;
(viii) in Dolj and Tulcea, development of model practices which will test initiatives such as
guidelines, integration with secondary care, and provide training sites for other practices.
The Project will finance equipment, training, and foreign and local technical assistance. DFID
and Soros Foundation will be partners in this component in Phase I, providing parallel financing
for a large part of the technical assistance and training inputs required. Partners in the component
will be the Ministry of Health, District Public Health Authorities, District Health Insurance
Houses and the Departments of Family Medicine.
Phase II will support the next phase of roll-out of these measures to all judets, drawing upon
evaluation results of pilot initiatives in Phase I, such as new referral and discharge arrangements,
and new models for rural primary health care.
Project Component 4 -
APL l: US$22.73 million, of which IBRD US$12.90 million
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
This sub-component would support further development and extension of integrated, community-
based emergency medical services. The model for these services has been piloted in the judet of
Mures since 1992 and is operational now in other 8 districts, with staff trained in the Tirgu Mures
center and using mainly second hand specialized equipment, provided by external donors. It is
designed to shorten response time and improve quality of care for life-threatening emergencies,
thereby reducing case fatality rates and complications in cardiac emergencies and trauma. The
local partners in this sub-component are: (a) the Ministry of Health - through the District Public
Health Authorities and District Hospitals; (b) the Ministry of Interior- through the Fire
Department in each district and in Bucharest; (c) the Department of Public Local Administration
and local authorities of each district.
41



A network of emergency services will be established . using fast response vehicles and type C
ambulances (Mobile Intensive Care Units) in the district capitals, operated jointly by the District
Hospital and the local Fire Department. The network is designed to minimize response times to
attend urgent cases, with the appropriate level of ambulance and personnel. By integrating
management of emergency services across different organizational boundaries, the emergency
services strategy aims for cost-effective delivery. Dispatching services will be integrated -with the
fire services and to some extent with police, to achieve further efficiencies, and enable
introduction of a single emergency phone number, in line with EU requirements.
All of the investment in this strategy will take place in Phase I of the project, though some of the
training program is envisaged to continue during Phase 11 of the project. But within Phase I of
the Project, the roll-out of the emergency medical services strategy will be sequenced. Priority
will be given to coverage of areas around major highways, where road traffic accidents are most
frequent and mortality is high. Initially services in nine districts will be upgraded and new units
established in eleven districts. There will be 2 pilot 2 integrated first response teams in each of
four counties with the objective of further reducing response times to accidents on the major E60
highway - the highest density location of road accidents. These first response teams would be
equipped with type B ambulances (a type already used by many of the existing ambulance
services) with additional basic extrication equipment.
The next phase of the roll-out will be based on evaluation of units already functioning, the
emergency services strategy will be rolled out, with the establishment of new integrated
emergency units in 11 additional judets, plus 8 integrated units in Bucharest, and coverage of
remaining counties with first response units.
More specifically, this sub-component will finance procurement of equipment, training, civil
works and technical assistance to support establishment and/or upgrades of the following in
selected judets:
Equipment and vehicles for integrated emergency response teams in the capital city of each
selected judet. Each team, operating on type C ambulances, would include a minimum of
four persons: an emergency/intensive care doctor, a nurse and two paramedics/firefighters.
One of the paramedics would be the driver of the Mobile Intensive Care Unit (Type C
ambulance). (Note that Type B ambulances and emergency cars, that were procured under the
Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO) will formn part of the equipment required in
each judet by the emergency services network, as well as meeting the needs for non-
emergency hospital patient transport.)
*  Specialized extrication and rescue squads in the Fire Department in the capital city of each
judet. These would be complemented by first response and rescue teams in smaller towns of
each judet, using simpler Type B ambulances with extrication equipment. Each judet would
be equipped with one Advanced Mobile Medical Post containing an inflatable tent, stretchers
and materials to care for about 20-30 injured persons.
*  Integrated dispatch systems.
*  Emergency Departments and Intensive Care Units (in co-ordination with Component 2).
*  Regional training centers in University medical centers, as well as local training facilities in
each judet.
*  Public information and awareness campaigns.
The Swiss Development Corporation is a partner in this component, and will be providing
parallel financing for technical assistance and training.
42



Project Component 5 -
APL l: US$10.38 million, of which IBRD US$2.2 million
PUBLIC HEALTH AND DISEASE CONTROL
This component has two objectives: (a) establishing effective legal and regulatory basis for public
health and disease control and (b) developing a capacity to control the main causes of illnesses
and premature deaths through effective public health infrastructure and interventions. It would
include two sub-components. Emphasis would be on: capacity building through technical and
management training; upgrading of the public health infrastructure; rationalization of morbidity
and mortality codes in line with ICD 10; routine reports, surveillance and monitoring systems,
both disease and behavioral.
StrateLv Development and Capacity Building
Training, learning materials, local and external technical assistance will be provided to (a)
develop a National Strategy for Public Health, Disease Control and Health Promotion and (b)
conduct a National Health Interview Survey, including physiologic measurements. In addition,
focused behavioral surveillance of youth and adults would be done, with inclusion of modules on
knowledge, attitudes and practices - including access to and utilization of preventive health care.
It would provide targeted training in the epidemiology and control of non-communicable
diseases, as well as communicable diseases like tuberculosis, STDs and HIV/AIDS.
These activities were designed to strengthen the scientific basis and the socio-political backing
for key interventions. As a result, it concentrates on knowledge-intensive interventions with
potential high impact on health status, and demonstration sites for modernization of service
delivery for key public health problems, not merely the supply of inputs and supplies. DFID is
expected to be a partner in this area of activity.
Priority Prevention Programs
The Ministry of Health and Center for Health Promotion have identified 10 priority areas for
public health intervention over the next five to six years, on the basis of relative high contribution
to the burden of disease, together with the availability of cost-effective interventions to address
the problem. The priorities identified are: tobacco control, prevention and control of tuberculosis,
STD/HIV prevention, prevention of motor vehicle accidents, control of high blood pressure,
mental illness, alcohol and drug abuse, healthy schools, country-wide integrated non-
communicable disease prevention (CINDI), nutrition and physical exercise. In Phase I of the
project four of these priority areas have been selected, on the basis of readiness for
implementation. These are described below. Phase II will extend these initiatives on the basis of
evaluation, and tackle additional priority areas.
Tobacco Control
Aim:          Implement a comprehensive, intersectoral approach to reduce the prevalence of
tobacco use by at least 5 percent by 2005.
Approach:    Support enforcement of the anti-tobacco law (legislation), including ban on
advertising, and higher prices through carefully determined increases in tobacco
tax. Establish an effective intersectoral coalition to coordinate efforts and
promote advocacy, social marketing (health benefits, smokers' rights), public and
professional education, and accessibility to smoking cessation programs.
43



Develop a sustained effort to inform the public and NGOs about the health
impact of tobacco - and to counter the misinformation from the tobacco industry.
Partners:    MOH (Department of Public Health, National Center for Health Promotion,
District Public Health Authorities), College of Physicians, Nursing Association,
Cancer and Cardiovascular Disease Associations. Soros Foundation, Youth for
Youth, Anti-tobacco League, and World Vision.
Prevention and control of tuberculosis
Aim:         Strengthen the system of monitoring and supervision to increase patient
compliance with treatment, raise the knowledge and awareness for prevention of
at-risk groups; upgrade diagnostic testing facilities, building upon the investment
in the Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO).
Approach:    Directly Observed Therapy, Short-Course (DOTS).
Ensure effective planning, infrastructure, management and monitoring.
Develop and distribute, at district level, a protocol to improve patient
compliance, including educational materials and training workshops.
Develop infrastructure (vehicles, information resources) and train staff to
strengthen monitoring and supervision of district implementation of DOTS and
promote patient compliance, according to the protocol.
Produce and diffuse a public education campaign (TV, radio, print) targeted to
high-risk groups, in two points over a 5-year period.
Upgrade equipment in bacteriological laboratories and replace old radiological
equipment in districts which did not benefit from the Health Rehabilitation
Project.
Partners:    Institute for Lung Diseases, MOH (Department of Public Health, National Center
for Health Promotion), District Public Health Authorities, Soros Foundation.
HIV/STD Control
This sub-component would be supported within a broader reproductive health program of the
Ministry of Health.
Aim:         Develop a political coalir en in support of HIV/STD control. Create conditions
to reduce HIV incidence (with emphasis on vulnerability reduction and risk
reduction), improve care of persons living with HIV, and mitigate the social
impact of HIV/AIDS epidemic. Raise awareness and knowledge among the
population and encourage preventive behavior. Examine best practices and
develop Romania-specific approaches to influencing government policy and
individual choices, removing social constraints to safe behavior and caring for
persons with HIV/AIDS. Develop new, more acceptable health service models of
prevention and treatment of STDs.
Approach:    Pilot, evaluate and disseminate, a program to educate health professionals,
community leaders, teachers and other influential individuals to spread the
prevention message. Contingent upon a positive evaluation, the program would
44



be phased in to all districts, with the goal of reaching 90% of individuals in
high-vulnerability! high-risk groups over a seven-year period.
Strengthen and sustain, over a five-year period, a national public education
program delivered via media in close collaboration with the existing
Reproductive Health Program, with emphasis on community-based initiatives.
Conduct a knowledge and awareness population survey, prepare a social
marketing plan and educational materials to support the development and
subsequent evaluation of the preceding two stages.
Improve laboratory diagnostic facilities for STDs/AIDS and pilot new service
delivery arrangements for STD clinical prevention and treatment.
Partners: Society of Contraception and Sex Education, Association Against
AIDS, Soros Foundation, UNAIDS, UNFPA, UNICEF, district family planning
units, STD specialists, Marie Stopes, mass media.
Development of Community-Based Mental Health Services
Aim:          To support implementation of the forthcoming new Mental Health Law,
compatible with EU and other international requirements for protection of human
rights; to develop a model of community-based mental health services to provide
more humane, effective and socially-integrated options for diagnosis and care of
people with mental illness, offering an alternative to current reliance on inpatient
treatment in psychiatric hospitals.
Approach:    Disseminate information and provide training regarding the provisions of the new
law, and modern models of mental health service delivery; develop a
demonstration site in Bucharest for a community-based model of mental health
services for a defined catchment area, based on a community mental health
center, with day care services and linkages to a crisis unit, a mobile crisis team,
as well as inpatient facilities for appropriate cases; pilot early detection and
intervention for psychoses as well as support of care and rehabilitation for
patients with psychoses after discharge from acute inpatient services; establish
multi-disciplinary team-work within the demonstration site through training of
staff and re-organization of responsibilities.
Partners:     MOH (Department of Public Health), Obregia Psychiatric Hospital, Romanian
Psychiatric Association, Romanian League for Mental Health, WHO.
45



Project Component 6 -
APL 1: US$0.96 million, of which IBRD US$0.30 million
PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
This component would provide technical assistance, training, limited civil works and equipment,
as well as incremental operating expenses for project coordination, management, monitoring and
evaluation.
A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established, with overall responsibility for the
Project. The PMU would be located in the MOH, under the jurisdiction of the Minister of
Health. The Minister of Health will issue a Ministerial Order establishing implementation
responsibilities of directorates within the Ministry of Health and other health sector organizations.
The core staff/consultants of the PMU would include a Project Director, a Procurement
Specialist, a Procurement Assistant, an Accountant, a Primary Health Care/Public Health Adviser
(who would co-ordinate Components 3 and 5) and a Hospital Planning and Management Adviser
(who would co-ordinate Components 1, 2 and 4). All procurement and disbursement under the
project will be carried out centrally by the PMU, drawing on information supplied by the day-to-
day implementing agencies.
Each of the main components would have a designated agency responsible for day-to-day
implementation, supervised by the PMU.
Each of the six Phase I pilot judets will establish local project management capacity to co-
ordinate judet activities. The DPHA in each judet, will engage a full-time project manager and a
part-time accountant. Similarly, other implementing agencies listed for each component or sub-
component in the table below will engage a full time project manager. The project managers in
the implementing agencies will be responsible for driving implementation locally. They will be
responsible for developing, monitoring and updating a detailed implementation plan and
timetable for their component. They will liaise with the PMU over procurement, disbursement
and project reporting.
For most components and sub-components, it will be appropriate to have a taskforce or
consultative group of key-stakeholders. The groups will meet regularly to agree upon actions
required and resolve obstacles to implementation progress.
All the eligible specialists and the support staff employed to carry out tasks directly related to the
Project, would be remunerated from counterpart funds under the Project. Expertise that cannot be
provided by employed staff, can be contracted with local or foreign consultants, using Project
funds, according to applicable Romanian legislation and Bank guidelines on procurement.
46



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
3.1    Program Cost: The overall five-year Health Sector Reform Program is estimated to cost
about US$112 million equivalent, including contingencies and taxes. The Health Reform
Program will be implemented in two phases (Phase I - calendar 2000-2003 and Phase II -
calendar 2003-2005). Each phase will be funded by the Bank through an Adaptable Program
Loan (APL). Phase I will be co-financed by the Government, the Bank, two bilateral donor,
Soros Foundation and universities. Phase II is expected to be co-financed by the Government, the
Bank, and other donors still to be identified. The expected cost and sources of financing of the
Project by components are shown in the tables below.
3.2    APL 1: The total cost of Phase 1, including contingencies and taxes, which is co-
financed by the Bank under APLI is estimated at about US$69.8 million equivalent. All Project-
related expenditures will be subject to local taxes and duties, with the exception of foreign
consultant services and training costs. The foreign cost component of Phase I is estimated at
US$40.66 million equivalent or about 39 percent of the total Phase I cost. The total local cost
component is about US$29.18 million of which about US$15.051 million comprise local taxes.
The Bank Loan of US$40.0 million equivalent will finance about 74% of total project cost net of
taxes. Details of the Project cost under Phase 1, APLI are shown in Table A and Table B below.
3.3    Basis of Cost Estimates. Project cost estimates are based on surveys of the costs of
similar works, goods and services as of December 1999. All Project costs have been estimated in
US dollars given the large differential in price escalation rates between the local and foreign
exchange cost components The costs of all Bank-financed project inputs have been estimated
with a price contingency of 2.2 percent per year from 2000 to 2002, none have been provided for
Government and Donor-financed inputs. Physical contingencies of 10 percent of base costs have
been provided for all Bank financed expenditure categories, no physical contingencies were
provided for Government and Donor-financed expenditures. The fees of specialized personnel
services are based on current market rates for such services in order to ensure that well qualified
personnel are recruited to manage the Health Sector Reform Program. The following estimates
have been used in price calculations of the foreign exchange (direct and indirect) component:
medical and other equipment - 70 percent; vehicles - 50 percent; foreign consultant services - 70
percent; local consultant services - 0 percent; training costs - 100 percent for studies abroad; and
0 percent for training in-country; and operating costs - 10 percent. Consultant services (local and
foreign experts) as well as training are tax exempt. Aggregate taxes (customs and VAT) on
vehicles are estimated at 50 percent of the CIF cost. Aggregate taxes (customs and VAT) on
medical and other equipment are estimated at 30 percent of the CIF cost. Recurrent expenditure
items such as supplies, materials, and maintenance services and locally procured goods are
subject to value-added taxes (VAT) of 19 percent.
47



Table A: Expenditure Accounts By Components
US$millions
Plannin &      District     Prim. Health Care Emg Me       Pubilc   Proi. Adm. &
Regulation     Hospitals    Develop.         Services      Heaith   Iml. Mgt       Total
1. Goods and Equipment
a. Ambulances, EMS and Other Vehicles                                                               18.01                              18.01
b. Medical and Diagnostic Equipment                                   23.83            6.36 -.67                                      31.86
c. Office and Training Equipment                         0.22                          0.27  -                               0.0        0.56
d. IT and Communications Equipment                                                                   1.34 -                             1.34
= ___ .___f. GOR-Fhan         ors                                                                      .4._ _4-8
-Subtotal Goods ana tquipment                                          0.22         23836.6S3                     19.35     6.35           0
2. Specialized Technical Services/1                                                                                           1.0    -
3. Ban & GOR-Financed Technical Assistance
la. Consultant Services
oc  ;onsul ant services                   0                                    -                1                        1 72
_________                    reign-Consuna t a ervices                                                                                     0. 6 .0.74
__Subtotal Consultant Services                           0.73__1.640.09                                                                 2.4
___________  b. Staff Training                                                                                                                  __
oca  raining, semin rs ana                 0.4 -                                       0.30      0.4           0.16      1.26
Feilows ips anr Oiher I raining            0.17.                                            -                             0 37
__________   3Subtotal Staff Training        -                          57 -                                        0.3      0             0.16      1.63
_ Subtotal Bank-F manced Technical Assistance                              1.3                                              
_  4. Donor Financed Technir;al Assistance
__________ . a. Consultant Services NBF                                                    ._
[Local consultant ervices                                                  .            0.20       04 -                     47
_ __________   ____________  oreign tonsuitant bervices                 0.3 -.4b0                                  030      08                       1.0
Subtotal Consultant Services NBF                          0.3                          0.63          0.50      0;12 -
___________    b. Staff Training NBF                                                                         _                    _   _.
_ocai iraining -                            0.1 _        T5               o4 o     18                                      0. o7
I raining Aoroaa                                              - .                                                            0
--Subtotal Stat Training NB-                                                      _                  02          0.          0  Z            0
Subtotal Non-Bank Financed Technical Assistance                         0.4 0--   -t~                               0.5      0.30 -        02 25
tal nvestment Costs               115 23                                                                            .     98 7. 2 0                0.32 *63 79
11.-Recurrent Costs                i ]                                                                             _
-A. FIRST PHAZSE - APL1         |._
11. Non-Salary Operational Costs                                                                                              4 ,  - -1  -  -:6 I      64
=_   12. EquipmenVVehicles OhM Costs                                                        1.83 -                               2.58                       4 41
T6(al keturrent Costs   _          _                                            0           1.83            0.51          2.                                6.05
Toa  roecT costs                                                                           - 258 03 273                                            Ct.97    6984
Note / includes spedalized technical services financed by Bank, donors and GO                        ._     _
48



Table B: Components by Financiers (APLI Only)
US $millions
Romani          18RD            DFID           Swiss           Soros              University    Total
a
Amount   %    Amount  %    Amount   %   Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount  %
A. APLJ
1. Planning & Regulation         0.35   18.1     1.17   61.1     0.40   20.8                                       -      -     1.92   2.7
2. District Hospitals            7.33   29.0    18.33   71.0        -     -        -      -         -     -     0.15    0.6    25.81  36.8
3. Primary Health Care           2.04   26.3     5.10  63.4      0.50   6.1        -      -      0.40   4.9         -     -     8.04  11.5
Development
4. Emergency Medical Services    9.33   41.8    12.90   56.8        -     -    0.50    2.2          -     -         -     -    22.73  32.6
5. Public Health                 7.88   75.9     2.20   21.4        -     -        -             0.30   2.9         -     -    10.38  14.8
6. Project Administration and    0.67   69.1     0.30   30.9           -       -          -         -     -         -     -     0.96   1.5
Implementation Management            _                                       _                   _
Total Disbursement                 27.58   39.5    40.00   56.6     0.90    1.3    0.50    0.7     0.70    1.0     0.15    0.2    69.84 100.
0
49



Annex 4: Summary Cost-Effectiveness and Cost-Benefit Analyses
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Background
1. The detailed background information on which this section is derived from analytical work
undertaken concurrently with project preparation. It is summarized in the main text of the Project
Appraisal Document and in considerable detail in the Romania Health Sector Support Strategy
(Document of The World Bank, Number 1841 0-RO, of June 22, 1999).
2. An examination of the prevalent burden of disease in Romania and inefficiencies in the health care
system made it possible to identify: (a) potential gains in health status, as measured by gains in Disability
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs)l; and (b) potential gains in efficiency of the health care system. More
specifically:
*  There is much disease and its ill effects that could be prevented by reducing smoking prevalence
levels and "healthier lifestyles" (better diet and more exercise);
*  Hospital lengths of stay are too long;
*  Out-patient health care services at the non-hospital level are in a particular need of improvement;
*  There is very little coordination among levels of care; and
*  Infectious diseases such as tuberculosis can become an even more important burden of disease if
effective measures are not targeted towards controlling them.
3. Cost-effectiveness analysis (which is measured in terms of DALYs gained per dollar of investment,
and does not require putting a monetary value on human life) was used to examine alternative approaches
to achieving a common objective of gains in DALYs. Spreadsheets outlining the associated cost-
effectiveness and cost-benefit analysis is constructed are included as Annex 4 Tables A, B and C,
accompanying this text.
The Investment
4. For the purpose of these analyses, the following "hypothetical" loan could be illustrative of how
beneficial an investment would be. This loan would have the following clusters of inputs:
*  components 1 (Planning and Regulation), 2 (District Hospitals), and 3 (Primary Health Care) address
improvements to the health care system;
*  component 4 that involves setting up an emergency medical service network (including but not
limited to communication and transportation improvements); and
*  components 5 (Strategy Development and Capacity Building and Priority Interventions) which are
public health focused and would involve measuring and reducing the impact of risky behaviors such
as smoking or unprotected sexual activity and controlling infectious diseases.
5. For these stylized estimations, the investment is assumed to be US$59,592,000 (in 1999 US dollars).
A larger investment would involve economies of scale and thus give proportionately larger yields, given
the high percentage of fixed costs and the expected reductions in the average variable cost per unit of
output. In working through these estimates, considerable judgement had to be exercised in the face of
uncertainties in the final size and phasing of the investment. Table A shows the approximate breakdown
of each cluster of sub-components under the Project Cost column2.
50



General Benefits of The Investment
6. The annual results column in Table A outlines what potential cost or life saving (or disability
avoiding) effects would result from the investment spent from the outlined prospective loan. For
components 1, 2, and 3, the cost saving effects would result from both a reduction in the utilization of
"high cost" hospital interventions such as coronary artery bypass surgery and a decrease in lengths of stay
for high demand hospitalizations. Estimates of the benefits of the loan for all sub-components are
indicative in nature and are not meant to capture all the potential benefits3. Table A indicates that even
when only some of the potential benefits are incorporated into a cost-benefit analysis, a positive net
present value can be expected using a discount rate of 5 percent and assuming the savings from the loan
are approximately the same every year for twenty years. In addition, the cost savings and death/disability
avoiding effects of a loan are only captured from those areas in which the loan is expected to operate
except in the case of public health interventions where the entire country is expected to benefit.
Benefitsfrom thze cluster of Components 1, 2, and 3
7. The cost savings from the reduction in "high cost" hospitalizations such as coronary artery bypass
surgery is calculated by estimating that the loan would cause a reduction in the annual number of "high
cost" hospitalizations by 8 percent for ischemic heart disease related interventions such as coronary artery
bypass surgery or utilization of thrombolytic drugs at the Cardiovascular Clinic/University hospital; and a
3 percent reduction in the use of peritoneal dialysis for diabetes induced kidney failure. The cost savings
reduction is calculated via the following formula used in Table A:
A= Expected Number of "High Cost" Cases (only incorporating those cases from areas in which loan
is expected to be active)
B= % Reduction in "High Cost" Cases due to effects of loan
C= Cost per "High Cost" Case
D= Cost per "Routine" Hospitalization For Same Disease4
E= Cost Savings From Reduction In High Cost Hospitalization To "Routine" Hospitalization
E = A * B * (C-D)
8. There would also be expected cost savings benefit from a reduction in the lengths of stay for high
demand hospitalizations. As can be seen in Table B outlining the number of cases and cost per case for
"routine" high demand hospitalizations. Again the number of cases is an estimate of the numbers of cases
expected in the districts to be covered by the investment5. The total cost savings from a reduction in
lengths of stay due to improvements in efficiency as a result of the loan is estimated to be 25 percent;
however, this would not translate into a 25 percent savings per case as. the greatest percentage of
hospitalization episode costs are in the first few days of hospitalization which would be immune from any
reduction in lengths of stay. It is then estimated that a 25 percent reduction in lengths of stay is
equivalent to a 6 percent reduction in costs per case. It is noted that there is no gain in reducing mortality
or morbidity from components 1, 2, and 3. A reduction in lengths of stay does not equal a Disability
Adjust Life Year (DALY) gain. However, there would probably be DALY gains from a reduction of
"high cost" hospitalizations to "routine" hospitalizations, assuming that the patient has a more favorable
disease course (see note 3).
51



Benefits from Component 4
9. Component 4 is designed to improve the emergency response in select districts. No cost-savings
benefits were included, but a reduction in "high cost" hospitalizations (see discussion above) could be
expected. Nonetheless, the greatest gain is from a reduction in DALYs from trauma and heart disease
(predominantly ischemic heart disease). In the presented case, it is assumed that there would be a 2.5
percent reduction in deaths and disability in the population where this sub-components would be active.
Benefitsfrom Component 5
1 0. The benefits from the public health portion of the investment would result in both a cost savings and a
reduction in lost DALYs. The reduction in lost DALYs is calculated by assuming that 2 percent of
smoking and diet related DALYs from the following disorders would be avoided by component 5: cardio-
vascular diseases, cerebro-vascular diseases, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and lung
cancer. Because component 5 have a program to reduce the impact of tuberculosis, it was also modeled
that there would be a 2 percent reduction in Tuberculosis related DALYs as well.
1l. The cost savings of components 5 are a result of a 2 percent reduction in patients needing outlined
"high cost" interventions (from a nationwide estimate of the numbers of "high cost" cases). This 2
percent reduction is absolute and assumes that the patient would not need "routine" hospitalization, but no
hospitalization at all since they would not have the target disease as a result of component 5 (outlined in
Table A). The same holds true for Table B where there would be a cost savings from a 2 percent
reduction in the number of cases for certain smoking and diet related disorders (and tuberculosis)6.
Annex 4. Table A. DALYs Gained and Annual Savings
Annual     DA s
intervention      InetetAnnual ~Result                        Savins      Gie
(US S                                     (1JS$)
Components 1, 2, 3     37,832,197    Reduction in Use of "High       78,672
Cost" Hospital Interventions
to "Routine" Hospitalization
Reduction in LOS of High     2,265,429      -
Demand Hospitalizations
Component 4            16,548,751    2.5% Reduction in deaths and    -        21,026
disability from trauma and
heart disease
Component 5             5,211,052    2.0% Reduction in deaths and              17,302
disability from cardio-
vascular, cerebro-vascular,
COPD and lung cancer
(associated with
diet/smoking), and
tuberculosis
2.0% Reduction in associated    3,265,308
high cost interventions and
high demand interventions
52



Investment                       ~~~Annual    DALYs
Intervention          (US $)             Annual Result           Savings      Gained
(US   $)    __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _    ([3s$)     Gained_
associated with cardio-
vascular, cerebro-vascular,
COPD, lung cancer and
tuberculosis
TOTAL                   59,592,000                                    5,609,408    38,327
Net Present Value of Costs                                       $51.600,435
(5% discount rate for 5 years of the Loan)
Net Present Value of Benefits                                    $69,905,622
(5% discount rate for 20-year estimates benefit of the Loan)
Benefit to Cost Ratio                                                135%
(Note: It is assumed that Loan is dispersed over 5 years in equal amounts per year.)
Annex 4. Table B. Most Demanded "Routine" Hospital Services:
Reduction in Costs from Decreasing ALOS at Non-Specialized ("High-Cost") Hospitals
Total Cost    Total Cost
Cost             %        %      Savings from    Savings From
Target Disease    Inter-    Number  per case  LOS   Reduct-  Savings    LOS        Public Health
vention   of Cases  (US$)          ion in  in Costs    Reduction    Interventions
LOS                 (USS)         (US$)
Abortion      abortion    101,86    45     2.00    25%       6%        284,908
with local   2
anesthe-
sia
Essential     antihyp-    17,546    62     4.60    25%       6%        67,942        179,830
Hyperten-     ertension
Sion          drugs
Chronic       beta-      17,546    148    5.33    25%        6%        162,571       430,295
Ischemic Heart  blockers
Disease
Chronic       antibiotics   74,200  46     9.91    25%       6%        214,466       567,652
Obstruct-     & bronco-
ive Pulmonary  dilators
Disease
Chronic       lab        19,388     98     4.95    25%       6%        118,830
Hepatitis     analysis
Tubercu-      chemo-     34,849    258    67.2    25%        6%        560,986      1,484,827
Losis         therapy                        0
Insulin       insulin    40,984     14     3.10    25%       6%        35,847      _
53



Total Cost     Total Cost
Cost              %        %       Savings from    Savings From
Target Disease    Inter-    Number  per case   LOS   Reduct-  Savings        LOS        Public Health
vention    of Cases   (US$)          ion in   in Costs    Reduction     Interventions
LOS                  (US$)          (US$)
Depend-
ant Diabetes
Mellitus
Bone Fracture   orthoped-    37,636    92     15.8    25%        6%         216,075
ic surgery                      0
Bronchitis/pne   antibiotics   16,608  78     14.0    25%        6%         81,233
umo-                                            4
Nia
Cerebro-       support-    33,685      50     4.80    25%        6%         104,734        277,211
vascular       ive therapy
Accident
Hepatitis A    vitamins,    19,388    105    11.8    25%         6%         127,175
trophic                         0
drugs
Alcohol-       anti-       14,018     126    24.0    25%         6%         110,178
Ism            alcoholic                        0
drugs
Depress-       antide-     18,342      50     6.41    25%        6%         57,612
Ion            pression
drugs
Acute          surgery     16,340     120      5.90    25%       6%         122,871
Appendi-
Citis
TOTAL          7__1_ :              _ _   _          :          _          2,265,429      2,939,814
54



Annex 4. Table C. Selected High Costs Intervention-
and Cost Savings From Their Reduction
Cost Savings    2.0%
Cost per   Reduct-    Cost of     From       Reduction
Diagnostic    Intervent-   Seffing    # of   per       ion to    "Routine   Reduction to   from Public
ion                Cases   episode   "Routine   Hospital-   "Routine"    Health
1998    Hospital-  ization"    Hospital-    Intervent-
(US$)   ization"    (US$)   ization (US$)      ions
(US$)
Ischemic       Coronary    Cardio-   318    1,443         8%        148        30,904        9,183
Heart Disease   Artery      vascular
Bypass      Clinic-
Univer-
sity
Hosp
Acute MI/      Three        Cardio-   212    1,175        8%        148        16,339        4,985
unstable       week         vascular
angina         thrombo-    Clinic-
lyis drugs    Univer-
sity
Hosp
Acute renal    One-year    Diabe-    149    8,471         3%         14        31,428       25,184
failure        pertiton-    tes
eal dialysis  Clinic-
Univer-
sity
Hosp
TOTAL          _      _     _         _      _         _     _                 78,672       325,494
Notes:
I  A frequently used measure of the burden of disease is the disability adjusted life year (DALY). It is a
composite measure of death and disability, combining the time lived with disability and the time lost due
to premature mortality. As such, the DALY represents an attempt to combine in a single indicator the
impact of disease on mortality, morbidity and disability (Murray and Lopez, 1996).
2  The costs of managing the investment are built into the sub-component costs based the relative
monetary value of each sub-component as compared to the total loan costs (minus costs of managing the
loan).
3   In fact, the cost savings of the loan are derived from 1998 United States Dollar estimates; yet the cost
of the loan is in 1999 dollars. This tends to provide an even more conservative cost-benefit analysis.
55



4 Cost of "routine" hospitalization is derived from Table B spreadsheet and is for an intervention which
would be offered at a district or similar hospital, and would be for the same disease process, but less
severe case since the patient's overall course would be improved due to a better health care system as a
result of the Loan.
S  The numbers of expected cases was calculated using the ratio of the target population for the
investment divided by the population of Romania times an annual estimate of the number expected cases
nationwide. The annual estimate of the number of cases nationwide is calculated by multiplying the
annual number of reported cases at a surveyed district hospital per hospital bed by the number of hospital
beds nationwide that would be expected to receive that type of case.
6 The last column in Annex 4a and 4b relates to component 5.
56



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Not applicable.
57



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Procurement
I.    This section describes the procurement arrangements under the First Adjustable Program Loan
(APL) in the amount of US$40.0 million equivalent, in support of the Health Sector Reform Program.
Bank-financed Goods contracts under the project will be procured in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under lBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised in January
1999 (henceforth referred to as Procurement Guidelines), Bank-financed contracts for Consulting
Services required for the Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in January 1999
(henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and procurement contracts not
financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the national regulations or the co-financing
institutions' procurement regulations. The project inputs, estimated costs and procurement methods under
APL>I are summarized in Table Al. The project Procurement Plan is shown in Table A2. Other
procurement information, including prior review thresholds for Bank-financed procurement contracts, and
a summary assessment of the procurement capacity of the coordinating and implementing agencies and
the Bank's review processes is presented in Table B (Sections I through 4). For procurement under the
Loan, the Borrower would use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents (SBD), Standard Form of
Consulting Contracts and Requests for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid Evaluation Report Forms.
Notification of Business Opportunities/Advertisement:
2.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the June 30, 2000 issue of
Development Business announcing goods and consultants services to be procured and inviting interested
eligible suppliers, contractors and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information from the Borrower. The GPN will be updated annually thereafter for all outstanding
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, and consulting assignments by
Shortlist. Specific Procurement Notices will be published at a later date. For goods to be procured
through ICB, individual bidding opportunities would also be advertised in a major local newspaper thirty
(30) days prior to availability of bidding documents and transmitted to potential bidders who expressed
interest in bidding in response to the published GPN. The local advertisement procedure would be
repeated for all bidding packages utilizing ICB (at least 30 days in advance of availability of the bidding
documents). The local advertisements would be in the English language and at the option of the
Borrower, also in Romanian. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000, Specific Procurement
Notices/Requests for Expressions of Interest will be advertised in the Development Business and in a
major national newspaper (in the national and English languages). Contracts procured under National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be advertised in a national paper at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the availability of the bidding documents.
Implementation/Procurement Management:
3.    The Ministry of Health has designated the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the recently
completed Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3409-RO) as the institution responsible for managing the
implementation of the Health Sector Reform Project, including procurement. The current PMU
accumulated substantial experience under the first Health Project (Loan 3409-RO for US$150 million). A
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PMU has been done, and a "High" risk rating for procurement is
given for the reasons explained. Past experience with the frequent turnover of key PMU and project staff,
not to mention changes in the senior MOH management which impact on PMU's effectiveness, tempers a
more favorable risk assessment at this time. If satisfactory procurement management performance is
58



noted at the end of the first year of implementation, the revision of the rating to "Average" will be
considered.
4.     The PMU has five incumbent senior staff with experience implementing Bank-financed operations,
and all of whom are familiar with Bank procurement procedures and documentation. They have been
dealing with procurement and contract management in one capacity or another. The Project Director and
the Project Financial Officer (PFO) have been with the Unit for more than five years, the Senior
Procurement Officer (SPO) for three years, and the Junior Procurement Officer (JPO) and the ITIMIS
Specialist for two years. The PMU Director, SPO and PFO have received training in ILO/Turin on
procurement. All PMU staff have benefited from procurement workshops conducted by an expatriate
consultant procurement specialist (including an intensive training session in Bucharest last year by visiting
Bank procurement specialists). To further strengthen procurement capacity in the PMU, it is recommended
that support personnel be recruited to assist the Procurement Officers on a full-time basis. The PMU also is
able to count upon the assistance of technical experts of the Directorate of Medical Services and the
Emergency Medical Services (EMS) in matters related to the drafting/preparation of medicalhospital
equipment and EMS vehicle specifications, as well as bid evaluation. The Implementing Units of each
project components will be involved in procurement and implementation activity. Specifically, these Units
will assist in the preparation of equipment lists and specifications, terms of reference for consultant services
and training, technical evaluation of proposals, and the monitoring/acceptance of works, goods and services
delivered to recipient institutions. A series of workshops, initiated by the Project Launch Seminar scheduled
around August 2000, will be the vehicle for training these Units on Bank procurement procedures and
documentation under the project. As necessary, a consultant procurement expert will also be recruited (4
staff months) to set up a training program for both PMU and selected Implementing Unit staff, and to assist
in prepare the bidding/request for proposal documents. In anticipation of the start of project
implementation, the PMU and Implementing Units are drafting complete bidding documents and technical
specifications (for medical equipment and ambulances), as well as Request for Proposals and Terms of
Reference for consultant services, for procurement activities under Year One of the project. Consultations
between PMU and Bank operational staff on these preparations are ongoing.
Scope of Procurement under APL1
5.     Procurement under the Project includes the acquisition, delivery and installation of goods and
services during the three-year implementation period of Phase I (APLI). Specifically, these expenditure
items comprise the following:
(a) Goods consist of medical/hospital equipment, communications equipment for emergency
medical services, miscellaneous office equipment; vehicles/ambulances for emergency medical
services and IT and communications equipment for the emergency services.
(b) Specialized Technical Services (STS) consist of contracts for the implementation of media
campaigns, promotions and information dissemination programs. One group of STS contracts is
financed by the Bank loan. A second group of STS contracts is financed exclusively by the
Government.;
(c) Consultant services (provided by firms and individual consultants) including preparation of
studies and surveys, design of health promotion and media campaign programs, audit, project
management assistance; and training in-country and abroad; and
(d) other expenditure items including salary and non-salary operational and maintenance costs.
59



6.    The procedures for the procurement of the above items are described in the succeeding
paragraphs. The Procurement Arrangements under the Project and the Procurement Plan are shown in
Table AI and Table A2, respectively.
Goods
7.    International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods including medical and related equipment,
communications, and vehicles which are estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract
will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. The total value of goods and vehicles procured through ICB will account for
about 98 percent (US$49.9 million out of US$5 1.5 million) of the total goods value financed by the Bank.
Medical and other equipment procured through ICB are estimated at an aggregate US$30.9 million
equivalent. Contracts for vehicles and ambulances procured through ICB are estimated at an aggregate
value US$17.8 million equivalent. In the comparison of bids for equipment and vehicles to be procured
through ICB, domestic preference would apply (some medical equipment and vehicles are manufactured
in Romania). Bid documentation for ICB will be prepared in accordance with the Bank SBD for the
Procurement of Goods revised March 2000.
8.    Direct Contracting (DC). Procedures for DC will be used for the procurement of goods that are
proprietary in nature such as software, training materials, etc.
9.    International Shopping (IS). Procedures for IS will be used for contracts for off-the-shelf
equipment estimated to cost less than US$] 00,000 where the cost of ICB will clearly outweigh price
advantages. The aggregate value of IS contracts is estimated at US$800,000 equivalent. International
shopping procedures will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from two different countries in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
10.   National Shopping (NS). Information and publication materials, as well as minor sundry items
not exceeding US$25,000 per contract may be purchased on the basis of prudent National Shopping by
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers, in accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. The aggregate value of NS is estimated at less than US$400,000 equivalent.
Specialized Technical Services (STS)
11.   A separate category is set aside to designate specialized technical services to be provided by firms
and/or institutions for the delivery of promotional, information dissemination and media campaign
programs. Such Bank-financed STS contracts up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$400,000
equivalent including contingencies, net of taxes will be procured in accordance with the National
Competitive Bidding procedures described paras 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bank Procurement Guidelines, with
contracts awarded to the lowest evaluated bids.
Consulting Services and Training
12.   Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged to combine related skills and services, in
order to make them attractive and expand competition. To the extent practicable, training activities would
be incorporated with consulting services contracts. Consultant services consist of short- and long-term
assignments to be contracted to firms and/or individuals (local and/or foreign or jointly) depending on the
nature and duration of the assignments. Selection procedures will be generally be through competition
among qualified short-listed consultants. The short lists for consultant services contracts with firms shall
comprise three to six firms with a wide geographic spread, and with no more than two firms from any one
eligible country. The consultants' short list may comprise entirely national consultants for consulting
assignments that are estimated to cost below US$100,000. The procurement of consultant services
60



contracts financed under the Loan will be in accordance with the provisions of the Bank Consultant
Guidelines. The Bank Standard Request for Proposals, Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and
revised July 1999, as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for Consultant Services (July 1998)
will be used accordingly. Bank financed consultant services and training contracts are estimated at an
aggregate value of US$ 1.9 million equivalent including contingencies. For consulting assignments
exceeding US$200,000, expressions of interest will be obtained by advertisement in the Development
Business, supplemented with notices issued in the national press. Notices for contracts less than
US$200,000 will be published in the national press following the issuance of annual GPNs.
13.   The following procurement procedures will be used for Bank-financed consultant services:
(a) Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section II, paras 2.1 to
2.28 of the Consultant Guidelines, would be used for the procurement of consultant services for:
development of health care delivery and service plans; investment financing and dissemination of
practice guidelines in primary care; public health interventions including strategy reviews and
policy development, health surveys, health promotion - tobacco and TB, school health education;
and capacity building in program management including data processing, monitoring and
evaluation.
(b) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be used for selection of an auditor to carry out
audit of the Financial Statements of the Project. Request for Proposals for audit contracts will be
issued annually.
(c) Individual Consultants (IC) Many specialized activities under the project, and the decentralized
nature of the interventions, would be best served through the recruitment of individual consultants
(both foreign and Romanian nationals) to assist the Component Implementing Units as well as the
PMU. Such individual specialists include fixed-term positions (non-public sector staff) of up to 3
years duration, as well as specific skills in many areas of expertise which would be needed for
short periods of time at scattered intervals, and which would be impractical to package with the
assignments for consulting firms described above. These individual experts will be contracted in
accordance with the procedures described in Section V, paras 5.1 to 5.3 of the Bank Consultant
Guidelines.
(d) Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifcations (CQ). for the design and conceptualization of
specialized technical services for the delivery of health promotion and media campaign programs
under the Public Health component of the Project would be procured under contracts in accordance
with CQ procedures as provided for under para 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines
Training Programs
14.    Training is an integral element of the project's capacity building objectives. The Loan will
finance training programs including short-term fellowships, international study tours and local training (in
Romania) of health sector and other eligible personnel through periodic seminars, workshops and
conferences. Such training programs would be organized by MOH institutional units/component
implementing institutions, research institutes, including non-governmental institutions (NGO).
Participation of NGOs would be in accordance with the provisions of Section III, para 3.14 of the
Consultant Guidelines. The total cost of Bank-financed training programs is estimated at an aggregate
US$620,000 equivalent. The topics covered under these training programs and the participants/target
audience are widely varied. Expenditures related to such training prograrns include: (a) for training in
Romania - trainer fees, per diems of training participants (transportation, lodging and subsistence);
organizational costs of training, training materials and handouts, etc. The local training venues could be
61



selected major health facilities (e.g. district hospitals), or training/conference centers. Trainees are
expected to converge in these training loci coming from their localities and would be lodged for the
duration of the workshops/seminars; and (b) for fellowships and study tours abroad - training fees and
costs charged by the training institution, learning/course materials, international travel and visa costs, per
diems (lodging and subsistence costs), and course-related tours. Specialists that would design, conduct
and/or manage the training programs would be contracted as short-term consultants in accordance with
the relevant procedures described above in paras. 13-14. Specifically, for training programs:
(a) Seminars and Workshops. The Ministry of Health (MOH) would develop and submit for the
Bank's prior review, an initial program for carrying out the in-country training workshops,
seminars and conferences. This training plan would include: the content, identification of the
training participants/audience, cost estimates of the inputs, and the training schedule/timing.
Expenditure items for carrying out the in-country workshops would be supported by Statements of
Expenditures (SOE). The status of the training plan would be included as part of the quarterly
progress reports, and would be updated or modified as may be mutually agreed between the MOH
and the Bank.
(b) Fellowships and Study Tours Abroad. The MOH would develop an initial plan for fellowships
and study tours conducted outside of Romania and submit this to the Bank for prior review. The
training plan for Study Tours will include: the purpose, names and titles/positions of the
participants, itinerary and estimated costs. For Fellowships Training, information would include:
names and qualifications of the candidates, course of study and duration, proposed training
institution, and the costs. Fellowships and Study Tours would norrnally be limited to short-terrn
tours and training programs (about four weeks for study tours and three months for fellowships).
Expenditure items for tours and training abroad would be supported by SOEs. The status of the
training plan would be included as part of the quarterly progress reports, and would be updated
and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the MOH and the Bank
15.   Other project-related consultant services and training (estimated at US$1.8 million equivalent)
financed exclusively by the Borrower would be procured according to the Borrower's procedures.
Training and consultant services contracts financed by other identified parallel financing sources
(estimated at US$2.25 million equivalent including contingencies net of taxes), would be
contracted/procured according to procedures agreed between the Borrower and the parallel financiers.
Recurrent Costs
16.   Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project include the day-to-day operational costs for
consumables, as well as salaries of additional national personnel for carrying out the project, as well as
the incremental costs of operating and maintaining the equipment provided under the project. These
recurrent cost items and operating requirements are estimated at US$6.0 million equivalent including
contingencies and taxes, and will be planned for and executed on the basis of annual budgets. Financing
of incremental recurrent costs will be borne fully by the Government and will not financed by the Bank
Loan. Procurement of the related expenditure items and services would be in accordance with normal
Government practice.
Prior review thresholds:
17.    The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (for goods procurement) and Request for Proposal
documents (for the procurement of consultant services) will be used for all procurement financed by the
Bank. The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation will cover the following: (a) master lists of
equipment, schedules of requirements and technical specifications (b) packaging of bids and updated cost
62



estimates; (c) terms of reference for all consulting assignments; (d) bidding documents for goods and
Specialized Technical Services contracts including Invitation to Bid, Instructions to Bidders and Data
Sheet, General and Special Conditions of Contract; Bid Proposal Forms; (e) Request for Proposal
Documents for consultant services including Letter of Invitation, Instructions to Consultants, General and
Special Conditions of Contract, and Proposal Forms; (f) Shortlists of Consultants; and (g) technical and
financial evaluation reports, recommendations for award, and draft contract agreements before awards
and signing of procurement contracts. With respect to prior review of goods contracts and of consultant
contracts, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the respective Guidelines shall
apply. It is estimated that this prior review will cover more than 90 percent of the value of all contracts
combined for goods and services financed by the Bank Loan. Progress of procurement activities will be
monitored by the PMU. Periodic reports on procurement progress, including variations in schedule, will
be submitted to the Bank on a regular basis.
18.    Full documentation should be submitted for the Bank's prior review of the following procurement
contracts. All other contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews. One in five contracts will
be subject to selective post award reviews, in accordance with the procedures described in Appendix 1,
para 4 of the Procurement and Consultant Guidelines:
(a) all goods contracts awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(b)  all Specialized Technical Services contracts awarded through National Competitive Bidding
(c)  all goods contracts awarded through Direct Contracting
(d) the first two International Shopping contracts
(e)  the first two National Shopping contracts
(f)  all consulting contracts over US$100,000 with firms
(g)  all consulting contracts over US$50,000 with individual consultants.
(h)  Annual Training Plans
(i)  Terms of reference for all other consultant contracts
63



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
ICB  NCB  IS   NS   DC   CS   NBF  Total
A. FIRST PHASE - APLI
1. Goods and Equipment
a. Office Equipment la                               -       -       -    0.40    0.15        -        -     0.55
(0.31)  (0.12)                   (0.42)
b. IT and Communications Equipment /b             1.10       -       -       -    0.24        -        -     1.34
(0.85)                         (0.19)                     (1.03)
c. Hospital and Other Medical Equipment          30.95       -    0.80        -       -       -    4.55    36.30
(23.80)         (0.62)                                    (24.42)
d. Ambulances/EMS Vehicles                       17.81       -        -       -       -       -     0.15    17.96
(11.87)                                                   (11.87)
2. Speciaiized Technical Services ic                   -    0.40       -       -        -       -    0.60      1.W0
(0.40)                                           (0.40)
3. Technical Assistance and Training
a. Consultant Services, Preparation of Studies and   -       -        -       -       -    1.47     2.26     3.74
Surveys
(1.27)            (1.27)
b. Training, Fellowships and Study Tours             -       -        -       -       -    0.69     1.90     2.59
(0.57)           (0.57)
4. Operational Costs Id                                -       -       -        -       -       -    6.05      6.05
Total                                                 49.85    0.40    0.80    0.40    0.40    2.17    15.52    69.84
(36.52)  (0.40)  (0.62)  (0.31)  (0.30)  (1.85)       -  (40.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
\a Basic office and training equipment, PCs and accessories    ICB  International Competitive
Bidding
Xb Radio/telecommunications equipment and peripherals,  NCB  National Competitive
etc.                                                        Bidding
\c Promotions, information dissemination and media      IS Intemational Shopping
campaigns
\d Includes rent, communications, utilities costs, fuel costs,  NS  National
etc.                                                        shopping
DC  Direct
Contracting
CS  Consultant Services
NBF Non-Bank Financed
procurement
64



Description i         Type of       No. of    Estimated  Procure- Complete           Date      Issuance   Date of    Completion   Contract   Expected
Expendi-    slices/       Cost 4       ment   Draft Bid  Invitation for      of       Bid/RFP    of Bid/RFP    Award         Contract
ture 2      items/                 Method S   Docu-    Proposals   Bidding   Opening              Proposal       Date    Completion
packages 3                           ments or                   Docu-                  Evaluation
RFPs                    ments or
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ IR F P s   _ _ _  _  _                _ _  _ _
GOODS AND EQUIPMENT
Ambulances & EMS Vehicles       G        Package 1        17.81     ICB       Jun-00       Jul -00      Jul-00      Sep-00        Oct-00       Nov-00      Oct-01
Package 2                            Jun-00       Jul -00      Jul-00     Sep 00        Oct00         Nov-00      Oct-01
Package 3                            Jun 00       Jul -00     Aug-00       Oct-00       Nov-00       Dec-00       Nov-01
Package 4                            Jun 00       Jul-00      Aug 00       Oct-00       Nov-00       Dec-00       Nov-01
Vehicles for medical sample     G            1             0.15     NBF       Aug-00       Sep-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Dec-00       Jan-01      Dec-01
collection
Operating Room Equipment        G        Package 1         6.43     ICB       Jun-00       Jul -00      Jul -00     Sep-00        Oct-00       Nov-00      Oct-01
Package 2                            Jul-00       Sep-00       Sep-00     Nov 00        Dec 00        Jan-01      Jan-02
Hospital Equipment for ICUs     G        Package 1        17.39     ICB       Jun-00       Jul -00      Jul-00      Sep-00        Oct-00       Nov-00      Oct-01
Package 2                            Jun-00       Jul -00      Jul-00     Sep 00        Oct 00       Nov-00       Oct-01
Package 3                            Jul 00       Aug-00      Aug-00       Oct-00       Nov-00       Dec-00       Nov-01
Package 4                            Aug 00       Sep-00       Sep 00     Nov-00        Dec-00        Jan-01      Jan-02
Essential Diagnostic Equipment:  G       Package 1         5.43     ICB       Jun-00       Jul -00      Jul -00     Sep-00        Oct-00       Nov-00      Oct-01
Hospitals & Dispensaries                 Package 2                             Jul-00      Sep-00       Sep-00      Nov 00        Dec 00       Jan-01      Jan-02
Other misc medical equipment    G         Various          0.80      IS       Sep-00       Oct-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Dec-00       Dce-00      Mar-01
Other misc medical equipment    G         Various          0.25      IS       Sep-00       Oct-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Dec-00       Dce-00      Mar-01
PHC Equipment, X-ray, etc.      G         Various          4.68     NBF       Jul-00        Jul-00      Aug-00      Sep-00        Oct-00       Nov-00       Jul-01
PHC Equipment Bank financed)    G        Package 1         1.56      ICB      Aug-00       Sep -00      Oct -00     Oct-00        Dec-00       Jan-01      Nov-01
Package 2                            Aug-00       Oct-00       Nov-00      Dec 00       Jan 01        Feb-01      Jan-02
EMS Communications              G            1             1.10      lCB      Aug-00       Sep-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01       Feb-01      Nov-01
Equipment
Miscellaneous Office equipment  G         various          0.40      NS       Sep-00        Oct-00      Nov-00      Dec-00        Dec-00       Dce-00      Mar-01
IT/Comm Software, publications  G         various          0.15      DC       Sep-00       Oct-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Dec-00       Dce-00      Mar-01
& proprietary materials
Subtotal Goods & Equipment                               56.16 1
SPECIALIZED TECHNCIAL SERVICES (STS)
STS (Promotions and Media      STS           3      |      0.40     NCB   | Nov-00          Jan-01      Feb-01      Apr-01        May-01       Jul-01      July-02
Campaign - Bank financed)                           I                                  I              I                      I
65



Description I          Type of      No. of      Estimated  Procure- Complete           Date       Issuance    Date of    Completion   Contract   Expected
Expendi-    slices/        Cost 4       ment    Draft Bid  Invitation for      of       Bid/RFP    of Bid/RFP        Award       Contract
ture 2      ttemsl                  Method 5   Docu-         Proposals   Bidding    Opening          Proposal        Date    Completion
packages 3                            ments or                    Docu-                   Evaluation
RFPs                    ments or
IRFPs                             .
STS (Promotions and Media      STS            3              0.60     NBF       Nov-00        Feb-01       Mar-01      May-01        Jun-01        Aug-01      Dec-02
Campaign - Govt financed)
Subtotal STS                                 1.00
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Component I
Develop Service Plans (DFID)    CS            1             0.40      NBF       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
Develop Service Plans (Bank)    CS            1              0.20    QCBS       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
Develop Service Plans (Bank)    CS            1              0.07      IC       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
Investment policy, legislation  CS            1              0.30    QCBS       Oct-00        Sep-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Jano-Ol       Feb-01      Dec-01
advice, regulations of healthcare
providers (Bank)             __    _                                                                                                              _  _
Investment policy, legislation  CS            1              0.10    QCBS       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
advice, regulations of healthcare
providers (Bank)
Develop Service Plans (Govt)    CS            1              0.02     NBF       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
Capacity Building for Investment    CS        1              0.05     NBF       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
Policy (Govt)                                     _                                                                                         _
Component 3
Develop CME policy, investment    CS          1              0.20    QCBS       Oct-OO        Sep-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Jano-Ol       Feb-01      Dec-01
financing (Bank)                                    _         _            _______
Local Experts: develop CME      CS            1              0.12     NBF       Oct-00        Sep-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Jano-Ol       Feb-01      Dec-01
policy, investment financing
(DFID)                      _______ _                 _
Develop/disseminate practice    CS            1              0.25     NBF       Oct-00        Sep-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Jano-Ol       Feb-01       Jul-02
guidelines, pilot GP distance
learning, design model practices
(soros)
Component 4
EMS consultants (Swiss)         CS         various           0.50     NBF       Sep-00        Oct-00       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01       Dec-01
Component 5
Strategy Reviews, health        CS         various           0.30     NBF       Sep-00        Oct-OO       Oct-00      Dec-00        Jan-01        Feb-01      Dec-01
surveys (Govt)
Public Health policy            CS         various           0.20    QCBS       Oct-00        Sep-00       Nov-00      Dec-00        Jano-Ol       Feb-01      Dec-01
development (Bank)
Specialized Technical Services  STS           3              0.40     NCB        Jul-01       Aug-01       Aug-01      Oct-01        Nov-01        Dec-01      Dec-02
(Bank)
Specialized Technical Services  STS           3              0.60     NBF        Jul-01       Aug-01       Aug-01      Oct-01        Nov-01        Dec-01      Dec-02
(Govt)                                                                       I                                                                                      _
66



Description I         Type of       No. of     Estimated  Procure- Complete           Date       Issuance    Date of    Completion   Contract   Expected
Expendi-    slices/        Cost 4      ment.  Draft Bid  Invitation for       of       BidtRFP    of BidlRFP    Award          Contract
ture 2      itemsl                  Method 5   Docu-        Proposals   Bidding   Opening          Proposal        Date    Completion
packages 3                           ments or                    Docu-                  Evaluation
RFPs                    ments or
.__________________  ._____ _  ./IR FPs                                       .
Design of STS programs (Bank)   CS           1              0.10     CQ        Oct-00       Nov-00       Nov-00      Jan-01        Feb-01        Mar-01      Jun-01
Design of STS programs (Govt)   Cs           1              0.15     NBF       Oct-00       Nov-00       Nov-00      Jan-01        Feb-01        Mar-01      Jun-01
Smoking cessation, STD,         CS                          0.34     NBF       Sep-00       Oct-00       Oct-00      Nov-00        Dec-00        Jan-01      Dec-02
monitoring/eval (Govt)
Smoking cessation, STD,         CS                          0.22      IC       Sep-00       Oct-00       Oct-00      Nov-00        Dec-00        Jan-01      Dec-02
monitoring/eval (Bank)                  ____I
Public Information experts      CS                          0.18     NBF       Sep-00       Oct-oo       Oct-00      Nov-00        Dec-00        Jan-01      Dec-02
(Soros)                      ___
Component 6
Financial Audit (Bank)          CS                          0.09     LCS       Jul-00       Aug-00       Sep-00      Oct-00        Nov-00        Dec-00      Apr-01
Subtotal Consultant Services                                3.74
Training Programs
Component I                                                          Timing and Schedule of Foreign Training and Study tours will be based on Training Plans and Budgets
_._____________________  ____ _ _  prepared by MOH and agreed with the Bank
Seminars for stakeholders,      TR         various          0.17      TR
study tours (Bank)
Capacity Building & DPHA        TR         various          0.17      TR
training (Bank)
Seminars for stakeholders,      TR         various          0.12     NBF
group meetings (Govt)
Capacity Building & DPHA        TR         various          0.11     NBF
training (Govt)
Connponent 2                                      ._ Timing and Schedule of Foreign Training and Study tours will be based on Training Plans and 8udgets
._______________________  .________    ___________           prepared  by  MOH  and  agreed  with the  Bank
EMS staff training (University)  TR        various          0.15     NBF                i                                     I               I _____._._
Component 3                                                          Timing and Schedule of Foreign Training and Study tours will be based on Training Plans and ludgets
.________    ___________    __________    _______   prepared  by MOH  and  agreed   with the  Bank  .    ._  .
Training/development activities  TR           1             0.18     NBF
at national level (DFID)
Training for Pilot Districts    TR         vqrious          0.15     NBF
(Soros)                                     ..                                                                          .
Component 4                                                          Timing and Schedule of Foreign Training and Study tours will be based on Training Plans and Budgets
prepared by MOH and agreed with the Bank
EMS staff Ttraining (Govt)      TR         various          0.30     NBF                I              I                                                  I
Component 5                                                          Timing and Schedule of Foreign Training and Study tours will be based on Training Plans and Budgets
_repared by MOH and agreed with the Bank
Strategy developmentlcapacity   TR         various          0.15     NBF
building  (Govt)                                                    . _ .               I_II__''_
67



Description 1         Type of       No. of      Estimated  Procure- Complete           Date       Issuance    Date of    Completion   Contract   Expected
Expendi-    slices/        Cost 4       ment    Draft Bid  Invitation for      of       Bid/RFP    of Bid/RFP        Award       Contract
ture 2      items/l                 Method 5   Docu-         Proposals   Bidding   Opening           Proposal        Date    Completion
packages 3                            ments or                    Docu-                   Evaluation
RFPs                    ments or
:_     _ .:________ Ii _: ::/RFPs               .
Foreign training: strategy      TR         various           0.12     NBF
development/capacity building
(Soros)                                                       .
Local training, public health   TR         various           0.70     NBF
priority interventions (Govt)                                                                                                                 _   _   _
Study tours, public health      TR         various           0.07      TR
riority interventions (Bank)
Component 6                                                           Timing and Schedule of Foreign Training and Study tours will be based on Training Plans and Budgets
prepared by MOH and agreed with the Bank
Local training, project         TR         various           0.16      TR
management/procurement
(Bank)                                                                                                               .
Subtotal Training                                            2.59
IV. Recurrent Costs (Non-Bank financed)                      6.05     Other
TOTAL PROJECT COST         1                                69.84
I.Name of Package or Contract.
2.G for goods; CS for consulting services, TR for training.
3.Number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package
4.Expressed in US$'000.
5.ICB, NCB, IS, NS, DC (for goods), STS (for specialized technical services); QCBS (for quality and cost-based selection of consultant firms); TR (for training programs.
fellowships and study tours, based on agreed training schedules, candidates, programs and annual budget); LCS (for least-cost selection of consultant firms), IC (for individual
consultant selection); CQ (for selection based on consultant's qualifications); NBF (for non-Bank financed procurement), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of national
administrative procedures based on agreed schedule and budget).
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
68



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1. Procurement Review
Goods1                        ICB           IS/NS          DC          NCB for        % of Loan
Specialized.  Amount subject to
TechServices    prior review
Procurement thresholds     $100.000     IS: Less than   Below         Below
$ 100.000:    $50.000      $400.000
NS: Less than
$25.000            .
Aggregates               $49,850,000    IS:$800,000    $400,000      $400,000
NS:$400.000
Prior Review             All contracts    First 2    All contracts  All contracts      98%
packages for
IS and NS
Consultants                  QCBS         Individual    LCS/CQ        Training
Aggregates                 $900,000      $300,000   LCS: $90,000   $620,000           100%
CQ:$100,000
Prior Review             All contracts   All contracts    All TORs, RFPs, evaluation reports and contracts
above $100,000  above         for consultants; Training Plan and budget for
with firms    $50,000 with   fellowships, study tours and local training;
individuals   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Ex post Review                         Minimal for goods, as practically all Bank-financed contracts are
subject to prior review. One in five contracts for consultant
services. In-depth review of procurement activities during
supervision missions. Yearly financial audits by acceptable firm
___________ ____________   _________selected  competitively.
Section 2: Capacity of the lmplementing Agency in Procurement and Technical
Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement:
The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be the implementing agency for the Project. The existing PMU (first health
project which closed in 1999) will be the PMU for the Project. The Project will be managed at two levels: (a) at the
PMU for the fiduciary review functions, central procurement of goods and services; disbursements and overall
progress reporting; and (b) through small Component Implementation Units including at each of the pilot Districts.
PROPOSED PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT:
The MOH will continue to employ the five experienced full time staff in the existing PMU. Additional operational
assistants will be recruited to the PMU to assist in procurement and financial management. Procurement training in
country will be given to staff of Component Implementing Units, PMU staff will have opportunity to receive further
training abroad in procurement and financial management. As need, a consultant procurement specialist will be
recruited during the first year of the project to train PMU and PIA staff locally, as well as to help establish/firm up
procurement procedures and prepare standard documentation and procurement monitoring tools.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country      Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                    actions for the first year ready by negotiations
Completed in 1999                                     Yes:   X        No:
The Borrower submitted draft ICB documents
(including draft technical specifications of medical
equipment) for Bank review prior to negotiations.
The Bank will provide substantive comments on
these documents immediately following Board
Presentation.
69



Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of   Estimated date of    Indieateif ,e,e is -  Domestic Preference  Domestic Preference
Project Launch      publication of General procurement subject  for Goods:       for Works, if
Workshop:           Procurement Notice:  to mandatory SPN in                     applicable:
July 2000           Development         Yes: X    No:
September 2000                          Business:                                Yes:        No:
Yes: X    No:
Retroactive financing:                                  Advance procurement:
Yes:         No: X          Explain:                    Yes:         No: X        Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System-
The PMU which will include procurement officers with experience in Bank procurement procedures, will oversee all
procurement under the Project. The PMU will maintain acompleteprocurement file for all components and shall
manage its Special Account. Evaluation committees will be established upon commencement of procurement
activities. Periodic supervision missions will review PMU finanb a re=ds
Co-financing: Swiss Development Corporation (SDC), UK Department for International Development (DFID),
Soros Foundation and Romania for technical assistance and training; all on parallel financing arrangements
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Tearn responsible for the procurement in the:
Project: Health Sector Reform Project          Name: Leonardo M. Concepcion            Phone: 32859
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
The Field Office will provide guidance to the PMU staff, as needed, concerning procurement guidelines.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country       Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                     actions for the first year ready by negotiations
CPAR was completed in 1999
The Procurement Law was enacted in December 1997, and   Yes:   X       No:
became effective March 1998.                            The Borrower submitted draft ICB documents
(including draft technical specifications of medical
equipment) for Bank review prior to negotiations.
The Bank will provide substantive comments on
these documents immediately following Board
Presentation
70



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
20.    The proposed Project is expected to be completed within a period of three years. The
disbursement profile is much shorter than that of the previous Bank-funded Health Rehabilitation
Project. However, as bidding documents for the first year ICB package have been drafted and
equipment bids invited by August 2000, the related procurement is expected to generate substantial
up-front disbursements during the first two years of implementation. The Project scope is within
the capacity of the MOH to execute over a three year period. Loan funds are expected to be fully
disbursed within three and a half years of Loan Signing.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Goods                                 33.88              100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory); and 84% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
2. Technical Assistance and               1.69                         100%
Training                                                                __.
3. Specialized Technical Services        0.36                          100%
4. Unallocated                           4.07           __
Total                                    40.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
21.   Diisbursements will take place using the traditional disbursement mechanism based on
SOEs. All disbursements against contracts for goods and works costing US$100,000 or more
equivalent; and services and training for consulting firms costing US$100,000 or more; and
individual consultants and training costing US$50,000 or more; and specialized technical services
costing US$100,000 or more; will be fully documented. Disbursements below these thresholds will
be made against certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) with the exception of the first two
International Shopping (IS) contract for each Project component, and the first two National
Shopping (NS) contracts. This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well
as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the PMU for at least one year after
receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. The
processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Loan and
Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PMU in coordination and consultation
with the Ministry of Finance.
71



Special account:
22.   To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special Account in a
commercial bank denominated in US dollars to be managed by the PMU. The authorized
allocation for the Special Account will be US$1.0 million. However, during the initial stage of
the project, an amount limited to US$0.5 million will be deposited in the Special Account. When
the aggregate amount of disbursement realizes US$5.0 million, the amount deposited in the
Special Account will be increased to the full authorized allocation of US$1.0 million. The
minimum amount of each application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation.
Replenishment applications should be submitted by the PMU on a monthly basis or when about
33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever comes first. The Special Account
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
72



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Project Schedule                                Planned                   Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              19                      32
First Bank mission (identification)             05/29/1997                  10/06/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     02/07/2000                  02/07/2000
Negotiations                                    05/15/2000                  05/15/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2000
Prepared by:
ECSHD Romania Health Team
Preparation assistance:
Technical Assistance from the following:
lnterhealth Institute
Australian Health Insurance Commission
Robert Dredge, Primary Health Care Specialist
Klaus Imbeck, Pharmaceuticals Expert
Paolo Giribona, Medical Equipment Specialist
Roddy Neame, MIS Specialist
Craig Charney,
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                         Speciality
Olusoji Adeyi                         Sr. Health Specialist
Loraine Hawkins                       Health Economist
Silviu Radulescu                      Health Specialist
Richard Florescu                      Human Development Specialist
Sabrina Huffman                       Operations Officer
Leonardo Concepcion                   Sr. Implementation Specialist
Cristina Vladu                        Health Specialist
Ramesh Govindaraj                     Pharmaceuticals Specialist
Ross Pavis                            Operations Analyst
Simo Kokka                            Public Health Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu                 Financial Management Specialist
Imelda Mueller                        Program Assistant
Dana Elena Burduja                    Team Assistant
Simona Buse                           Team Assistant
PEER REVIEWERS:
Toomas Palu                           Health Specialist
Eva Jarawan                           Senior Health Specialist
73



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Feachem, R. 1995. Romania Health Rehabilitation Project. World Bank mission report.
Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 1997b. Romania: Poverty and Social Policy. Report Number 16462-RO.
Washington, D.C.
_  1999. Romania Health Sector Support Strategy Paper. Document Number 18410-
RO. Washington, D.C.
C. Other
Arges District Public Health Authority. 1999. Project for Developing Integrated Health Services
in Arges District. Pitesti.
Australian Health Insurance Commission. 1998. Romania Health Financing Project. Unpublished
Report. Bucharest.
Botosani District Public Health Authority. 1999. Projectfor Developing Integrated Health
Services in Botosani District. Botosani.
Charney Research. 1998. Building Relationships, Restoring Resources: Presenting Romania 's
Health Insurance Law to the Public. Report prepared for the World Bank. New York.
Commission of Emergency Care of the Ministry of Health, Romanian Society for Emergency and
Disaster Care, and Romanian Medical Association. 1999 Program for Developing an Integrated
Emergency Care System Bucharest.
Covasna District Public Health Authority. 1999. Projectfor Developing Integrated Health
Services in Covasna District. Sf. Georghe.
Dolj District Public Health Authority. 1999. Project for Developing Integrated Health Services in
Dolj District. Craiova.
European Committee for Standardization. 1998. Medical Vehicles and their Equipment - Road
Ambulances. Final Draft, EN 1789. Brussels.
Government of Romania. "Establishment and Functioning of Unites for Emergency Admissions
in Hospitals" Order of the Minister of Health No. 508/1999. Bucharest.
lngnatenko, N. 1996. Tuberculosis Control Program Review Report: Romania. Unpublished
report. Bucharest.
74



Institute for Health Sector Development. 1995. Evaluation of Health Reform in Eight Pilot
Districts in Romania. Report to the Ministry of Health. London.
Institute for Mother and Child Health Care, International Foundation for Children and Families,
and National Commission for Statistics (Bucharest); Behavioral Epidemiology and Demographic
Research Branch, Division of Reproductive Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
(Atlanta); and Center for Development and Population Activities (Washington D.C.). 1998.
Romania Young Adult Reproductive Health Survey 1996: Final Report. Bucharest.
Interhealth Institute. 199B. Romania Health Sector Reform: Final Report and Addendum to the
Final Report. Report submitted to the World Bank. Washington, DC.
Ministry of Health. 1997. National Tuberculosis Control Program. Bucharest.
Ministry of Health, Health Statistics, and Medical Documentation Center. 1998. Statistical
Yearbook 1997. Bucharest.
Ministry of Health, Institute of Mother and Child Care (Bucharest), and Division of
Reproductive Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Atlanta). 1995. Romania
Reproductive Health Survey 1993: Final Report. Bucharest.
District Public Health Authority. 1999. Proposals for Development of Emergency Services in the
District Hospitals of Cluj. Cluj.
District Public Health Authority. 1999. Proposals for Development of Emergency Services in the
District Hospitals of Constanta . Constanta.
District Public Health Authority. 1999. Proposals for Development of Emergency Services in the
District Hospitals ofrimis. Timisoara.
*Including electronic files
75



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed 6
Projects
Board Date Fiscal Year                                  Last PSR                                                                         Difference Between
Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating          Orieinal Amount in US$ Millions                   Disbursements "t
Active Projects                              Develooment  Implementation          IBRD           IDA       Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
Obiectives       Proeress
1994     P008784      EDUCATION REFORM                     S                S                  50            0            0      23.34       23.34          0
1994     P008774      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT               S                S                 175            0           55      45.48      100.48      100.48
1994     P008777      PETROLEUM SECTOR                     S                U                175.6           0            0       87.3        87.3          0
REHABILITATION
1995     P008776      EMPLOY. & SOC.                       S                S                55.4            0            0      39.84       35.74          0
PROTECTION
1996     P008794      POWER SECTOR                         S                S                 110            0            0     101.13      100.88          0
REHABILITATION
1996     P036013      RAILWAY                               S               S                 120            0            0      58.23       48.23          0
1997     P008795      ASAL                                  S               s                 350            0            0      138.9        150       142.26
1997     P008778      BUCHAREST WATER SUPPLY                S               S                  25            0            0      11.77       10.27          0
1997     P008793      HIGHER EDUCATION                      S               S                  50            0            0      37.13       37.13        6.63
1997     P039250      SECOND ROADS                         S                S                 150            0            0      69.69      -20.31          0
1998     P055495      CHILD WELFARE REFORM                 U                S                   5            0            0        4.8         2.6          0
1998     P034213      RO GENERAL CADASTRE                   S               U                25.5            0            0      24.37        2.37          0
1998     P044614      SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                S               S                  70            0            0      68.57       20.87          0
1998     P008788      TELECOMMUNICATION                     S               S                  30            0            0      25.83       15.45          0
1999     P058284      CULTURAL HERITAGE                     S               S                   5            0            0       4.96        2.46          0
1999     P039251      PIBL                                  S               S                  25            0            0      23.73        0.73          0
1999     P064853      PSAL                                  S               S                 300            0            0        150         150          0
1999     P049200      SOCIAL DEVELOP. FUND                  S               S                  10            0            0        8.9          4           0
2000     P043882      AGR SUPPORT SERVICES                  S               S                   11           0            0         11           0          0
2000     P056337      MINE CLOSURE AND SOCIAL               S               S                 44.5           0            0      44.27        1.77          0
MITIGATION
76



Romania
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 04/30/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company         Loan Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1999 Ambro            8.28     0      0      0  5.52       0     0      0
1998 Banc Post          0      0    10       0      e      e    10      0
1998 Bilstein Compa    2.12     0     0   2.12  2.12       0     0   2.12
1996 Danube Fund        0      2      0      0      0      2     0      0
1998 Demir Romania      5    3.2      0      0      1   2.55     0      0
1997 Efes Brewery     9.27      0   1.24     7  9.27       0     0      7
1998 FCRFund            0      10     0      0      0     10     0      0
1998 Garanta            0    0.2      0      0      0    0.2     0      0
1998 Krupp Compa      6.58     0      0   2.82  5.43       0     0   2.33
1997 Mobil Rom         40       0    10    160    40       0    10    160
1997 Rambox           1.63      2     0      0  1.63       2     0      0
1994/98     Romlease            0    0.3      0      0      0    0.3     0      0
1998 Small Bus. Loan    5   0.02      0      0      3   0.02     0      0
Total Portfolio:      77.88  17.72 21.24 171.94 67.97  17.07    20 171.45
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
77



Annex 10
Romania at a glance                                                                 9,99
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Romania       Asia  income       Development diamond'
1998
Population. mid-year (millions)                      22.5      473       908                 Life expectancy
GNPpercapita(Atlasmethod USs)                       1,390     2190      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     31.3     1.039     1.557
Average annual growth. 1992-98
Population (%)                                       -0.2       0.1       1.1     GNP                              Gross
Laborforce (%)                                       -2.3       0.6       1.5     per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1992-98)                                                           enrollment
Poverty (X of populabton below natronal poverty line)  30                         c ap i
Urban population (% of total population)               57        68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      69         69       68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              22         23       38
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)               6                        |         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (t of population)                 96                  75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   3          4       14
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)   97       100       103             Romania
Male                                                97        101      105         - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              97         99      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS bilHons)                             ..    38.1       32.1      38.2
Gross domestic investmentVGDP               39.8     31.8      21.5      17.7                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    26.6      29.7      25.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           40.6      14.5       9.2
Gross national savingslGDP                           40.0      15.2       9.5
Current account balancetGDP                           5.4      -6.7      -7.6     Domestic                    lnvestnnt
Interest payments/GDP                                 1.3       1.5       1.4     Savings
Total debtVGDP                                       17.3      30.7      25.8
Totaldebtservicerexports                     1.0    21.9       18.1      22.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                      28.4
Present value of debt/exports                                  91.4
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.1     -2.3     -8.6      -7.5      -4.6             Romania
GNP per capita                      2.5     -2.2     -6.5      -8.1                         Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                2.5      2.1       2.5       2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(56 of GOP)                                                                       20
Agriculture                                          14.2       19.6     16.4    10
Industry                                             57.2      44.6      40.1 
Manufacturing                                                 30.5     29.9
Services                                             28.6      35.8      43.4   -10
-20
Private consumption                                  50.5      75.4      76.1            93   94   95  9f   97  9a
General govemment consumption                         8.9      10.1      14.7                     GDI       0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                        17.8      36.7      34.2    1
(average annual gowth)                   11977-47  1988-98     1997     199S      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                           0.6       2.2      -95    20 T
Industry                                             -3.2      -7.7    -10.1        i
Manufacturing                                                 -4.9    -11.4       14
Services                                             -3.5     -11.0      -4.5 o
Private consumption                                   0.4      -6.2      -3.3
General govemment consumption                         3.5      -10.6     14.1    10
Gross domestc investment                             -7.6     -14.3    -30.0             03   94   95   96   97   so
Imports of goods and services                         2.1       -4.6      5.2                   Exports   Cl Impors
Gross national product                       3.1     -2.5      -6.7      -8.3
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
'. AX          xC ;                    =      iii< 



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998        on(%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                ..      0.9     154.8     59.1     2
Implicit GDP deflator                       -5.9      6.1    146.7      46.6
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                               ..    50.4       30.4     34.3              03   S4   9S ,         97,  9$
Current budget balance                        ..    31.6        1.1      0.4              -     G0P  cr    *  cpR
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    15.2       -3.6     -4.0
TRADE
1977    1987      1997      1998      E_xpoi,r and riport 'evels (USS millions)
(US$ rmilions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  10,491      8,431    8,302     '23X -
Common metals and articles                   .        -    1.556    1,583
Mineral products                            ..       ..       638      508
Manufactures                                      7,570     5,139    5,238     ._
Total imports (cif)                                 8,313    11,280   11,838
Food                                        ..    111         426      523       o
Fuel and energy                             .. 4,722        2,408    1,687
Capital goods                                ..   2,101     2.975    3,206
:  92  93  SWl  95  se   5   6
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                            77        87
Importprice index (1995=100)                  ..      95       105        ..                            n
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      82        82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987      1997      1998      CurrentaccountbalsancetoGDP ratio{f%)
(US$ nillions)
Exports of goods and services              7.357   11.261     9.955    9,519              -
Imports of goods and services              7.529    8,828    12.349   12,798         ._
Resource balance                           -172    2,433    -2.394   -3,279
Net income                                  -132    -390       -322     -392
Net curTent transfers                         ..       0       579       753        K
Currentaccount balance                      -304    2,043    -2,137    -2,918     56
Financing items (net)                       -30   -1,002      3,802    2,075
Changes in net reserves                     334   -1,041    -1,665       843    -9 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..    4,671     3,789
Conversion rate (DEC, locaL4US$)                     22.2   7,787.7  8,875.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE SLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 199M (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        756    6,580      9,832    9,832
IBRD                                      288    2,039      1,392    1,443                             A'
IDA                                         0        0         0         0
Total debt service                           76    2,493      18,44    2,246
IBRD                                       17      373        99       150
IDA                                                                      0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        0       108
Official creditors                         154    -430       598      -185 
Privatecredtors                             0   -1,023      1,059      362           4,
Foreign direct investment                   0        0      1.224    2,040
Portfolio equity                            0        0       883       130
World Bank program                                                               E. . 6
Commitments                               237        0       620        66      a- r,R                      E-3t:ae:
Disbursements                             145        0       399       153     B . ;                         -
Principal repayments                        0      215        29        68
Net flows                                 145    -215        371        84
Interest payments                          17      158        70        81
Net transfers                             128    -373        301         3
Development Economics                                                                                              919/99
-m - r-%2' -.--          g                                            '                   & 



Annex 11: Financial Management Arrangements
ROMANIA HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
General financial mana2ement arrangements for the proiect:
The existing PMU (Health Sector Project Management Unit - also in charge of First Health Project) is
responsible for the overall project financial management system.
In order to have a financial management and accounting system in place, acceptable to the Bank, and to have
minimum World Bank financial management requirements met prior to the Board presentation, a contract
was signed with a qualified software and accounting local firm (Scala Busmness Shitioms Romania).
The initial installation of the software has already been completed by Scala. The customization work by the
above mentioned software-accounting firm is in progress (as at May 26, 2000), to put in place an accounting
and financial management system (by subcomponents, activities and regions, in order to keep track of
contracts with suppliers for the beneficiaries).
The accounting firm is responsible for producing for the PMU: specific charts of accounts; detailed financial
statements; reporting methods. The accounting firm is also responsible for preparing the financial
management and accounting manual for the project (including internal controls, financial management and
accounting procedures, job descriptions in view of complete segregation of duties, disbursement procedures,
financial reporting, planning and budgeting, flow of funds between the financiers, the project and
beneficiaries, etc. and for training the PMU staff in the use of the financial management system. Draft
documents have been completed already by Scala.
In addition, the firm would be expected to ensure the quality of the financial statements of the PMU for the
first year of operations and would be released of this responsibility once these statements have been audited
and the recommendations of the independent auditor have been implemented.
The PMU will maintain its accounts on a cash basis and in accordance Romanian National Accounting
Standards for budgetary institutions, to reflect their operations and financial positions. The project will have
all the financial accounting documents recorded in the accounting software system and filled accordingly at
the PMU.
The PMU will produce quarterly project management reports (PMR) for management information purposes.
The initial complete set of PMRs will reflect the quarter ended September 30th, 2000. PMRs are to be
produced no later than 45 days after the end of the relevant quarter.
Regarding the filing of all the accounting papers, all financial accounting documents will be properly
recorded and filed separately by the accountants of the PMU, keeping a clear linkage with the software
records for intemal control and audit trail purposes.
Copies of all the relevant project financial accounting documents (invoices, contracts, payment orders, bank
statements, etc) will be provided by each beneficiary to PMU.
80



Staffine and training aspects
In terms of staffing, the financial manager (chief accountant) reports to the PMU director. There is an
additional accountant position (filled with a suitably qualified person), to ease the pressure on the chief
accountant. The job description for this position is to be fully developed by PMU and, at least in the
beginning, should include simple tasks such as data input, documents processing, relationships with local
banks, etc., all under the close supervision of the chief accountant. This will allow the chief accountant to
focus more on the more complex tasks, such as budgeting, reporting, etc. and will help in achieving internal
control procedures, complete segregation of duties and appropriate levels of workload.
After the effectiveness of the project, if needed, an agreement has to be reached on the recruitment of a
disbursement specialist to strengthen the capacity of PMU to ensure effective disbursement of project funds.
It is proposed that this person would: (a) set up a database for the budget of the project components and
monitor the expenses against the budget in close co-operation with the chief accountant of PMU; (b) monitor
and reconcile the special and project accounts; (c) check the statements of expenditures for conformity of
presentation and eligibility of expenditures; (d) monitor the timely submission of the audit reports and
(e) perform any other duties as internal auditor of the project, in order to improve internal control issues.
In the event that alternative accounting staff are recruited, then it is recommended that the accountant(s)
contracted or recruited should at a minimum: have an accounting degree/diploma and is familiar with
International Accounting Standards (IAS); be computer literate (knowledge of Excel, Word, and other
computer packages); have a minimum of two to three years of related work experience; and be able to speak,
read and write in both Romanian and English.
The training needs of the PMU financial-accounting staff are to be assessed as soon as possible by the PMU
management. Ms. Dreve Aurelia (current chief accountant) and Mr. Marius Ticala (current accountant) will
be provided with additional training on International Accounting Standards (IAS).
Auditini!
The PMU will have the project accounts audited (including special accounts and statements of expenditures)
in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA), by a firm of independent auditors acceptable
to the World Bank. Recruitment of such a firm is on a yearly renewable contract (subject to satisfactory
performance). The auditors will be paid from proceeds of the loan.
The audit report and management letter will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the
fiscal year. A shortlist of auditors must be presented for no objection to the Bank prior to Board
presentation. Suitable Terms of Reference will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for no objection.
Special and proiect accounts and cash mananement
A separate special account will be opened for the Project at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. A
letter of comfort is to be issued by the selected bank. As at May 26, 2000, the PMU has started the process
of selecting such a commercial bank.
An additional 'conversion' account (in local currency, ROL) is to be opened adjacent to the special account,
to account for the amounts converted in local currency.
81



Counterpart financing from the GoR will be channeled through the Treasury system. Financing from other
donors with be received in different project accounts. All sources of financing for the project will be
reflected separately in the accounting software system.
In terms of cash management, it is recommended that the PMU should develop better cash forecasting and
monthly planning procedures. Amounts kept in ROL should be at a minimum level to avoid the risk of an
abrupt future devaluation (both amounts held in banks and cash on hand).
Financial Manazement Action Plan
The Action Plan set out below was updated and agreed between the Romanian Authorities and the Bank
during negotiations. Actions have been completed by due dates through to May 26, 2000, and the PMU is on
track to carry out a trial run of the accounting software, and to be assessed by the Bank's Financial
Management Specialist by May 30, 2000.
Financial Management Action Plan
Action                          Responsibility     Due date
Accounting software system
*  Prepare a TOR acceptable to the Bank for the project's  PMU / Bank     1/14/2000
accounting software system
*  Select accounting software system                   PMU / Bank        3/31/2000
*  Conclude contract with the accounting software system  PMU / Bank     5/22/2000
supplier
*  Initial installation of accounting software system (chart  Software   5/25/2000
of accounts, project components and customization)  supplier/PMU
*  Inception report and draft accounting manual for initial    Software supplier  5/25/2000
procedures (as per the contract with the supplier)
*  Complete installation of accounting software system and   Software supplier  6/19/2000
provision of appropriate training and final accounting
manual documenting the project accounting, reporting
and internal controls procedures
*  Final training immediately after effectiveness date (as  Software supplier    11/15/2000
per the contract with the supplier)__
Audit arrangements
* Present shortlist of auditors for no-objection by the Bank  PMU        5/29/2000
* Confirm no-objection to shortlist of auditors           Bank           6/30/2000
* Appoint auditors                                        PMU            12/31/2000
Certification of financial management arrangements
* Bank Financial Management Specialist to visit project to  Bank         5/30/2000
confirm adequacy of project's financial management
arrangements
82



Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan
ROMANIA HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects In the IBRDJIDA
Lending Program
Country:                                         Project ID No.:
ROMANIA                                          P008797
Project Name:
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Appraisal Date:                                  IBRD Amount (US$m):
February 7, 2000                                 32
Board Date:                                      IDA Amount (US$m):
June 20, 2000                                    N/A
Managing Division:                               Sector:
ECSHD                                            HB - Basic Health
Lending Instrument:                              Status:
Adaptable Program Loan (APL)                     Negotiations scheduled for first week of May 2000
Date for receipt of EA report by Bank:           Date Assigned:
05/01/2000                                       01/27/2000
EA Category: B
Date data sheet preparedlupdated:                Please do not leave any items blank. Use 'N/A' (not avplicable) or
03/01/2000                                      'TBD' (to be determrined) when anpropriate.
Major Project Components:
1. Planning & Regulation of Healthcare Delivery System:
This component will support planning for rationalization of physical and human assets, and development of
policy, regulatory, institutional and financing frameworks to foster efficient resources allocation in the health
care delivery system.
2. District Hospitals: Essential Upgrade:
This component will support equipping of emergency departments, operating theaters, intensive care units
and essential diagnostic services in 24 district and teaching hospitals; it will also support training of staff in
better clinical management of emergency cases.
3. Primary Health Care Development:
This component will support staff development for health professionals working in primary care, and
equipping of public sector primary care facilities and ambulatory diagnostic centers to support primary care
in six pilot judets, with priority given to improvement of access to care in poor and remote areas.
83



4. Emergency Medical Services:
This component will provide medical and communications equipment, ambulances and training to support
establishment of integrated emergency medical services in some districts, and upgrade of existing emergency
medical services in other districts. Priority is given to areas with highest road traffic accident frequency.
5. Public Health & Disease Control:
This component will support a process through which the health status gap between Romania and Western
Europe can be reduced. Activities will include technical assistance, training, equipment and infrastructure
support. The Project will support national-level interventions, including legislation and regulations, as well
as community-based interventions focusing on reducing exposure to the risks of diseases, public health
education, prevention and promotion, and advocacy.
6. Project Management:
This component will support project management and implementation over a five-year project period. This
implementation structure will form the foundation for implementation of the overall reform program over
subsequent years.
Project Location: (besides geographic location, information about the key environmental characteristics of the area
likely to be affected by the project, and proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats)
Civil works will not be financed by the project, but are to be completed by participating facilities as a pre-
requisite for receiving equipment. These are confined to minor works (internal works, repairs of existing
roofs and walls) in existing hospitals and dispensaries, in urban and village settings, and so will not affect the
environmental characteristics of the area.
Major Environmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
No adverse environmental effects anticipated. The Project will follow accepted Bank
procedures.
Other Environmental Issues: (of lesser scope associated with project)
Efforts will be undertaken to mitigate potential construction impact related to the rehabilitation of public
health facilities (e.g. materials disposal, noise pollution, meeting building standards). All hospital, health
center and dispensary activities will incorporate appropriate and safe disposal of wastes.
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues described above)
Modem standards will be adopted in the design and construction of all civil works to allow for the proper
disposal of medical wastes. Medical waste collection systems will be put in place for dispensaries
participating in the Project. An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared and submitted as a
Condition of Negotiations.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for environmental category selected
and explanation of any changes from initial classification, including whether any changes relate to alternatives)
No environmental impact.
84



Reporting Schedule: (Category A EA report: Start-up date, date for first draft, and current status. Category B: Is
there a separate environmental analysis? If yes,when is it due?)
Start-up date N/A
Date for first draft N/A
Current status EMP was submitted prior to Negotiations, and is attached in Annex 12 of
the PAD.
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted and, where EA
reports were made public locally, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA report, etc.)
N/A
Signed by: Loraine Hawkins                                 Team Leader
Signed by: Armin Fidler                                    Sector Manager
Signed by: John Hayward                                    Head, Regional Environment Sectoral Unit
85



Environmental Management Plan
A. BACKGROUND
Environmental issues regarding the implementation of the Romania Health Sector Reform Project have to be
examined in the context of the regulatory framework existing in Romania. In the field of environment,
provisions of Law No. 137 of 1995 (the Law on environmental protection) are applicable. Regarding civil
works, the above-mentioned Law requires an environmental authorization to be issued by environmental
protection authorities for any new investment or changes performed on existing ones (article 8). Regulation
of disposal of waste, with specific reference to construction waste, is a part of the Minister of Health Order
No. 536/1997, which requires for separate collection and disposal at authorized sites, in a manner that
prevents dissemination of pollutants in the environment. Enforcement of these provisions and monitoring of
compliance is an integral part of the mandate of authorities of both the Ministry of Environment and the
Ministry of Health, acting at the level of each district.
B. MITIGATION PLAN
Cost             Institutional     Comments
Responsibility       (e.g.
secondary
impacts)
Phase         Issue           Mitigating         Install   Operate    Install   Operate
-__________ _    - M easure     _                         e
Operation    *  Medical    *  Modern standards      Minor  Minor costs PMU,        Medical
waste          will be adopted in the   costs          Suppliers of services
disposal       design and                              construction provider
construction of all                     works,      units
civil works to allow                    Investment  (PHC
for the proper                          coordinating providers,
disposal of medical                     engineers   hospitals)
wastes. Medical                         from DPHA
waste collection
systems will be put
in place for PHC
providers that will
benefit from
investments in the
Project.
86



MONITORING PLAN
Cost              Responsibility
Phase           What         Where          How           When    Why             Install   Operate   Install    Operate
parameter is to    is the       is the         is the    Is the
be monitored? parameter to parameter to be parameter to  parameter
be      monitoredl type be monitored- to be
monitored?  of monitoring  frequency of  monitored
equipment?   measurement  (optional)?
or
continuous?
Operate         Compliance    Medical        Monitoring of  Periodic                               Minor                  DPHA
with medical   units that    medical waste  inspection,                            costs
waste disposal  will benefit  disposal is part frequency
procedures     from         of current tasks varies with
investments  of existing   size of unit,
under the    sanitary       but at least
Project     inspection in   one per year
DPHAs
87



C. I NSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. Training/Study Tours
Project will support capacity building of public health services, that include environmental health
services. as well as development of a National Strategy for Public Health, Disease Control and
Health Promotion, that will include further development of the already existing National
Environmental Health Action Plan.
2. Consultant Services
The development of a National Strategy for Public Health, Disease Control and Health
Promotion, to be supported by the project, will include further development of the already
existing National Environmental Health Action Plan.
D. SCHEDULE
Activities on mitigation, monitoring and training would be carried out throughout the
project, in coordination with the schedule of procurement and for medical equipment. A more
specific schedule to be provided after Project Implementation Plan is produced.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
The PMU will be responsible to contract and oversee the required suppliers for goods procured
from loan funds. The PMU's responsibility includes the following activities:
-  ensure in the preparation of tender documents that specific references are made to
relevant Romanian environmental regulation.
-  ensure for the contracts to be signed in accordance with agreed procedures and the
environmental plan.
-  ensure that the personnel responsible for investment supervision in DPHAs are providing
adequate supervision, particularly the supervision of activities specified in the
environmental plan.
The DPHAs will be technically responsible to contract and oversee the required suppliers for
goods procured from local funds. The DPHAs' responsibility includes the following activities:
-  ensure in the preparation of tender documents that specific references are made to
relevant Romanian environmental regulation.
-  ensure for the contracts to be signed in accordance with agreed procedures and the
environmental plan.
-  carry out adequate supervision by their employed personnel responsible for investment
supervision, particularly the supervision of activities specified in the environmental plan.
88



Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Strategy and Reform Program
ROMANIA: HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
ROMANIA
NMNI;STRZY OF FINANCFE
(C/dC 1o/6. 02.4 06a.
MR ~kDJCWVORKiNK
AR,1. AVIDRE-1  v0       N.N
COUNT7RY DITPYCTOTR
BUTGAR.11 A AND R(QVrAN'e  CQLP&1RY  n[N'U
EU:ROPU AN!) C EN\TRAL_ .ASIA\ REGION
'W'0RI.kD B ANK.
Dar .
R2: Health Sector Refor-m Project
(Secon(i ecalth Project) for Romania
Further to our le- ters datzed Novciner ;I &1999 UnL Jorwa:-  2$.
20.Q, atr'er an.&.ak;ng -he raiio;naics pointed out by die B3ank-. corrobo:mteed
wt-,  'he r:cnces_iEi.^-s of' Ihe hicaltn sector, the estimatcd b.lanc?; OL' -,he
R.cvanm1- State b!tdct:r t(b' the nxt oeri;od, and iii order zo sustiSain Zile
Gov?c.:me.nt hae:l hR sw,wegy :at Mt levls, Wne Drtoposc toyou the follwircigs:
' 1 he loan wusr he an Adaptable Progaur Loan (AP"L) ir az aggre2gpsc
Qft;SD r ,)  u ion in t7wo Lranches:                   "uSr) 40  Lflhiiof e ir th
z:';nc. tLo he dis,rscd 4, UWC? n  e- rS (Phas-c nl. Ui t:" _0 miLiu 
;!; seccr.d L? auti,acut?. (0e dCC  u.-tl.d .       .-  . I4L ! PSe  .;ase .,
^ll cxertav Piwe I bi tm vc_n.^' The arro1ounr c' i'unds allocre-d o Phaio I
..i'  cie e:;l  ;r  co,amplFetd  bididhg  docin .en:t's includi.-, tcchnca
'.  +J;.- jz   t. :',sii.LLi7  ~. *4a,. Et',.t. a..;:. ..V,ui..:'. .ran..  sC .tE 'OIi4.aiq;.
;.f ir te -Ye lari nesXriauu a:
2. 1Te loana viii :;e 5';>ner 'ln;3flC't flELCtO-Ctt4hb for te::-nii;. ,jM  s,icarts, as
Ihec:. X1.n .:omOrt]' otc  ;!toe pro'eczwih he:nl- sto>uet r' ,6ps,c
! 11;~ 2E1  :c>.t:-LL:u1.: ;2C ;or: i.a L*:               tait !r e:
:tx.  .S!.)a:NXiLC.  E3V  ..ff -Phlare;?
89



C)PLimUary ,teahdi care dcve'pi-cent ( in  cnlu2a:o  cari- and in rara
dispensaries locared int poor and isolated arcas);
dErEmergencv rmdical serv ices;
e,,Public healtEh andd isease pretcntion:
O)Project man-agement unit
. Thie loan should ItTnance: c-ndowmment oidk ::ict   picals .;r surgery arin
intensivc therapy units; endowvment of emrei.nc-. medcal ore-hosaital
ca-re: endownimenPt rif arnfulatory care and wrn Jl dispcnsaries bo-catcd in poor
-3..d :ls;ilazed arcas; cquipmrenc  Cr public health and diseasc prevento,n
1ncincrators. .teriRising equipment); sor wvare, ta!ining IrA equipm.ent
mrthnc Project. N4anangemert Lnit;
P. The amount of funds allocated to each loan -:ornpoan:cm   U;1 be agreed
am.ong te MNi4;;nistry oF F inance. the NMinistry oft  teaMt a-nd r,-' W-arld Bank
- thLe end of the Appraisal Mission.
I loping. thaL our request 'vii meet your supnort .  arrm look L-
forward your early rep'y.
Decebal Tralan Rernes
M4inister of rinoancc
cc: \L.. I 1a3du G Cbor. m?niEsccr 01o Ihealth
N4!r.Ziad .Diar:Ccb. IBRDci residcn! rsston
90



ROMANIA
Ministry of Health                                Ministry of Finance
Mr. Andrew Vorkink
Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
World Bank
Bucharest, July 15, 1999
Dear Mr. Vorkink
Health Sector Strategy and Reformn Progrmme For Romania.
We are writing to ask for the continued support of the World Bank for the
reform of our health sector. The Ministry of Health has received'ywr support
through the Health Services Rehabilitation Project. The project cosed in June 1999
and the Ministry of Health has started working on the Implementation Completion
Report for this project. During the past two years, the Ministry of Health and other
agencies in the health sector of Romania have worked together to prepare a new
strategy for the health sector and a programme for health sector reform. We have
been assisted by many agencies, including the World Bank EU-PHARE, UNICEF,
WHO, USAID. The Ministry of Health has now prepared a ckaft strategy which I
have approved. A copy of this strategy is attached to this letter. The broad
principles of this strategy have already been included in the Sustainable
Development Strategy recently endorsed by the Government of Romania, which will
be released soon. More details regarding implementation steps of our strategy ill
be included in the action plan for the Sustainable Development Strategy, which the
Government of Romania plans to finalise by the end of September 1999. The
overall approach is shown in the attached draft implementation plan.
2.   There are many problems in our health sector. Some of them are the remains
of the health system that existed before 1990. Others are due to uncompleted
attempts to restructure the health system during the transition period, exacerbated by
the econormic pressures Romania has experienced in this time.
91



2a.      Our health finance system is going through major changes. The Law
On Social Health Insurance (Law 145/97) of 1997 changed the main source of
funds for publicly financed health services from general revenues to earmarked
payroll taxes. When that law became fully effective in April 1999, the Ministry of
Health became the lead agency for regulating, setting standards for, monitoring,
and evaluating the health system and its components and ensuring the quality of
health care. The Ministry does not have the full capacity to carry out these
functions effectively. The health insurance system itself has not been fully
established in term of structures, guidelines and functions. Currently, revenue
collection and redistribution for the new insurance system is administered through
the National Health Insurance House and district health insurance houses. The
World Bank's concerns that the 1997 law did not provide for equity in the
insurance revenues have been recognized by the Government of Romania, and
addressed through the Government Ordinance 30/1998 in October 1998, which
amended the law to provide for a redistribution of up to 25 percent. We also accept
the need to introduce proper incentives to increase the efficiency of the health
system, and have taken initial steps to-do so by changing the payment system for
primary health care and hospitals in the Framework Contract approved through
Government Decision 312 of April 1999. Some of these measures need more work
and refinement to ensure success, however, we believe we have taken important
first steps.
2b.    As in many countries in central and eastem Europe, our health services do
not target the major health problems of the population as effectively as they should.
A large proportion of premature sickness and death in Romania is due to lifestyles,
particularly tobacco consumption, accidents and injuries, alcohol abuse, and poor
dietary habits. Many of these problems can be dealt with inexpensively by modem
public health programmes. But our health services still emphasize curative care.
2c.    Many of our buildings and equipment are obsolete, poorly maintained, or
unsuitable for providing good-quality health services. Modem management skills
are scarce. Services are over-centralized and unresponsive to local initiatives and
needs. The private sector is poorly developed. The Government has recently
passed an Ordinance changing the status of public sector family doctors and
dentists to that of private practitioners.
3.  We have considered solutions to these problems. The goals of our health sector
reform -e to restructure health services in line with the health problems, to promote
equity   ording to the principles of the Govemment and the World Health Organization,
and to  sure sustainable financing.
92



4.  We cannot solve all these problems at the same"time. We have enjoyed the support
of the World Bank through the first health project. We hope that you will continue to
support us in some of the next steps we plan to take in beginning to address these
problems, through a second health project. I trust that the actions we have taken to
develop a health strategy for Romania and achieve the support of the Govermnent for our
strategy, will provide the reassurance you seek regarding the broader context in which a
second health project would be carried out.
Your sincerely,
Hajdu Gabor                                 Decebal Traian Reme
Minister WHKth  t  fl,  +,^  <45            Minister of FR
Mr. Olusoji Adeyi (World Bank)
Mr. Silviu Radulescu (World Bank)
Attachments:
Health Sector Strategy
Draft Implementation Plan
93



Attachment
THE STRATEGY OF HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM
During the year 1998, specialists of the Ministry of Health, the Institute of Health Services
Management, consultants from Interhealth Institute and the World Bank have prepared a study on
the Reform of the Health System. Specialist of the Ministry of Health have updated and
summarized the main conclusions of the study, which form the basis for the Reform Strategy of
the Ministry of Health.
Thze strategic objective of the Ministry of Health is a healthy Romania, withl lower morbidity
andfewer premature deaths, ensuring the equitable access to health services and improved
efficiency of tlhe healthi system
The strategy of reform of the health sector is coherent with the political decision to move from a
centrally planned economy to a market economy. The centrally planned health system has been
replaced by the health insurance system, financed from contributions of employees and
employers, with a supplement of financing from taxes to cover groups of population that do not
have to pay contributions, for nationally important public health programmes as well as for
investments in buildings for health facilities and high performance medical equipment.
The changes in the health system introduced by laws with major impact (Law 145/1997 on Social
Health Insurance, Law 100/1998 on Public Health Services, Ordinance 124/1998 on Medical
Offices), will influence the sources and mechanism of financing, relations between health care
providers and financers as well as the entire population.
As a consequence of the introduction of these changes, the Ministry of Health has identified the
main current problems of the system and intends to solve these problems through strategic
interventions.
The main problems of the health system
1.   Management of the system and the legislative framework
Through the enforcement of the Law on Social Health Insurance no 145/1 997 the Ministry of
Health remains the authority in charge of defining the health policy, setting norms and standards,
monitoring and evaluating the health system. The Ministry of Health is not fully prepared for
these functions.
At present the Ministry of Health is carrying out the project of Institutional Reform, financed by
EU PHARE with ECU I million, a project that has as a goal to reorganize the health system in a
decentralized vision and to identify the possibilities to increase efficiency of management
activities throughout the system, including the Ministry of Health.
At the same time the health insurance system is in the process of being organized. The
management responsibilities and especially the collection of contributions are raising problems of
efficiency in an infrastructure that is not yet fully developed.
94



2.   Financing of thle healtlh system
In order to assess the financing mechanisms of the health system, several key elements have to be
taken into account: revenue generation, equity of the redistribution of revenue between districts,
the mechanisms for improvement of the efficiency of health services. Rational, fair and equitable
criteria have to be set for redistribution of the revenue between districts, as well as transparency
in the use of these criteria.
There is a need for a clearer definition of allocation of health sector revenues from the three main
sources: state budget, special health fund and health insurance fund. The mechanisms for
collection of funds, redistribution of funds between the health insurance houses, the mechanisms
of funding of service providers all need clarification and improvements in order to ensure an
increase of efficiency and covering the needs for health care of the population.
The law also provides funding from the local budgets as incentives for physicians to practice in
underserved areas.
3.    Tlhe healthz of thie population and thie health services
Studies of the specialists from the Ministry of Health and consultants from Interhealth reveal a
mismatch between the health care needs of the population and the structures and focus of the
health services. The present health care system is characterized by an excessive number of types
of health care units, with an overburden of some services, inefficiency of others and an excessive
orientation towards inpatient hospital services, at the expense of ambulatory and community
services. This orientation has as a consequence additional unnecessary costs.
Studies also show that Romania is characterized by a high proportion of premature morbidity and
mortality. This results in high losses of healthy life years of the population (disability adjusted life
years = DALY index) with important economic consequences. The statistical analysis of the
DALY index shows that the main causes are cardiovascular diseases as well as those generated
by smoking and alcohol consumption. As a first conclusion, these are caused by an unhealthy
lifestyle, an excessive use of alcohol and tobacco as well as unhealthy nutrition.
4.   The phtysical and human resources of thte healtlh system
In addition to an organization of services poorly correlated with the heeds of health care of the
population, an other major constraint of the system is determined by the extremely critical status
of endowment with diagnostic and treatment equipment in the health system. Equipment is
morally and technically outdated or lacking altogether, thus not answering to quality
requirements. The use of existing equipment is sometimes inefficient or doesn't respond to the
needs of the local disease pattern.
Staffing problems are related to the training of specialists in family medicine, of development of
competence in health services management at the level of the Ministry of Health, Public Health
Directorates and Insurance Houses, of nursing practice and of community care.
Taking into account the issues above, the Ministry of Health regards as necessary strategic
interventions of reform in the following areas:
1. Organization and management of the health system;
2. Financing of the health system;
3. The health of the population and the health services; and
4. Rationalization of the physical and human resources.
95



Areas for strategic interventions of health services reform:
1.   Organization and management of the health system.
Objectives:
*  Establish a legal framework to reflect all changes in the system;
*  The legal framework should determine changes according to the needs and expectations of
the society;
*  The legal framework has to ensure an improvement of the functioning of the health system, to
increase efficiency and effectiveness of the system;
*  Reevaluate the role of the Ministry of Health and orient it mainly to that of a central authority
of the health systems, in charge of designing and enforcing the health policy, issue
regulations and monitoring the system; and
*  Increase the capacity of the Ministry of Health to formulate coherent health policies, in
accordance with the general objectives of the Government and perforn policy analysis for the
continuous improvement of the system
Reform actions:
The general directions of the management of the health system will be integrated in the general
strategy of the Government for medium and long term development.
In the new context of the health insurance system the role of the Ministry of Health is redefined
as generator of health policies, planner and coordinator, and the institution that controls
achievement of the health policy, in accordance with the laws.
The process of revising the legalframework of the health system and especially of the laws with
major impact (Law 145/97, Law 100/1998, Ordinance 124/1998, Government Decision regarding
the framework contract) for improving the efficiency and equity of the health system has been
started.
The Ministry of Healtlt has no longer a direct control over the funding of the largest part of the
provider framework.
Thze Ministry of Health preserves the responsibility for:
*  Administrating the state budget allocation for health, approving the financial reports of
income and expenditure and centralizing the budgetary expenditure report;
*  Administrating the health programmes of national importance;
*  Regulation of the public and private health sector;
*  Performing research for health policy and planning;
*  Provision of services contracted with the Health Insurance Houses;
*  Funding investments in buildings and medical equipment; and
*  Development of management capacity.
Administration of the budget allocation implies responsibility for 31 national health programmes
addressing health education, prevention, health promotion, primary medical care, tertiary medical
care, development of community care, allocations for buildings and equipment.
96



In the frame of health policy development the Ministry of Health will develop a national policy
on quality of medical care. In this process the Ministry of Health is involved together with the
Social Health Insurance Houses, College of Physicians, Association of Hospitals, Association of
Nurses, associations of consumers and others. The Ministry of Health needs technical assistance
for a designing a programme of accreditation of medical care providers.
2.   Financing of the health system
Objectives:
*  The financing of the health system has to ensure achievement of efficiency, equity and
coverage of health needs of the population.
*  The financing of system has to be predictable and sustainable.
Reform actions:
The financing of the health system has several sources of different size: the state budget, the
special fund for health, the social health insurance system, reimbursable and non-reimbursable
credits.
The largest proportion of funds is provided by the health insurance system. The Ministry of
Health works to ensure successful functioning of the system.
The Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance House have identified several risk
areas that have required changes and supplementary details in the legislation. In the view of the
Ministry of Health this process of revision and adaptation of the legislation has to take place
continuously.
Financing of tlze health insurance system
a) For establishting a possibility of exercising control by the National Health Insurance House
over District Insurance Houses, Law 145 has been amended through Ordinance 30/1998. This
ordinance provides that the president of the National Insurance House is a primary credit
administrator, while the president of the District Insurance House is a secondary credit
administrator. In practice this establishes a relative autonomy of the district insurance houses in
spending their funds.
b) Also througlh Ordinance 30/1998, the initialpercentage of redistribution was increased to
25% for covering better for inequities. This provision is in the process of being approved by law.
There are also discussions under way with the Ministry of Finance for establishing a clearing
mechanism (today there is only a system of transfers) between the national insurance house and
district insurance houses, or between district insurance houses, regarding costs of care for patients
from other districts. For the moment the most critical problem is the lack of an informational
system, that would allow exact assessment of amounts to be reimbursed between insurance
houses.
c) The collection system used at present is a separate system, with the district social healtlt
insurance houses being responsible for the collection offunds. In theory this system might have
higher costs and lower effectiveness, but in the year 1998, when the Ministry of Finance had this
97



responsibility and used its own systems for collection, the results were not those expected. In
addition the system that is used now was able to identify new payers.
For the time being the separate collection is preferred for a period that would allow evaluation of
advantages and disadvantages of this type of collection.
d) At present the National Health Insurance House has discussions with the College of Physicians
and the Ministry of Health for deciding on tlle payment mechlanisms proposed to be introduced
in thl e contracts witlt the service providers.
For primary care the payment mechanism was decided and introduced in the framework contract
as follows: per capita payment and fee for service in a ratio of 80/20.
For medical care at hospital level the following payment mechanism was decided: 50% of the
total according to criteria of historic budget and a percentage of 0-x% according to indicators.
The indicators to be used: average cost of hospital day, according to average length of stay of
different types of hospitals.
It was decided also that expensive investigations (computer tomography, MRI, angiography,
endoscopy) will be funded by the health insurance house only based on the use of guidelines and
with the approval of the hospital director.
It was also decided what procedures would be financed from direct payments or co-payments.
All these have been introduced in the Framework Contract. The process of revision of the funding
methods of the procedures will be continuous.
Financing from the state budget
The annual plan of financing of the health system has to ensure financial stability in
circumstances of very limited resources. This financing has to ensure that national health
programmes are carried out, salaries for the staff of certain health care units, investments in
buildings and equipment and others.
The annual plan will have to take into account the possibility of restructuring, reducing capacity
and reorienting some medical services for saving some of the unnecessary costs and increasing
the efficiency of the system.
The experience that has been acquired in the use of health financing models (developed by
consultants financed through the World Bank Programme) is been proposed to be used for a
better predictability and sustainability of financing.
In the year 1999 the approved financing according to the Budget Law 36/1999 represents 0.72%
of GDP, compared to 0.98% in 1998. This will automatically have as a consequence a severe
reduction of expenditures for capital investments and salaries of the medical staff.
The reduction of the budget as compared to forecasts of the Ministry of Health, that were anyway
very limited as compared to the real needs, represents a danger to the provision of medical
services with a major impact on the health of the population. In this context there is a clear need
that in the process of revision of the budget, supplementary funds are allocated to the Ministry of
Health.
98



Externalfinancing
The Ministry of Health, through the General Department of Health Policy and Development,
carries out the management and coordination of funds from reimbursable credits (World Bank)
and non-reimbursable credits (PHARE-European Union, non-governmental organizations and
others).
The annexes are presenting the proposals of the Ministry of Health for the new loan to be
financed by the World Bank and the programme& financed by PHARE.
3.   The health of the population and the organization of the health services
Objectives
*  Improvement of the efficiency and quality of the health services through their restructuring
and change of focus to respond better to the health care needs of the population;
*  Introduction of the context of cost-effectiveness through organization of integrated medical
services;
*  Ensure the access of the population to basic medical services; and
*  Increase the role of preventive medicine and health promotion
Reform actions
These will take into accounts tlte statistical studies regarding morbidity and mortality in
Romania, the present highi cost of medical care and the lack of correlation between the demand
for medical care of the population and the supply of medical services.
The main characteristic of the health status of the population reflects a very high premature
morbidity and mortality - typical for the transitional epidemiological model (life expectancy in
Romania is for the general population in Romania of 68.9 years, compared to the USA where it is
77 years). An additional finding is that the vast majority of diseases (cardio-vascular diseases,
other chronic diseases) are associated with behavioral factors such as smoking, alcohol
consumption, and unhealthy eating. For the female population the high rate of abortions and their
consequences are very concerning, facts that also can be related to certain types of behaviors and
attitudes.
Also among the main causes of mortality and morbidity are accidents, injuries, cancer as well as
some communicable diseases, such as TB.
The reform envisages the chiange of orientation of medical services from the present
dominance of care in the hospitals towards preventive medicine, primary medical care,
specialist ambulatory care and home care. This will result in a decrease of the number of
admissions, of average length of stay and, as a consequence, of the costs related to thlis type of
care.
The present system of medical care is excessively fragmented and functionally divided. There are
underused services and overburdened services, with important consequences on costs and quality
of care. A restructuring of the system will take these elements into account.
The Ministry of Health will impose the development of integrated medical services (primary care,
specialist care in ambulatory and hospital settings, emergency care) with the goals of increasing
99



the quality of care, a more efficient response to the requests of consumers as well as improved
cost effectiveness.
At the level of primary care the set up of group practices and integration with hospital and home
care will be encouraged. The shared use of some of the physical resources (medical equipment)
will be encouraged.
Incentives will be provided for local initiatives of community care and preventive programmes.
Integration of medical care will be achieved through the development of a coherent system of
emergency care, which will involve not only the health system, but also the local communities.
The Ministry of Health supports the development of the private sector, as an alternative to state
medicai services, by defining the legal framework of privatization. Ordinance 124/1998 regarding
medical offices has been already issued, but requires changes. The Ministry of Health has
proposed a draft, that was however rejected by the Ministry of Finance, and is now preparing a
new version as well as the norms for its implementation Translator's note: On June 30 the
Cabinet has approved through Ordinance 1 16/1999 the amendments of Ordinance 124/1998 and
the Minister of Health has issued on July 19 an order approving the norms for implementation of
this ordinance.. The alternative of the private system for hospital is now considered.
4.   Physical and human resources
Rationalization of physical and human resources has to be considered in the context of
reorganizing the medical services.
Objectives:
Rationalization ofphysical resources:
*  The infrastructure of the health system has to respond better to the health care needs of the
population; and
*  Investments in infrastructure have to be oriented towards selected essential services, with a
proven cost-effectiveness.
Rationalization of human resources:
*  Development of the training of specialists in health services management, in family medicine,
nursing and home care, as a key support for carrying out the reform;
*  Achieving European standards in training and medical practice;
*  Development of the capacity of continuous education;
*  Rational geographic distribution of human resources; and
*  Ensuring the minimum numbers of specialists required for provision of the basic package of
services
Reform actions
Plhysical resources:
The main change will be the shift of types of care from dominance of services provided inside the
hospital towards ambulatory care, day or home care.
100



Tlhis measure will lead to closures of departments or even hospitals and to alternative
development of otlher services (departments for day services, home care and oth?ers) with
favorable economic consequences. In this direction, thle approval in Parliament of the Hospital
Law has to be accelerated Translator's note: The Law of Hospitals has been passed in early July
1999..
It is necessary to review the categories of service providers (medical units) with the goal of
getting a more efficient response to the needs of the population.
For the improvement of the infrastructure, with the goal of achieving an acceptable level of the
quality of medical care, massive investments in buildings and equipment are required, far beyond
what Romania can afford at present. Thus, the estimated costs for rehabilitation of buildings (for
ca 70000 beds) amount to ca USD 800 million, with another ca USD 1700 million for equipment
(for 70000 beds).
Under these circumstances there will have to be careful planning and analysis of investments, to
fit with a general plan of reorganization.
To support the investments in the health system, the Ministry of Health will take action for
attracting external reimbursable and non-reimbursable financing.
For the improvement of the use of loans, the Ministry of Health intends to create a revolving
fund, which would increase the responsibility of the final beneficiary of the funds, who would
have to return in time the money received from the loan. This will require appropriate legislative
regulation.
The Ministry of Health has already initiated discussions with the World Bank for financing
from a new loan of USD 100 million a project to cover the main directions of reform of the
system (financing of the health system, integrated primary, secondary and emergency care,
programmes of preventive and community medicine). The program is designed to develop
in two phases, with the goals of vertical rehabilitation of the system in 5 pilot districts and
horizontal rehabilitation of the national emergency system.
Hnuan resources
It is necessary to strengthen the capacity and competencies of the Ministry of Health in the field
of human resources policy.
Programmes of training for newly demanded competencies have to be developed: family
medicine, nursing, and management.
Development of the process of accreditation of staff.
Development of the continuous education programmes, through the establishment of a national
service for continuous education.
Development of multi-annual programmes of human resources rationalization.
101



IMPLEMENTATION OF REFORM
The most important activities of the Reform Strategy of the Health Sector will have as goals:
*  Solving the priority health problems of the population by ensuring good quality and
economically efficient services; and
*  Ensuring a sustainable and equitable financing.
The experience of implementation of reform in other countries of the region shows that a phased
approach of reform implementation has higher chances of success, compared to a single step
approach.
In a first phase:
*  The detailed legislative framework will be established as well as all the necessary regulations
for determining the changes, according to social needs and expectations, in order to support
the improvement of the health system;
*  The management capacity of the health insurance system, Ministry of Health and the health
system in general will be developed;
*  The functional integration of health services will be stimulated, in order to improve their
quality and efficiency; and
*  Models of payment of providers will be developed.
In the second phase:
*  Development of the implementation of the health insurance system, in a favorable legislative
framework;
*  Development of the system of integrated services, building on the experience accumulated in
the first phase;
*  Development of national programmes of accreditation and quality assurance; and
*  Development of coherent health policies (national health programmes, drug policy and
others).
102



Annex 14: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
ROMANIA HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
The Project will seek to increase the probability of favorable impacts on health status, favorable
impacts on the most needy segments of the society.
Most of the key institutions are new to the roles expected of them. There is a tendency to over-
estimate the available capacity relative to the required level of effort. A certain confusion exists
in the population at large and among health professionals about the real purpose of health sector
reform (particularly the 1997 Health Insurance Law) and its potential effects on them. As part of
Project preparation, these issues were examined in some detail through a study of public
expectations, beliefs and attitudes towards the heath sector. (Charney Research, Relationships and
Resources: Public Perspectives on Romania's Health Care System and Insurance Law.
September, 1998, available in Project files). The main findings of the study are summarized in the
table below.
* A review of the main stakeholders in the Romanian health care system
*  Political parties: do not have defined policies for health. Often, members of the same party
would vote differently on a given issue. The vote is not homogeneous within a party and is
not necessarily correlated with the societal values that the party is promoting.
*  The College of Physicians: an organization where doctors should compulsorily register, as
provided by a 1996 law. The many powers and duties assigned by law to this organization
are creating conflicts of interest with other organizations.
*  Federative Chamber of Physicians: the trade union of doctors: struggling to keep its
traditional trade union role versus the trade union role assumed by the College of Physicians.
*  Romanian Hospital Association: an association of hospital managers. It has grown in the last
few years, mainly due to the financial pressures on hospitals.
*  Romanian Association of Nurses: a professional association of nurses that is promoting a
change of culture in the profession of nurses, developing training programs and projects for
change.
*  The Trade Union of Nurses: plays the traditional role of a trade union.
*  The Romanian Medical Association, the College of Pharmacists, the Society of General
Practitioners, all acting more or less successfully in shaping the process of health policy-
making.
*  Specialized NGOs: have specialized in working at delivering health arrd sociat services. The
are focusing mainly in areas as health promotion, family planning, AIDS, community care,
etc.
The findings of the study pointed to the need to engage a wide range of organizations and
influential individuals in a process of building consensus around a strategy for the health sector.
The Romania Health Sector Reform Study, funded by PHRD Grant TF027124 (available in
project files), was conducted using a participatory approach, and has helped to facilitate the
MOH's development of a health sector strategy, approved by Ministers in 1999. The
Government and the Bank, in cooperation with USAID, are using the findings of this study to
guide planning for sector reform and advocacy, and a public information campaign about key
elements of health reform.
103



Improving Equity in Health and Access to Health Services
Inequities are evident in terms of access to health services. The decision to focus on improving
the quality of primary health care, particularly in rural areas, and essential hospital services,
particularly in lower income judets, was informed by a social assessment of poverty carried out in
Romania (WB Report No. 16462-RO, Romania, Poverty and Social Policy, April 1997). The
assessment examined issues about the access of the poor and of urban and rural populations to
health services of different types. It also examined the distribution of health expenditure.
The assessment found that the majority of the poor receive health care from primary health care
dispensaries. The proportion of poor seeking care from dispensaries is higher in rural than urban
areas. However, as households get richer, they circumvent the primary care system and go
directly to polyclinics and hospitals. In rural areas, the substitution is towardshospitals while
urban households tend to substitute towards polyclinics. In large part, the increased utilization of
a higher level of care reflects the inadequacies in the primary health care system. Many
dispensaries have poor infrastructure and are both ill-equipped and under-staffed. In fact, as
households get richer, they by-pass the public system all together and seek care from private
providers, an expression of choice based on perceived quality, willingness and ability to pay for
services.
In its examination of the targeting of health spending, the assessment found that the distribution
of total spending is weakly non-poor. The poor receive a greater proportion of total health
spending than their share in total income (proxied by consumption), but a much smaller
proportion of the total health spending than their share in total population. Spending for primary
health care is the least regressive of all health spending. Public spending on hospitals is also
weakly non-poor. The distribution of the spending on polyclinic is strongly non-poor especially
at lower levels of income. Not only do the poor receive a smaller absolute amount of public
spending on polyclinics, they receive an even smaller share of the polyclinic spending than their
share in income.
The assessment concluded that the quality of primary health care system could be instrumental in
improving the health status of the poorest groups.
A similar, more recent analysis, performed by Cornelia Tesliuc, in her Ph.D. Thesis, Health Care
Economics and Financing Options (Bucharest, 1999), finds that spending on hospital services is
more pro-poor than on primary care. However, her survey data did not allow dispensary spending
to be distinguished from polyclinic spending. The preliminary results of a new study of poverty
currently under preparation by the Bank, are similar to those of Tesliuc, but also dcr not
distinguish dispensary and primary care spending.
Although the available studies do not provide a detailed analysis, there are some grounds for
thinking that the poor in rural areas rely more heavily on dispensaries for health care (in part
because of lack of access to transport), while urban poor rely more on use of hospital emergency
rooms as a form of primary care. Improving the quality of diagnostic services which support
primary care, improving communication and transport linkages between primary care and
hospitals, and improving emergency hospital services might also be expected to benefit the access
of the poor to acceptable quality health care, and assist in improving their health status. These
dimensions of integrated health services are addressed in components 2,3 and 4 of the project.
104



The Project will contribute to poverty alleviation by emphasizing primary health care and priority
public health interventions, as well as a more efficient and needs-based approach to resource
allocation and management. The Project's emphasis on the biggest health problems will cover
gender issues in the following ways by emphasizing: (i) the continuing problems of access to an
effective range of reproductive health services (as part of PHC services and as part of a package
of services supported by Component 5of the Project which targets STD and HIV/AIDS
prevention); and (ii) the problems of high adult male mortality rates, which current scientific
literature indicate are caused largely by preventable accidents and the effects of tobacco, lung
cancer, stroke.
105






IBRD 28758
I~~~~~~                                                             ~         ~~~~ K    I   N E 
-sa  <  r  (,  _ * _> * , x, \ O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                                             SELECTED CITIES 
iHU NG A RY                              .                                                                                  0     %.BTOSA I>    f                           COUNTY (JUDETI CENTERS
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SA TU                                      Balo tAireAM.URES..   CE A, 3< COUNTY (JUDET) BCUNDARIESi
.   \ MARE    J                      .                                                             _                            --INTERNATIONlAL BOUNDARIES 
r  v-< BI~~~~~~~~~3STRITA-                                                                   1 ;  >s  A  S I  
,}   Orade  <>    ZaaS    A L  f-A'l     NASASD','              *        -       NEAM TPar                                                   2KlLO0 UETERI
,  B I H O R    >  \-.>   8_.   *   * g                     7           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.-Om Ror on .3,,.>) \    0 1         0     4O   0  50  60
r r J ~~~CLUJ t
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ d_                                                                                            B.               V.                         Th;ul-Np:ca j- -., _. M. Ous 
J  '    o--~~-st   tt._*    TllldaO    f         3irsuM9revf~HARGHITA         )Bacu A             AU          VA L I                               -1- 8nUnrrlsOd-Ol- -
i  ~/ALDt LB  r*e.ueuJ@L)   nhtSioiawi
4b\ ~   ~~~~~~ R A D ...   ,                         _wlui"J>iCVANi\  
!~~~~~~~~A.                                                                                                                                           0 BTIMIS                  h. 1.O   d ESbu +  .   Gerh  s  RNE  < GLT
,i rinliso~~~~~~~~~~~ArLUq                                                                                                                                               ueol. S....... ......... BRAS V  D    t.-f .  t>U        
(   ,  O  A r ,  ,  * < Ga4. jX / \_~~~~O     .di.
z  SEVERIN            Irgu lu<3      .82 V~~/  sI   E   i u                      S6U  X                                                            F  
u' ( S E R B I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~     A /ION      N E GRO>j   _tv S t    



