Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4568 RO
Loan Agreement
(Health Sector Reform Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 7, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4568 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2000, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received letters dated July 15, 1999 and 
February 16, 2000 from the Borrower describing a two-phased program of 
policies and actions (the Program) designed to achieve reforms in the 
Borrower’s health sector;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution 
of the two phases of the Program through extension to the Borrower of 
Loans up to the equivalent of sixty million Dollars ($60,000,000) over a 
period of five (5) years;
(C)
in order to assist in financing of the Project, the 
Borrower: (i) intends to obtain from United Kingdom Department for 
International Development (DFID) a grant equivalent in value to an amount 
of around £600,000 (the DFID Grant) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DFID (the 
DFID Grant Agreement); (ii) intends to obtain from the Swiss Development 
Corporation (SDC) a grant equivalent in value to an amount of around 
$500,000 (the SDC Grant) on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
Page  2
agreement entered into between the Borrower and SDC (the SDC Grant 
Agreement); and (iii) intends to obtain from the Soros Foundation a grant 
equivalent in value to an amount of around $700,000 (the Soros Grant) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and Soros (the Soros Foundation Grant Agreement);  
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), which the Project forms
the first phase of the Program, 
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modification set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified 
to read as follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AIDS/HIV” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome/Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), and (3); 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, providing for the 
environmental impacts of the Project and proposed mitigation measures;
(e)
“GOR” means the Government of Romania;
Page  3
(f)
“Judet” means the Borrower’s administrative district;
(g)
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower; 
(h)
“MOI” means the Ministry of the Interior of the Borrower 
which includes the Fire Department;
(i)
“NHIH” means National Health Insurance House established 
pursuant to Law 145 dated July 24, 1997;
(j)
“Pilot Judet” means Judets of Arges, Botosani, Dolj, 
Harghita, Covasna and Tulcea;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(l)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established under 
MOH;
(m)
“PHC” means the Primary Health Care; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(o)
“STD” means sexually transmitted diseases.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to forty million Dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 1, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent 
(1%) of the amount of the Loan.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
Page  4
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in U.S. dollars for value the first day of 
such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or 
next preceding the first day 
of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
through MOH with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  5
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, environmental and 
health care practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, acting through MOH, shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower, acting through MOH, and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, acting through MOH, shall establish 
and maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, acting through MOH, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
Page  6
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower, acting through MOH, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, acting through MOH, shall carry out 
a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than May 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower, acting through MOH, shall 
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
 (a)
The DFID Grant Agreement, the SDC Grant or the Soros 
Foundation Grant shall have failed to become effective by March 31, 2001, 
or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
the DFID Grant, SDC 
Grant or the Soros 
Foundation Grant shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
DFID Grant 
Agreement, the SDC Grant Agreement or 
the Soros Foundation Grant, 
respectively.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any 
of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date 
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
Facsimile:
Page  8
11239
401 312 6792
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year 
first above written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Goods
  33,880,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
Page  9
expenditures
(ex-factory 
cost)
and 84% of 
local
expenditures 
for
other items 
procured
locally
(2)
Technical Assistance
   1,690,000
100%
and Training
(3)
Specialized Technical
     360,000
100%
Services under Part E.2(e) of
the Project
(4)
Unallocated
   4,070,000
TOTAL
  40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “specialized technical services” means publications 
and mass media for public health information campaigns under Part E.2(e) 
of the Project, which are procured in accordance with the provisions of 
guidelines for procurement of goods as set forth in paragraph 1 of Part C 
of Schedule 4 of this Loan Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3) 
and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule until the 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of the Agreement has been paid.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) 
consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts 
with individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower; (d) training under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each; and (e) specialized technical services under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 each.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower, acting through MOH, shall open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
Page  10
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
Page  11
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests 
for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the 
aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the  Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  12
Description of the Project
The Project is to support the first phase of the Borrower’s Program 
which aims at lowering morbidity and premature deaths, providing 
equitable access to health services and improving efficiency of the 
health sector.
The objectives of the Project are:
(1)
improving the capacity for policy, planning, regulation, finance 
and management in the health sector;
(2)
improving quality, cost-effectiveness and technical efficiency of 
PHC in selected poor and remote areas, essential hospital and ambulatory 
health care services and emergency medical services; and
(3)
modernization of public health services in the areas of tobacco 
control, tuberculosis prevention, AIDS/HIV prevention, STD prevention and 
community-based mental health care.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Planning and Regulation of the Health Care Delivery System
(1)
Development of health service plans in all judets. 
(2)
Policy development and strengthening capacity in MOH in health 
services planning and regulation.
Part B:
District and Teaching Hospitals:  Upgrade of Essential 
Services
Upgrading of operating theaters and intensive care units and 
provision of training in clinical management of emergency cases in twenty 
four (24) district and teaching hospitals. 
Part C:
Primary Health Care Development.
(1)
Development of national policy for vocational training, 
accreditation/certification, and continuing medical education for 
professionals in the PHC system.
(2)
Carrying out continuing medical education for PHC teams in selected 
poor and remote areas.
(3)
Development and local adaptation of evidence-based guidelines for 
diagnosis treatment and referral for common conditions encountered in PHC 
in Romania.
(4)
Equipping of dispensaries in selected poor and remote areas.
(5)
Equipping of hospitals ambulatory centers to support PHC in six 
selected pilot judets. 
Part D:
Emergency Medical Services
Page  13
Provision of equipment and technical assistance to community-based 
emergency medical services teams. 
Part E:
Public Health and Disease Control and Information Campaigns
(1)
Strengthening the MOH’s capacity to develop a public health 
strategy, upgrade the public health infrastructure, and implement 
morbidity and mortality codes in accordance with international standards.
(2)
Carrying out public health interventions in priority areas, 
including: (a) measures to reduce tobacco consumption; (b) development of 
a modern tuberculosis control strategy; (c) implementation of AIDS/HIV 
and STD awareness, education and screening diagnostic programs;  (d) 
establishment of a demonstration site for community-based mental health 
services; and (e) provision of specialized technical services to support 
public health information and awareness campaigns. 
Part F:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, training and goods, including 
vehicles, to assist MOH and PMU in project management and implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)** 
March 15, 2006
  795,000
September 15, 2006
  825,000
March 15, 2007
  850,000
September 15, 2007
  880,000
March 15, 2008
  910,000
September 15, 2008
  940,000
March 15, 2009
  970,000
September 15, 2009
1,000,000
March 15, 2010
1,035,000
September 15, 2010
1,070,000
March 15, 2011
1,105,000
September 15, 2011
1,140,000
March 15, 2012
1,180,000
September 15, 2012
1,220,000
March 15, 2013
1,260,000
September 15, 2013
1,300,000
March 15, 2014
1,345,000
September 15, 2014
1,390,000
March 15, 2015
1,435,000
September 15, 2015
1,485,000
March 15, 2016
1,535,000
September 15, 2016
1,585,000
March 15, 2017
1,640,000
September 15, 2017
1,695,000
March 15, 2018
1,750,000
September 15, 2018
1,805,000
March 15, 2019
1,865,000
September 15, 2019
1,930,000
Page  14
March 15, 2020
1,995,000
September 15, 2020
2,065,000
________________________
**
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Specialized technical services under Part E.2(e) of the Project up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 (net of taxes) equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
Page  15
the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $400,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract: (i) for goods to be procured 
in accordance with procedures referred to in Part B of this schedule and 
(ii) for specialized technical services to be procured in accordance with 
procedures referred to in Part C.1. of this schedule the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (a) the first two contracts for goods to be 
procured in accordance with procedures referred to in Part C.2. of this 
schedule; (b) the first two contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with procedures referred to in Part C.3. of this schedule; and 
(c) each contract for goods to be procured in accordance with procedures 
referred to in Part C.4. of this schedule  the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
Page  16
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
 1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $90,000 (net of taxes) equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ qualification
Services for the design and conceptualization of specialized 
technical services under Part E.2(e) of the Project up to an aggregate 
amount of $100,000 (net of taxes) shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  17
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower, acting through MOH, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about January 1, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by January 1, 2002, or such later date 
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower, acting through 
Page  18
MOH, shall maintain the PMU with such staff and resources as shall be 
required for the PMU to perform its duties in respect of the overall 
management and implementation of the Project.
3.
The Borrower, shall assign the general responsibility for 
management of Project implementation to MOH which shall:
(a)
establish through the order of the Minister of Health which 
directorates are involved in supporting the implementation of the Project 
in collaboration with NHIH and the MOI and with other legal entities 
specified by the order and agreeable to the Bank; and 
(b)
establish no later than August 31, 2000, an implementation 
task force in each judet involved in activities under Part D of the 
Project.
4.
The Borrower, acting through MOH, shall ensure that all measures 
necessary for the carrying out of the Environmental Management Plan shall 
be taken in a timely manner.
