FILE COpy                            Document of
c§LE  aEpt          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.
EDr',--.A.,.O   Ern_9r
nS  i3 -   *'  t -' -- ';N; %
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SECOND NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
June 24, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Tanzania Sh  =   US$0.12
US$1.00          TSh8.30
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh8.30 which is close to the
short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
Ardhi      -   Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
Development
Government -   Government of Tanzania
NSSP       -   National Sites and Services Program
SIDO       -   Small Industries Development Organization
SSI        -   Small Scale Industry
TANU       -   Tanganyika African National Union
THB        -   Tanzania Housing Bank



TANZANIA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                   US$12.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                   Standard IDA terms
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:      The project consists of provision of infra-
structure services to areas including about
16,000 houses in existing squatter neighbor-
hoods, preparation of-about 19,000 surveyed
plots in planned residential layouts, com-
munity facilities in the upgraded areas, house
improvement and construction loans, an
experimental program assisting the informal
sector in two project towns, and provision
for equipment/vehicles and technical assis-
tance to support the various project components.
Together, these components represent a major
proportion of the Government's National Sites
and Services Program over the next three years.
PROJECT COSTS:                                      (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Compensation          .7          -          .7
Infrastructure       4.3         3.3        7.6
Community
Facilities           .8         .3        1.1
Technical
Assistance           .5        1.1        1.6
Vehicles and
Equipment            .1         .3         .4
Sub-Total        6.4        5.0       11.4
House Improvement
and Construction
Loans (THB)         9.2        3.1       12.3
Small-Scale Indus-
try Development
(SIDO)               .4        1.1        1.5
Base Total      16.0        9.2       25.2
Physical               .8         .6        1.4
Price                 1.8         .9        2.7
TOTAL          18.6        10.7       29.3



% of Project
PROJECT FINANCING:                          US$ million        Cost
Government            4.7               16
Tanzania Housing
Bank                 12.6               43
IDA                  12.0              41
Total            $29.3              100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEKENTS:                 (US$ million)        Cumulative
Amount     Cumulative    % of Total
FY78         .5           .5            2
FY79        5.7         6.2            51
FY80        4.7        10.9            90
FY81        0.9        11.8            98
FY82        0.2        12.0           100
Retroactive financing of up to an aggregate of $200,000
is recommended for the study of the Land Rent and Service
Charge Act and for consultant services related to de-
tailed design and engineering incurred after May 1, 1977.
CONSULTANCY SERVICES:     Project design and supervision services are esti-
mated on the basis of the percentage of value of
works involved and therefore only a total cost is
estimated (US$0.8 million). Outside of this category,
the project includes about 249 additional man-months
of consultancy services estimated to cost $3200 per
man-month (excluding contingencies). Consultancy
services will be utilized for training of Tanzanian
personnel in executing agencies, management support,
project monitoring and evaluation, a study of the Land
Rent and Service Charge Act and preparation of a follow-
up project. Coopers and Lybrand was chosen by Ardhi
to undertake the study of the Land Rent and Service
Charge Act and M. Patel was recently selected for project
design and supervision. The remaining consultant
services have not been hired.
RATE OF RETURN:           The weighted average economic rate of return of the
upgrading and surveyed plot components is 23%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:         Report No. 1518-TA, dated June 9. 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SECOND NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit 'the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of US$12.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second National
Sites and Services Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY_'
Introduction
2.        The last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in 1972. While it has been some five years,
therefore, since the last comprehensive economic report was issued, a
substantial volume of economic and sector work has been carried out during
this period. An agricultural sector report was issued in December 1974.
A three-volume industry and mining sector report and a special economic
study on the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decentralization of Govern-
ment were distributed in April 1975. In early 1974, at the Government's
invitation, Bank personnel participated in a special task force which
assessed the impact of the increase in petroleum prices on the Tanzanian
economy. A further analysis of recent economic developments was contained in
the Program Loan President's Report (No. 1517a-TA of November 25, 1974), and
the Government's progress in implementing policies and programs designed to
close the balance of payments gap was reported in a special memorandum to
the Executive Directors (SecM76-687) in September 1975. In March 1976,
also at the request of the Government, Bank staff assisted a Government
task force in the preparation of a report which analyzed the fiscal impli-
cations of the new targets for universal primary education and universal
rural water supply. These sector reports and special economic studies
have formed the basis for our dialogue on economic policy issues with the
Government and for the development of our program of operations. Finally,
a basic economic mission was conducted in July-August 1976. The basic
economic report is currently under preparation and it will be discussed
with the Government in August 1977.    An updating report on the Tanzanian
economy based on the interim findings of the basic mission was issued in
connection with the recent Consultative Group Meeting on Tanzania (No. 1567-TA,
dated April 12, 1977).
1/ This section is essentially the same as that of the President's ReDort on the
Tanzania Rural Development Project (Tabora), dated April 14, 1977.



-2-
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is virtually unrivaled
in Africa. The TANU1/ party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early
1950s. For the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration of early 1967,
Tanzania has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the
eradication of absolute poverty, and economic and social transformation.
The fundamental strategy underlying Tanzania's development has emphasized
rural development,social ownership of the principal means of production, and
full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution. In restructuring the political,
economic and social life of the country the leadership has introduced
a series of far-reaching institutional reforms.    The most important
of these measures are well known: most large-scale units in manufacturing,
finance and wholesale trade have been nationalized; the Government has
sharply increased its share of revenue in GDP through progressive taxation;
a significant portion of public expenditure control has been delegated to
the regions and districts; and incomes policy has prevented a further widen-
ing of the urban-rural gap and has narrowed wage differentials within the
former urban sector. There is also state intervention in market pricing;
prices of capital, labor, land, imports, industrial and agricultural products
and consumer goods are controlled directly and by indirect methods such as
import licensing.
4.        With a per capita income of $170 in 1975, Tanzania is classified as
one of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations (country
data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at factor
cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population growing
at 2.7 percent per annum per capita output was rising at only 1.8 percent
per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP whlile gross
investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP, extremely high
rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The growth
rate of GDP was not commensurate with the magnitude of the investment effort,
however, in part because of the high proportion of investment which was
directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and social services projects such
as the transportation links with Zambia, but also because of sluggish growth
in the agricultural sector and stagnant or declining productivity in para-
statal enterprises. During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments
sittation was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance of
- TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar political
party (the Afro-Sharazi Party) in February 1977. The new party is now called
Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



-3-
the export sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated
by increasing capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft
terms. The overall balance of payments was in surplus in most years during
1969-73, resulting in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to
slightly over $150 million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost
four months' imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis, caused in part by drought and dramatic import price escalation.
Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused major declines in pro-
duction and marketing of the major foodgrains. In response the Government
was compelled during 1974 to import large quantities of grain, particularly
maize, on commercial terms in order to alleviate the hardships inflicted
by drought. Tanzania's main export crops were also affected by the drought,
and the resultant declines in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking
advantage of the commodity price boom during 1974. On the import side,
total cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent between 1973 and
1974, despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of these factors
the trade deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340 million in
1974 while the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus to a deficit
of $140 million.-' Industrial production also stagnated in 1974 due to
shortages of imported raw materials resulting from the growing foreign
exchange constraint, and to interruptions in power and water supplies.
While production declined, domestic demand increased rapidly because of
expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance between
domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in import
prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Although the severity and suddenness of the crisis were largely
the result of forces outside Tanzania's control, many of the problems were
foreshadowed by longer-term economic trends which, at least partially, were
subject to Tanzanian control. One important adverse trend was in the com-
position of growth; the rate of growth of material production had been
falling for several years and the overall GDP growth rate had been maintained
only by an acceleration in the growth of services, particularly of public
administration. Much of the slump in agricultural production was due to poor
weather but the average growth rate of agricultural output failed to exceed
the rate of growth of population for the six years prior to the harvest failure
/ The overall balance of payments gap was financed largely through drawings
from the IMF (gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974 Oil Facility) and
by a rapid depletion of reserves which fell to $60 million (net) at the
end of 1974, equivalent to only one month's import requirements.



-4-
of 1974. The villagization program which was accelerated during this period
inevitably caused some disruption in agricultural production, in part because
of inadequate planning and preparation. In the modern sector many enterprises
experienced declining labor productivity which has been attributed to lack of
incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore, while
the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960.s, reaching a high
of 18 percent in 1970, it had declined to 15 percent by 1973. Public savings
were also falling as a share of GDP, mainly due to the slow growth of paras-
tatal enterprises' surpluses and the rapid increase in government recurrent
expenditures.
The Government's Response to the Economic Crisis
7.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized the
Government formulated a comprehensive program of policy actions to bring
the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of the develop-
ment effort. The principal elements of the program include a reallocation
of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures to raise
agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and private
consumption. This program was reviewed with the Bank at the time of appraisal
and negotiation of the program loan in late 1974, and approval of that loan
was based on the Bank's agreement with and support for the proposed program.
The Government has, over the past two years, successfully carried out most
of this program, as described below.
8.        From mid-1974 the Government tightened import controls, particularly
for consumer goods and industrial raw materials. Imports were curtailed
drastically and liquor and tobacco imports were banned. Import licensing
was further tightened in 1975, leading to sharp volume declines in imports
of consumer goods, including textiles and industrial raw materials and
spare parts. In addition, the Government took further politically difficult
steps to slow down the rate of growth of private consumption demand. Retail
prices of basic foodstuffs were raised sharply in late 1974. Indirect taxes
on textiles, beer and cigarettes have been progressively increased since 1975
to absorb excess consumer demand for these items. User charges for water and
electricity have also been raised. An extremely restrictive wage and salary
policy has also been followed since May 1974.
9.        On the production side, the Government has taken a number of steps
to stimulate agricultural production. The share of Government development
expenditure allocated to the agricultural sector has increased from 16 percent
in 1973/74 to 23 percent in 1976/77. During late 1974 and 1975 the Government
urged farmers to grow more food under the campaign "farming as a matter of
life and death." The Government also announced substantial increases in
agricultural producer prices in May and November 1974 and established an
agricultural price review unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. Producer
prices were again increased in 1975 and 1976.



10.       The Government has also made significant progress during the last
three fiscalyears in reallocating public investment in favor of the directly
productive sectors of agriculture (cited above), industry and mining.l/ This
fundamental restructuring of public investment necessarily means that
relatively less investment resources are available for other sectors, in
particular for primary education and rural water supply. In recognition of
this fact, and also because the recurrent and capital cost requirements of
these targets would be entirely unmanageable even under normal economic cir-
cumstances if they were to be implemented using past methods, the Government
is stressing the need for local self-help, particularly in village school
construction, lower cost delivery systems based on lower design standards,
and considering the development of appropriate cost recovery mechanisms.
Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
11.       The major macroeconomic indicators   have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather and the effects of the policy measures
which were introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in
1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent in
1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton and
some other cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villagiza-
tion. In 1976, some of the problems of villagization were being rectified
through "operation correction" and since rains were once again favorable
agricultural production was generally good. Preliminary estimates are that
both agricultural production and total GDP increased by about 5 percent in
1976. However, output in the modern sectors 9f industry and construction
has remained at a depressed level, in part due to shortages of building
supplies, raw materials and spare parts occasioned by the severe import
restrictions which have been imposed to conserve scarce foreign exchange.
12.       The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties, declines
in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to import food for
part of the year. As a result of these trends the trade deficit increased
from $340 million in 1974 to $400 million in 1975, and even after allowing
for a high level of project-related capital inflows and a huge increase in
grant assistance and concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of
almost $75 million. Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost
entirely through a combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the
1975 deficit was met through foreign assistance from a wide variety of
sources, including a $30 million program loan from the World Bank. In 1976
/ The Bank Group has supported this effort by significantly increasing the
proportion of our own lending to these sectors over the past three years.
See Part II for details.



-6-
the balance of payments picture improved. The trade deficit declined
due to strong export performance, especially for coffee and cotton, and
to a slight fall in the value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened
need for foodgrain imports and continuing tight restrictions on all other
categories of imports. The overall balance of payments is expected to
show a surplus of about $35 million for the year and net foreign exchange
reserves have increased to $115 million which is equivalent to two months'
import requirements at the 1976 level, a modest improvement over end-1975
but still an inadequate level. Because of the very concessional terms
on which aid has been given to Tanzania, and the Government's refusal to
use higher cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the overall debt
service ratio has remained low -- including a notional 40 percent share
of the debt of the East African Community Corporations, it was less than
8 percent in 1975.
Major Issues for the Future
13.       Tanzania's prospects for regaining control over its balance
of payments deficit in the medium term clearly depend upon the
effectiveness of the overall program of policy actions outlined above.
However, the economic restructuring involved will require time
before its full effects can be realized. The central focus of the
assistance efforts should therefore be to ensure that balance of payments
gaps arising over the next few years do not prevent Tanzania from
implementing a development program designed to incorporate the required
policy changes.  In addition, and despite   Tanzania's   domestic
savings performance, a continued capital inflow in excess of the foreign
exchange component of high priority projects will also be required if
Tanzania is to achieve its development targets. Financing of some
local expenditures will, therefore, be justified. In addition, even
though the general thrust of the Government's policy framework is
correct, the Government recognizes that further adjustments are
required to deal with the severe constraints to growth which still
remain. Declining labor productivity (especially in the parastatal
sector) and low capacity utilization have contributed to the slow
growth of material production. The emergence of underutilized capacity
is partly due to the shortage of foreign exchange for spare parts and
materials and can only be alleviated in the short run by increased
external aid providing quick-disbursing, freely-usable foreign
exchange. In this connection a Program Credit of $15 million was
recently approved by the Executive Directors. The longer-term problem
of low labor productivity and parastatal inefficiency is, however, more
complex. Although the Government is now fully conscious of these
problem areas it has so far only been able to initiate steps to deal
with them. Another major weakness which has become apparent in recent
months is the difficulty the Treasury is having in keeping expenditure
within budgeted limits and avoiding over overcommitment. The Treasury,
however, is beginning to take steps to institute controls and there
are hopeful signs that expenditure priorities are being sorted out.
Furthermore, the Government is searching for new delivery systems for
social services and is taking self-help and cost recovery seriously.
Another problem area which was highlighted by the economic crisis is the
poor performance of exports. Since the economic crisis the Government's
attitude has changed and some measures to stimulate exports have been
taken. Further efforts, however, are required over the medium and
long-term.



-7-
East African Community
14.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions,
policies, and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure serv4ces, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been
followed, however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the
distribution of net benefits derived from the Community. The infrastructure
services were hampered by restrictive tariff policies; services declined; and
Partner States subventions were required for the Railways from time to time to
keep the services running. The poor performance of the common services in
transport and communications also impaired trade and general movement of goods
within the countries, affecting the general economic development program.
These difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary and balance of pay-
ments constraints faced by all three Partner States in the past few years. As
a consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in the authority of the
Community institutions. Failure to agree on arrangements for transfer of funds
between the Regional Offices and the service Headquarters has often paralyzed
the operatiom of the Headquarters, affected their morale and on a number of
occasions led to delays in meeting their external obligations.
15.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental poli-
tical and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community
that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed
for this purpose in November 1975 but adjourned in November 1976 without being
able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future structure of the EAC.
Meanwhile, the continued deterioration in Community relationships has led to
a further dismantling of the Corporations. The Railway Headquarters has in
effect been disbanded and the nationals working in the Headquarters have
joined their respective Regional Offices. Recently, the East African Airways
Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of effective mechanisms
for interstate transfer of funds. The Headquarters of the East African
Harbours has existed in name only for at least a year with the ports authorities
in Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously. The East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation has so far functioned with a semblance of
Headquarters responsibilities but is now fast delegating its headquarters
functions to its Regional Offices. However, the respective regional branches
providing the services and domestic development programs in this sector are
not likely to be impaired.
16.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure of the Partner States
in meeting debt service obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year
for about a month. Except for a second line of credit to the EADB in March
1976, the other corporations have received no new loans from the Bank since
1973. But the Bank has continued to disburse on its five ongoing loans to the
Corporations and as of April 30, 1977, $36.9 million remains undisbursed.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA-
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, TDA ane IFC in 1962.   Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 27 liDA credits, 12 Bank loans and two
Third Window'laansamounting to $469.8 million have so far been approved for
Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling
$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of the common
services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and
Uganda through their association in the East African Community.    The only
IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made to
the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains summary statements of
Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African Community organi-
zations,as of April 30, 1977,and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of the 24 Tan-
zanian operations approved since then all but seven were for directly pro-
ductive projects. In general the infrastructure projects which have been
approved in recent years have been designed to support specific, directly
productive activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan
No. 1354-TA), approved in January 1977, will support the recently approved
Industrial Complex Project in Morogoro. The directly productive projects are
supporting both the agricultural and industrial sectors, including the Kigoma
Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA), the National MIaize
Project (Credit No. 606-TA), the Fisheries Development Project (Credit No.
652-TA), the Tanzania Investment Bank Project (Loan No. 1172-TA), the Mwanza
Textile Project (Loan No. 1128-TA), and the Morogoro Industrial Complex Pro-
ject. The first Bank Group-assisted project in the forestry sector, the Sao
Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), was recently approved and will
provide the raw material for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant, presentiy
under preparation for consideration by the Bank Group for financing, A
Program Credit, which would provide for imports of essential capital,
intermediate goods and raw materials for the public and private sectors,
was recently approved by the Board. Projects under preparation include a
Rural Development Project for Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions, a National
Agricultural Development Project, a Second Cashewnut Processing Project,
a third line of credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank, a Second Textile
Project, and a Trucking Industry Project.
1/   This section is the same as that of the President's Report on the
Tanzania Rural Development Project (Tabora),dated April 14, 1977.



-9-
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Background
19.       While Tanzania is and will remain for some time an overwhelmingly
rural country, it has seen a marked increase in the growth of its urban areas
since independence. With an urban growth rate of about 9%, the proportion
of its total population in urban areas increased from approximately 5% in
1967 to 9% in 1976. Both census and survey data indicate that this growth
reflects primarily migration rather than natural population increase, re-
sulting from both the slow growth in agricultural output (para 6) and the
continuation of large urban-rural income differentials (in spite of the
Government's many initiatives aimed at their reduction). Dar es Salaam
(population 590,000) is by far the country's largest city, followed by Arusha
and Tanga (approximately 94,000 each).
20.       This growing urbanization has created a number of serious problems
in Tanzania. Extreme housing shortages have developed in major urban areas
and unplanned squatter settlements have proliferated. It is presently esti-
mated that between 40 - 70% of the residents in Tanzania's major towns live
in squatter settlements. Pressures on existing social infrastructure and com-
munity facilities are intense. Infrastructure in the squatter areas is in-
adequate or lacking and their residents typically have access to far lower
standards of community facilities. Another consequence has been the large
increase in urban unemployment. After projecting the expansion of regular
and informal employment and the growth in the labor force, it is estimated
that overall unemployment rose from approximately 8% in 1969 to 17% in 1976.
As this period was also marked by increased underemployment, these figures
underestimate the seriousness of Tanzaniats employment problem.
21.       Since Tanzania's socialist strategy and its many policy actions
have focused almost entirely on the rural sector, these developments have not
occurred within the framework of a comprehensive or well-defined urban policy.
Rather, the urban sector has been most affected by numerous broad initiatives
and measures designed primarily for the rural sector but applied countrywide..
This low priority of urban concerns in national policy has markedly cons-
trained the Government's ability to respond to its urban problems and has
aggravated many of the difficulties urban areas faced during the recent eco-
nomic crisis. Yet the fact remains that Tanzania is an overwhelmingly rural
country and that any investments in the urban sector must be closely examined
in terms of overall priority and impact on the urban and rural sectors. These
questions have been examined in Bank Group economic work and in regard
to this project. The decision to proceed with this investment reflects both
the urgent need for shelter in Tanzania and the fact that this project has
provided a context for general policy dialogue on important urban issues and
the development of practical approaches to meet urban problems.
The National Sites and Services Program and the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Urban Development (Ardhi)
22.       Even with the low priority attached to urban development, the
Government has attempted to establish a low-cost shelter program to address



- 10 -
the shortage of housing. In the early 1970's, the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Urban Development (known by its Swahili name "Ardhi") initiated
the National Sites and Services Program (NSSP). This program emphasized
the improvement of existing squatter settlements and development of sur-
veyed plot schemes and was designed to meet shelter needs of 13 regional
centers over a 10-year period. This was an important departure from the
previous costly and socially disruptive governmental policies of slum housing
demolition and squatter resettlement. It allowed the development of much lower
cost solutions (in both upgrading and surveyed plot areas) and in the case of
squatter areas resulted in the preservation of viable communities which
help integrate the rural immigrant into urban life. The first IDA-financed
project (Credit 495-TA) was developed within the framework of the NSSP and
has provided approximately 50% of its financing over the past 2-1/2 years.
23.       Ardhi is the key Ministry with respect to Tanzania's urban
development efforts. It has responsibility for proposing and coordinating
land planning policies and provides the support services which are most
efficiently carried out on a national level (i.e, mapping, adjudicating
disputes over land laws, etc.). In addition, overall responsibility for
the NSSP has been given to Ardhi. Subsequent to the Government decentrali-
zation in 1973, regional administrations (with Ardhi trained staff) have
been responsible for the actual local planning and controlling of urban
land development. Close central ministry-regional cooperation is obviously
essential in implementing the Government's urban programs.
Tanzania Housing Bank
24.       To meet the credit requirements of low-income households for
construction loans, the Tanzania Housing Bank (THB) was established in
1973, replacing the Permanent Housing Finance Company of Tanzania, a
commercial institution jointly owned by the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (U.K.). The main purpose of THB is to mobilize
domestic savings and foreign funds for financing low-income housing for
individuals and cooperative groups. THB provides technical and financial
assistance for sites and services projects, ujamaa villages and other
owner-occupied housing schemes. Moreover, it promotes the use of local
building materials, encourages the construction of housing types best
suited to local conditions, and fosters the minimizing of building costs.
25.       THB is a corporate body owned by the Government.   It is governed
by a Board of Directors, consisting of 8 to 12 members appointed by the
Minister of Finance with the Chairman appointed by the President. One of
the Directors is the Principal Secretary of Ardhi thus ensuring coordination
of policy and programs between Ardhi and THB. THB is currently receiving
technical assistance from a number of bilateral donors and has inherited
well-trained and qualified administrative and operational staff from its
predecessor. Additional staff are being trained, placing THB in a sound
position to undertake its responsibilities with respect to credit support.



- 11 -
Small Industries Development Organization CSIDO)
26.       The project's component focusing on small industry will be
implemented by SIDO. A parastatal under the Ministry of Industry, SIDO
was established in January 1974 to expand on the role of its predecessor,
the National Small Industries Corporation. According to TANU's directive
on small-scale industries (SSI), SIDO should not run or own any industries.
Rather, its role should be to render services to new and existing small-
sc&le industries. Consequently, SIDO's major functions include: (i) develop-
ing a national strategy for SSIs; (ii) identifying small industry potential
in the various regions; (iii) providing technical assistance and training
to SSIs (primarily through its extension services); and (iv) providing
a broad range of programs and services to support SSI development. To
date, SIDO has developed industrial guides, constructed one industrial
estate, completed a number of model projects, developed an equipment hire-
purchase scheme and set up a raw material supply program.
27.       SIDO is headed by a Director General, who reports to a Board of
Directors and is assisted by Departmental Directors of Research and Planning,
Training and Marketing. There is also an Administrative and Account Section
in Headquarters. A small extension service has been established in each
region, usually staffed by a Promotion Officer, an Economist and an Engineer.
Complementing the regional staff, there are Zonal Economists covering three
to four regions. SIDO has been in operation for too short a period to permit
a definitive judgment of its performance and effectiveness. Its impact on
small-scale industry development has been spotty -- some regions have impres-
sive expanding programs while there is little activity elsewhere. Inadequate
attention has been given to the problems of organization, management and
marketing products, and the coordination with other agencies and regional
authorities has been weak. However, project preparation skills are generally
satisfactory. Under the proposed project, efforts will be made to strengthen
SIDO's capability in those areas where weaknesses exist and emphasis will be
placed on managerial assistance and the process of project identification.
Bank Group Involvement in the Urban Sector
28.       The first National Sites and Services Project    consisted
of about 10,000 newly serviced plots and improvements to existing squatter
neighborhoods affecting about 8,800 dwellings; related infrastructure and
community facilities; construction loans for the purchase of building materials;
expansion of training facilities at the Ardhi Institute (the Ministry's training
facility); and consultant services for design, detailed engineering, overall
project supervision, preparation of a follow-up project, and project monitoring
and evaluation.    Performance in this project has been adequate overall and in



- 12 -
many respects very satisfactory. A workable approach to low-cost
shelter has been developed. The execution of physical infrastructure
for both sites and services and squatter upgrading areas has been carried
out on schedule. In addition, the design and implementation capacity of
Ardhi has been significantly strengthened. Yet, because some implement-
ation difficulties were experienced in the first project a continuous
effort has been made in the preparation of the proposed project to ensure
strengthening of specific aspects where weaknesses were found: the financial
management capacity of Arhdi will be strengthened; a more systematic ap-
proach to coordination between Ardhi, regional administrations and local
project management will be introduced; material depots will be established
by the Tanzania Housing Bank to resolve the problem of low-income households'
access to building materials; and THB's procedures are being simplified to
ensure the provision of credit to low-income households. Perhaps more
important, a number of broader policy issues in the urban sector were identi-
fied and have played a major role in formulating the proposed project.   These
include: (i) the development of employment opportunities; (ii) the level
of housing and service standards; and (iii) cost recovery.
29.       Employment Opportunities:  Given Tanzania's massive housing
shortage (para 20) it was perhaps inevitable that a program like the
NSSP would tend to focus on the provision of shelter and under-emphasize
related urban requirements. Specifically, in implementing the first pro-
ject there was no provision for generating employment opportunities. In
view of the growing significance of this problem, the proposed project
includes an experimental program of assistance to the small-scale industry
sector in two project towns. This will be the Bank's first direct venture
into small-scale industry in Tanzania and will attempt to generate suitable
employment opportunities in that sector.
30.       Standards:  This issue has been of continuing concern to both
the Government and IDA. Given its primary emphasis on rural develop-
ment and Tanzania's overall economic constraints, the Government has
recognized that constant efforts must be made to reduce the costs of
providing adequate urban housing. This has had a number of effects on the
design of the proposed project.   First of all, the standards of community
facilities have been reduced from those in the first project to bring
project standards in line with the minimum national standards.   Even
Biore important, an extremely low cost approach to the provision of sites
is being attempted in the project's pilot surveyed plot program (para 39
below) and the upgrading component is being expanded.   In fact, no fully
serviced plots are included in the second project. This will permit exten-
sion of the NSSP to a larger number of households and more families in the
lowest income groups will be reached.
31.       Cost Recovery:  In the first project, a specific formula was developed
to recover the investment costs of the project. Charges calculated according to
this formula were intended to recover the full cost of on-site infrastructure



- 13 -
over 25 years at 9%. However, the Government subsequently passed the
Land Rent and Service Charge Act. This legislation established nation-
wide charges for urban services which were somewhat lower than those to
be applied to project areas under the IDA formula. In addition, under the
Act it was not clear whether any charge would be levied on squatter areas
while the IDA formula clearly applied in squatter areas being upgraded
under the first project. The resulting higher charges (and sometimes the
presence of a charge) in areas under the IDA project as compared to
similarly serviced areas under the Act created predictable payment
problems. As a short-run solution to this difficulty, the Government
requested (and IDA accepted) an amendment to the first project's Credit
Agreement which placed all project areas under the purvue of the Land
Rent and Service Charge Act and confirmed that the Act would apply to all
squatter areas.
32.       While this amendment resolved the inconsistency problem discussed
above, the Government has also faced significant problems in implementing
the Land Rent and Service Charge Act itself. First, the valuations
required by the Act (upon which charges are based) have been slow, hampered
by a lack of resources and manpower. Secondly, there is no consistent
attempt to relate the valuation to the level of services provided.
Finally, the collection record of charges is poor -- only slightly more
than half the estimated potential revenues are being collected. In
recognition of these problems, the Government recently engaged a team of
consultants to carry out an in-depth study of the Act. This study will
analyze the existing situation regarding the assessment and collection
of the Land Rent and Service Charge and propose specific measures that
would increase its effectiveness, yield and equity. After the completion
of this study it is expected that the Government will review its recommenda-
tions and implement a number of reforms to improve the operation of the
Land Rent and Service Charge Act. These reforms would provide the context
for cost recovery under the second project. The underlying long-term goal
of these reforms will be to increase the revenues from the Land Rent and
Service Charge Act to a level sufficient to cover investment and operating
expenditures for urban infrastructure. The terms of reference for this
study were reviewed by IDA during the appraisal, and at negotiations
assurances were obtained that recommendations of the Land Rent and Service
Charge Study will be discussed with the Association and a timetable for
implementing its recommendations agreed by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.03(a)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In the interim, the Government
has agreed to specific charges for all urban areas which are viewed as
adequate by IDA staff (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       An Appraisal Report entitled "Tanzania - The Second National Sites
and Services Project", dated June 9, 1977 is being circulated separately.
34.       The preparation of the proposed project was financed under the
first National Sites and Services Project (Credit 495-TA). Ardhi was res-
ponsible for project preparation, assisted by the supervision missions of



- 14 -
the first project and IDA preparation missions in March and July 1976.   A mission
from the Urban Projects Department appraised the project in the field in
September 1976. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington
in May 1977. The Tanzanian delegation was headed by Mr. Minja, Principal
Secretary, Ardhi.
Objectives
35.       The primary focus of IDA assistance in the urban sector in Tan-
zania is to assist Government efforts at identifying and resolving growing
urban problems in a predominantly rural society. The most important ob-
jectives underlying IDA assistance to the urban sector are: (i) the demons-
tration of a replicable approach for improving existing slums and controlling
rapid new growth; (ii) the strengthening of the institutional and financial
capability of the Government to implement such an approach; and (iii) the
development of ways to address growing urban unemployment and underemployment.
36.       The project will provide basic infrastructure and community faci-
lities for residents of squatter areas, a program of surveyed plots for
low-income housing, house improvement and construction loans, technical
assistance in numerous areas and the initiation of a pilot program of
assistance to small-scale industry. Towns involved in the second project
include Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Tabora, Iringa and Morogoro. The principal
criteria in selecting these towns were the magnitude of squatter settlements
and the demand for plots. These towns had an estimated combined population
of 860,000 in 1976, or 60% of the total urban population of Tanzania. The
total number of squatter houses in these towns is estimated at 51,500,
appro.:imately 73% of the national total.
Project Details
37.       Squatter Upgrading.   A simple and inexpensive approach to infra-
structure upgrading, developed and tested under the first project, will be
applied with appropriate modification in the proposed project to approximately
16,000 houses in eleven existing squatter neighborhoods. Areas included are
Mtoni/Tandika, Mbagala, and Hanna Nassif in Dar es Salaam; Isebya and Kilo-
leni in Tabora; Gofu Juu and Mwakizaro in Tanga; Msamvu and Kichangani in
Morogoro; and Kihesa in Iringa. Functional standards for the infrastructure
to be developed under the project (including roads, water supply, sewage
disposal, drainage, street lighting and electricity for community facilities)
are as low as possible initially so that the per-family costs can be afforded
by households at the lower end of the income scale. However, provision
will be made in planning for future upgrading of infrastructure standards
as household incomes increase.
38.       Community Facilities.   In each of the communities to be upgraded,
a careful evaluation of the needs for community facilities over and above
those existing was made to determine the range and number of facilities
required. As a result of this analysis, a total of twelve primary schools,
two new mother and child health clinics and one medical outpost will be
constructed, and three existing mother and child health clinics will be



- 15 -
upgraded in project areas. The health facilities will be designed with an
emphasis on preventative care and will be built according to guidelines to
be prepared by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.09 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
39.       Surveyed Plots.  Under its program for providing new plots for low-
income housing, Ardhi will prepare about 19,000 surveyed sites, sufficient
to satisfy 75% of the estimated demand in the five towns included in the pro-
ject. IDA would finance and provide technical assistance for site selection,
layout design, site clearance, surveying of plots, installation of skeletal
water supply through standpipes, allocation of plots and house construction
by allottees. Except for water supply, the provision and upgrading of basic
infrastructure would be implemented by residents in stages after settlement
with assistance from regional authorities and Ardhi. Therefore, unlike the
typical sites and services project, only the planning for on-site services
outside of water would be financed by IDA. This is the first time the Bank
Group will be involved with this type of phased approach for the provision
and upgrading of urban infrastructure. It will enable the project to reach
a greater proportion of the urban poor because of the far lower initial
capital requirements. If successful, it could emerge as a major vehicle
in the Government's efforts to deal with the rapid increase in squatter
housing and could serve as an important model for other countries to follow.
It should be emphasized that this affords one of the few practical policy
alternatives to squatting.
40.       House Improvement and Construction Loans.   The Tanzania Housing
Bank (THB) will expand its lending program for house improvement (in up-
grading areas) and low-cost housing construction (in surveyed plot areas)
under the second project. The program is designed to provide finance, mate-
rials, and technical advice for housing construction in project areas.
Financed largely by THB funds (from public deposits and resources from a
housing fund financed by a levy on large employers), this program incorpo-
rates modifications to address two problems faced in the first project:
(i) the availability of key building materials to project beneficiaries;
and (ii) the access to credit for squatter inhabitants. In order to improve
the availability of building materials to project beneficiaries, THB will
establish on-site offices and materials depots. Critical building materials,
including cement, corrugated iron roofing sheets and joinery, will be
stocked in these depots. Furthermore, because of previous problems in
ensuring adequate supplies of cement, the Government confirmed during nego-
tiations its willingness to import needed cement (Section 3.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). These cement purchases will be the major
part of this component financed by the Association and are necessary short-
term measures pending the completion of two cement plants under consideration
(planned around 1980).
41.       With respect to the squatter lending program, it was clearly estab-
lished under the first project that the risks involved in lending to squatters
and the variety of normal THB lending procedures and requirements make it dif-
ficult for THB to rapidly expand its operations in squatter areas without a



- 16 -
number of modifications. With regard to THB's risks, it was agreed that to
ensure adequate lending for this component while maintaining THB's integrity
as a self-sustaining financial institution, the Government would take what-
ever steps are necessary to ensure the continued viability of the lending
program in squatter areas if the default rate on these loans exceeds 25%
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). At default
rates below this figure THB can absorb the losses without jeopardizing its
financial viability. A number of the legal and procedural problems
encountered under the first project have also been specifically dealt with
in connection with the proposed project. One difficulty which limited THB's
lending for home construction in squatter areas was the fact that the legal
rights of the squatters to the land they occupied were not guaranteed. To
address this problem, a new legal title form has been designed and agreed
to which ensures adequate legal occupancy rights to squatters (Section 3.05
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, to facilitate
lending to project participants in the upgrading areas, THB will use its
rural lending procedures which are much simpler than those used in its
regular urban program (Schedule 1 of the draft THB Project Agreement).
These changes should greatly increase the demand for loans from the inhabit-
ants of these areas.
42.       Small-Scale Industry.   The Small Industries Development Organization
(SIDO) will administer an experimental program to the informal sector in Tabora
and Tanga comprised of four major elements: technical assistance to support
SIDOts management capacity, an equipment hire-purchase scheme, infrastructure
for industrial clusters and loans for worksheds. The basic objectives of this
component are to increase the economic potential of project areas and diver-
sify their economic base. To accomplish this, the project will focus on
building upon existing technical and marketing skills. A preliminary list
of new product lines to be supported by the project has been established
(including metal workshops, hardware manufacturing, clothing, processing agri-
cultural by-products, and building materials production). Their selection
was based on an analysis of local raw materials, available technical skills
and local demand for product lines. Feasibility studies are being prepared
for potential product lines, and ten of these will be submitted to the Asso-
ciation by September 30, 1977 (Section 2.05 of the draft SIDO Project Agree-
ment).
43.       Technical Assistance.  Project-related technical assistance will
include support for detailed engineering and construction supervision,
traiTing of Tanzanian personnel, management back-up for the implementing
agencies (Ardhi, THB and SIDO), preparation of a follow-up project, and moni-
toring and evaluation. In a broader sectoral context, the project will finance
a study of the present Land Rent and Service Charge (para 32). This study
will directly assist the Government's efforts toward rationalizing its policies
for the taxation of urban land, shelter and services and increasing its reve-
nues from the Land Rent and Service Charge. To the extent possible, the use
of local consultants from within East Africa will be encouraged for all
technical assistance and at least 30% of the technical assistance needs are
expected to be met through local consultants. All consultants financed under
the project would be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



17 -
Project Cost and Financlng
44.       Project costs including taxes (which total approximately $0.6
million) are estimated at US$29.3 million, of which about 37% are foreign
exchange costs. These costs include physical contingencies of 15% on
construction and price contingencies amounting to 25% of the base costs of
IDA financed components based on the appraisal mission's estimate of
future price movements in Tanzania. The proposed IDA credit would
finance about 42% of net project cost: 100% of the foreign exchange costs
and 5% of local costs. Financing of local cost is considered justified
(paragraph 13 above). The remaining net costs would be financed by the
Government and THB: $4.1 million from the development budget and $12.6
million from THB's available internal funds.
45.       The Government of Tanzania will pass on the proceeds of the
proposed IDA credit to Ardhi, THB and SIDO for their respective project
components. Funds made available to Ardhi for investments under its
supervision will be through normal budgetary procedures.   IDA funds
channeled through THB ($1.1 million) for cement purchases and shed
construction will be onlent at 3% interest over 20 years with a
5-year grace period. For materials loans, THB will recover these funds
from beneficiaries at 6% interest over a maximum of 20 years with'a one-
year grace period. For sheds, THB terms will be 8% over 15 years
with up to a two-year grace period. These terms are consistent with the
present interest rate structure in Tanzania for the various categories
of loans involved. THB's spread will be used to cover its administrative
expenses and allow expansion of its capital base. Project-related funds
for THB's staff development and training will be made available to THB
as a Government contribution.
46.       Project funds for SIDO's hire-purchase program will be onlent
to SIDO at 3% interest over ten years with a three-year grace period.
SIDO will recover the funds from project beneficiaries at 8% interest
over 8 years with up to two years of grace. These are above SIDO's
traditional rates but will bring SIDO's interest rates for the project
in line with the interest rate structure of the National Bank of Commerce,
the main source of working capital credit to small-scale industry. Funds
for SIDO's management training and assistance will be provided through
regular budgetary channels.
Organization and Management
47.       Responsibility for project execution will be shared between Ardhi
(the principal implementing agency) and the decentralized regional adminis-
tration in each town project. The specialized components involving housing
loans and small-scale industry will be handled by THB and SIDO, respectively.
48.     Ardhi'e Sites and Services Unit will have operational responsibility
for the overall planning and implementation of the project as in the first



project. In order to improve its implementation capacity, this Unit will be
reorganized and strengthened (para 28 above). Details of this reorganization
were agreed to during negotiations (Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Physical planning, detailed engineering and supervision
of construction contracts in the project areas will be the responsibility of
the Unit's Physical Planning and Engineering Sections with assistance from
consultants. The consultants will be given responsibility for involving
some of the Engineering Section's staff in their work. In the first project,
this technique resulted in the development of Ardhi's technical capacity to
the point where it can complete engineering for community facilities and do
some contractor supervision. In the proposed project, it is hoped that the
Section will be able to markedly increase its capacity in regard to contractor
supervision. The Finance Section of the Unit will be responsible for financial
management. Community Development and Land Officers will be responsible for
the non-physical aspects of the project, including publicity, allocation,
registration of squatter houses and preparation of titles, on-site assistance
to residents in project areas, and the formation of housing cooperatives.
49.       Teams of local officials under the direction of Project Coordinators
will be responsible for local project implementation. The Coordinator's
responsibilities will be to plan local project implementation, to coordinate
the activities of the various local officials involved in the project, and to
monitor progress and submit periodic reports to Ardhi. One Site Officer will
be appointed in each project town to assist the Coordinator and to ensure
continuous administrative presence in project communities. District Land
Development Officers of the local district administrations will register
existing squatter housing and will be responsible for soliciting and processing
applications for the surveyed plots.   It was agreed at negotiations that,
as in the first project, preference in the allocation of plots will be given
to households which meet certain criteria, including length of time living
in area, time on housing lists, number of dependents, and household
income (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Because of the Government's policy of encouraging mixed-income communities
and the scarcity of other housing opportunities, there will be no income
eligibility limit.
50.       As in the first project, THB's lending program for house improve-
ment and construction will be run by a section in THB's Operations Department.
This section will also run the day-to-day administration of the program in
Dar es Salaam, but in Tabora, Tanga, Morogoro and Iringa, THB's regional
offices will control day-to-day management. In order to reach the target
population more effectively, part-time site offices will be established in
project areas for distributing and receiving loan applications. The expansion
of THB's lending operation in squatter areas and establishment of the on-
site material depots will necessitate increases in THB staff at headquarters
and in the regions. During negotiations, THB agreed to hire the additional
staff required by September 30, 1977 (Section 2.03 of the draft THB Project
Agreement).



- 19 -
51.       In the small-scale industry component the emphasis will be
primarily at the regional level in order to increase the effectiveness
of SIDO's extension services and focus them on the needs of the urban
informal sector. To assist in project implementation SIDO will hire a
Project Coordinator and a Project Economist for each project town by
September 30, 1977 (Section 2.03(a) of the draft SIDO Agreement). The Project
Coordinator and regional authorities will select participants in the hire-
purchase program according to agreed upon procedures (Section 2.04 of the
draft SIDO Project Agreement). The Coordinator will also develop, organize
and supervise management training activities as well as provide on-the-
job management advice. The Economist will be responsible for the financial
aspects of the hire-purchase program, including the processing of applica-
tions, collection of payments and supervision. He will assist the participants
(cooperatives, partnerships and individuals) in obtaining loans for working
capital from the National Bank of Commerce. Infrastructure and workshop
designs for the industrial clusters will be provided by Ardhi and participants
will borrow from THB to develop workshops and sheds. SIDO's staff will be
assisted by consultants for developing management programs and Technical
Advisors will be appointed in Tanga and Tabora for assisting project
execution. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that appointment of
this additional staff and any other consultants required for project imple-
mentation will be completed by December 31, 1977 (Section 2.03(b) Of the
draft SIDO Project Agreement).
Project Accounts, Auditing and Completion Report
52.       Separate project accounts would be maintained for the upgrading
and infrastructure works by Ardhi. Procedures established in the first
project have been revised to overcome Ardhi's inability to complete adequate
audits. The Finance Section of the Sites and Services Unit will be
responsible for maintaining accurate records of Ardhi's expenditures and
preparing annual statements. In the THB and SIDO components, separate
accounts will also be maintained for all project-related expenditures.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that independent auditors accept-
able to the Association would conduct an annual audit of these project accounts
and that these audited records would be submitted to IDA no later than six
months following the close of the fiscal year by Ardhi, THB and SIDO (Section
4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 of the draft THB
Project Agreement and Section 3.02 of the draft SIDO Project Agreement).
53.       In addition to the normal reporting requirements, it was agreed
at negotiations that three months after the project's closing date, a re-
port summarizing the project's implementation and accomplishments would be
submitted to the Association (Section 3.14 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Infrastructure works totalling about US$7.6 million will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines for Procurement. Local contractors will be accorded a preferential



-20-
margin of 7.5% over foreign contractors in the evaluation of bids.
Contracts for construction of community facilities totalling TSh9.3
million (US$1.1 million) and material purchases will be awarded in accord
ance with standard Government procedures in view of their small size and
scattered locations. Because of the various items involved and small
total size, equipment/vehicle purchases totalling TSh3.4 million (US$0.4
million) will also be procured through standard Government procedures.
SIDO will follow its usual procedures for procuring hire-purchase equipment.
55.       Disbursement of funds from the credit would be made on the fol-
lowing basis: (a) civil works: 70% of expenditures against payment certi-
ficates endorsed by the consultants and Ardhi; (b) furniture, equipment,
materials and vehicles: 100% of foreign expenditures if directly imported
or 75% of expenditures if purchased locally; and (c) consultant services:
100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 75% of local expenditures.
56.       In view of the urgency and importance of the Land Rent and Service
Charge Study, approval of retroactive financing is recommended for consultant
fees paid prior to credit signing. Retroactive financing is also recommended
to cover consultant services for detailed design and engineering from May 1,
1977. A total sum of up to US$200,000 would be required to cover expend-
itures incurred for these two items before the anticipated date of signing.
Project Benefits
57.       The project is expected to generate a wide range of direct
benefits to more than 315,000 low-income urban dwellers -- about 26% of
Tanzania's total urban population. The major physical components of the
project (squatter upgrading and surveyed plots) have been specifically
formulated to reach more low-income families than was achieved under the
first project. Provision of essential infrastructure, community facilities,
regularization of tenure and supply of credit for house improvement aim
at improving conditions for some 162,000 inhabitants of squatter settlements
at a cost of $385 per plot. The project also meets the demand for new
shelters by providing 19,000 new surveyed plots at an estimated expenditure
of $25 per plot. With households averaging nine persons, the per capita
costs are $43 and $3, respectively, for the upgrading and surveyed plots
components. The potential benefits of the surveyed plot program are
especially noteworthy. This is the first Bank project in which this low
cost approach proposed will be utilized. If successful it could prove to
be an important approach in addressing rapidly growing squatter problems.
The economic rate of return is estimated to be 20% for the squatter
upgrading component (47% of project costs), and 35% for surveyed plots
(37% of project costs); these rates of return do not take account of the
costs and non-quantified benefits of the community facilities. The average
economic rate of return on the upgrading and surveyed plots components is 23%.
58.       The program of assistance to small-scale industry is expected
to result in the creation of approximately 870 new jobs including 350
skilled and semi-skilled workers over a period of three years at a low



-21-
unit investment cost of US$650 (US$1,000 if working capital needs and
technical assistance are included). The potential annual output is
valued at US$2.7 million.
59.       Significant indirect and institutional benefits are also anti-
cipated from the proposed project. Firstly, the successful development
of replicable low cost approaches to Tanzania's urban problems will have
far greater long range significance than the direct benefits of the pro-
ject. Secondly, the potential benefits of identifying a feasible low
cost approach to Tanzania's unemployment problem are also important.
Thirdly, important institutional improvements in the major Government
agencies in the urban sector (Ardhi, SIDO and THB) may be achieved through
project experience. Finally, substantial long-range benefits will be
derived if the Government is able to address effectively an important
aspect of its urban financing problem through the study of the Land Rent
and Service Charge Act and subsequent reform of this legislation.
Risks
60.       Risks involved are primarily institutional and financial.   The
project's scattered locations combined with a general shortage of qualified
personnel contribute to the institutional risks. Specific provisions for
strengthening the management capability of the institutions implementing
the project and for improving coordination between them are made in the
project to limit this kind of risk. Financial risk is associated with
the reform of the Land Rent and Service Charge. While the Government
expressed its willingness to undertake a major reform of this aspect of
its revenue system, its complete implementation may prove difficult in the
context of difficult political pressures and scarcity of qualified per-
sonnel. Flexibility, careful timing and continuing monitoring will be
required. However, even partial implementation of the reform will represent
a significant improvement over the existing situation. Financial risk is
also involved in the THB's program in the squatter area, given its novelty
and lending criteria and procedures less stringent than those normally
employed by THB. To address this problem assurances were obtained from
the Government that the progress of the program would be closely monitored
and, if required, the necessary steps to protect THB's financial integrity
would be taken by Treasury (paragraph 41). The project is recommended in
spite of these risks because of the important role it could play in develop-
ing appropriate urban policies and in view of the fact that appropriate
steps to deal with these risks were taken during project preparation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       Drafts of the Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the Project Agreement between
the Tanzania Housing Bank and the Association, the Project Agreement
between the Small Industries Development Organization and the Association,



-22-
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of
the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the
proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for
urban development projects.
62.       Special features of the various legal agreements are listed
in Annex III, Section 3 of this report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
J. Burke Knapp
Senior Vice President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 14, 1977



o  5~~~~~~~~~~~~dod                                M.
ea  p. a - a. a a       am W.asm                   s  c me       - Ca    a     c
m  u                           m   oa a de
a a i 
a  as                        -~~~~~~~~ a a4                4
*                                                                                  a1
mom 
S   S.   .   .....               C..   *CCC ~~C7.:..                   .  .
~~~s  as-  m  -~~~~~~~~~~~'  flon                -  -                          5 o  0
ma  a                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.0a Z- V
ma                                                            S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
ma  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W W  M  .Oa s           rfo  
ems  a cia  a  a  cc  am  a '-  '  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  00 a m  m -aZz f  M C ~ Zt Z a.e Z a, 
lp-     -   mm a   a                               * d  .2M Ma 0  A9 _  -0 a  a  0 a   -  a  a  -  a  M
* a  a   s                                                             ul~~ i  w  0wo 7a  ~ C!-   .&MSC 0 ad
me  a  4                  0                                    1         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n1  W.  I  I L4
a-  ma                                                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n d  Wo   jP_o
CC  Ci.  .  ..  **,4**  ..  ..  C..     C                       .  C  C~~~~~~~~to  am W  I
~~a  mm  -  ..~~~~~~~~~~~  mm3a  am  cc r-  o  0 ~   ma"  W  O a  '-a   ad  -  - L- 7  sZ  a,
Ps-  J                            a               cmc~am                    I  M z  
S  ~~~~~~~~~~~~F      .  '-   W Z1--        a 1  a-0I24 
I  S                    UIA~~~~~~~~~~0 0  ;,I :Oa I1  p                       aa4. 
J  . Z                  LuLs.II I  -     Xi- -.0      Ufa      % Zi    AL_K , M  CD Ma
- i  a  so  ~~9L  a  ca a c - .  c  m c  c -. cc . a  WW-  0m o  c   . 0   a c   mcW.
ml  -  sa  0   c   ce-ac  ma  a mac  c-  cc  0cO   Cam  am  a as-  -  mama7
me  as-   - -  mmcm     am ~~~~IL  a .             '  a ma      - m  
as 9                                                      W CI4               



Page 2 of 4 pags.
Unlean otherisei    voted, data faor 1960 refor to amy y.ar between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Nmt Recent rAtlmata betwee
1973 end 1675.
fl    Malaysia h.. bean *ela.t.d a. an obj..tive country bears..     it. population is enepareble insti. and it. sconanic derelopasent i.         eea    *tape
.hoad of Tananmia.
IAS                190     L    1957, Africa. population only;      /b  Ratio of population, undr 15 and 65 and over to total labor torce;               1963;
(d  1962;     la  Imeluding midwies end oursea with cidwifery qualificationa, regietere.1, not all practicing in the
counatry;    If  1961-63;     /A   1958, Zaveibar only.
1970     /a  1967;    /b   Xncluding acaitstat medical officers;       /c   As percntage of urban hosa.holdd..
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      La   1970-75;    lb   1967-73;     /c  1972;     /4  Inluding asaiatat medical officer.;          Li   1969-71 average;
/fA. percentage of population.
KENYA             1970     L.  Ratio of populatioe    nde- 15 and 65 and over to labor torn. age 15-59 yeara;         lb  Labor fore age 15-59 year.;        /c   Urban;
Id  Registered, not all practicing in the country, including midwives           I.   Total secondary inc1.d.o teacher tr.inin-g
at the third leve.
KOREA REP   OF.    1970    /a  Goverwet eccimate is 38.0;         lb  A. percentage of aploynet:         I c  Registered, not all practicing in the coun.try;
/d Water piped inside.
KALAYSIA           1970    /a  Woear MalaYaia;     /b  ingi.ter.d applicants for work;       /c  Perennel in govoamet        -arict. only;     /d   1964-66;
/ePiped water inside only.
RIO, May 12, 1977
DErcFICUON Of SOCIAL INEDICATORS
Land Are  (thou bm2)                                                                     P.pulation per c-roti  Parson - Population divided by ntmbr of practicing
Total -Total aortacc area    opmrleing land area ad Winad wat.re.                          male and final  graduate   oe,     trained" or "cr-tfttd" no-., and
Aert. - Moat rcent ..timat. of agricultural area    aed twep-rrily or Peon-               atmiliary personnel with training or auperle-ce
nenely for cr0p0, p.at.r.a, calker & hitchen gardena or to lie fallen.                 Poplation par h..pital bed - Population divid.d by -,nl,er of hoapita1 bed.
-vilobl. in public and pritoet   genearl and ep-rfoIi..d hoepitel and
GRP ne   -Pitta (US$) - GNP par capita ..titoat.  atur.rl.ot narit prices,                 rehabilitatlion cantone; occlude. nuring hmenso ed .at.blih.-ton     fur
cacltdby e-   cov-raton nethod a. World Rook Atine (1973-75 basis) ;                uatodia1 and pr-eveni- care.
1960; 1970 .ed 1975 data.                                                              Par capita ..ncly of caoi.M of reg.irnest.) - Ceeputed fr- en-ery
oqui-aIent of net food supplies availble in co,ntry per caPita par day;
PoPulation and vital tatiatit.                                                             a-aloble euppltee cnprian dmoe.tic productin. ioporta less export.. and
PopUlation feid-vear .Illion)    oa of July first:  if nut avilable, overage               change  in otoch; net aoppliee e-clde anioal feed, seed., quatities u-d
of tw  end- yaar 1e ota       60~A, 1970 and 1975 data,                                  in food prcnaa   g tn  ad loeaoe it dlatrlibtioo; raqoirntae-roea .tiawtetd
by rAo boe..d or phyalologica1 n..oda for e..nI aciit      d health .onid-
Popol.tion d-naty - por aono- An - Mid-yea     pop.iation par aqure kilooter               acing pvrne        tatnperatur, body aeLghta, ago and see ditr,ib-ci-n of
P'OwatOn eat        otr                                                                               "'aeAno  act  ad - Cpuo00avefrPrcpt  op  fprtin faom car da) - Protein conten.t of par capita
agricultural land only.                                                                  net ouPply of fond per day; net eupply of food is defined a- abo; require-
enta -for all coutries established by iSDA ttononic Researcb Seavicee
Vitl ectri'tin                                                                             provide for a niniocaloac        of 60 gras of tota    protein par day. and
Crude birth reta par thousad. av-rac- Anetu1 liv. birtha par to-aond of                    20 gr-n   of animal and pulse protein, of which iS gr- ah-Id be      nia
nld-year popolation; te-yea    arltheastic ovreoaodig in 1960 and 1970,                  protein; theep trandorde are lowr than those of 75 gr       of total protein
Cand five-year overage ending in 1975 for neat recent eatica to.                          and 23 gras of lanial Protein          --aavrge for the world. Proposed by FAO
Cr.da death rtat Par thO,iaaed. -vraga - Annu-l daathu par thoocand of nid-Year            in the Third World Fond Soevy.
population; ten-year arithnsetic avarage  ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-            Per capita protein .opl iron anial and pulew      - protetn euPply of fond
Iyear averag   edig in 19.75 for one trecent eati- te.                                    derived ftro animls       pubes in gram   per day.
tft otlity reta i/thu I- A-n..l death. of infantaundor one year of ape             Deah rate (/thou) aRe. I     - nul d-ahs per thousand in age group 1-I
piar thonoad live births.                                                                 yea.r, to children in thie age group; auggoeted we en indtcator of
Lie   orncenyat b 'i.rth  Yea)l- Aerege punbar of yearn of life rnaining at          ealnutrition.
birth; onually fi   -ya   overa  eaanding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Edu..ation
Cro.e reproduction rate-Average cabe r of live dough tore       oaws  will bear           Idua      enrollmen ra:thio - pcinnry o hnboniE.-1to m t of all age. as per-
in he  porn  repoducive period it ahe eperiooee pre...nt ag- specific               _etg     f  rnr    nha-ge        PJ p oltione, tpldea child-e aged 6-il11 e
fetlity rtraw  owualy five-year average   cending in 1960, 197  an  17                ht gd'jured fo    different l.ngtha  fpiayeuain;frcwtiwwt
for deelopin a    ot  rie                                                                 univerwI education, enrolliet may eacod l00% atonce a           pupil. am below
Poultone -w t rt  (LI - t.ota.l - Capond anua   growth rates of nid-year             or aboe the offtcia1 achool ago.
population for 195-Al, l9f7f sad 1970-75.                                              Adlote nrlmetrat          - aecndsry echool - Coopurd1 as abov; secondary
Population atrth rate (%) - urban -Caputd like growth rate of total                        educaio require.atles.t four por        of approvd primary inatratine;
population; difforat dofinisioma of urban ane -y affect comparability of                 providno gene.ral, vctoaor teather training ima,truc tion       for pupila
dat  aon      "turiea.                                                                   of 12 to 17 y.atra of age; t-rnepondwnc,  -orawa        generally -elidd.
Uranonoltto     (% of total) - Ratio of urban tn rtota  pupolation; different          Yearah ojf wobolinproided (tint and second 1-vel) - Tatel ys.n at
dafinitiona of urban areaw may aff.ot conperabilfty of data aloog   -otria...             onhoig     at seodrylvl,vttiona            ites-atin mey he parta11y or
napletely wadded.
-g n  tor fd   tet    - Children (0-14 years), working-ag. (15-64 years),             Voainlarolen           to   eodr)-Vcainlieiuim                      nld
an  eie  65 years..ad over) a. pwrcettage  of itd-yeer population,                 technical, feduatria  or ohrporn          hc    pru     eaedel         ra
Ag eednyrtio  - Rnallouf populatio  under 1) and 11 and over 10 those                                             ---rnot  f  eonay  pt grina
of ages 15 through h64.                                                                 Adult literacy rate CL) - Li terateadulta (able to read and write) an Per-
toonat deendeny raio -Ratio of Ppoplation ondrr 15 and 65 end over to               -etage of total adult population eged 1) yer      -dovr
the labor force tn age troop of 15-hi4 yoaro.
FatlyelnIPgaceoa(,u                    e thou) - Cuoulativ- nnber of accoptora .sn
ofbirth-cont'rol d-io   under woapicen of national fi7Planning progra                Persnsu per roo    (urban) - Average nnbr of pereos P.r roa    in occupied
since inoeption.                                                                         convetional deoltgpe in urban ar..e; dwellinge nclude non-peennet
Fal-aots-         0r fto       aredww)-Prc rtogr.: of marriedwome of                        tructorso and ucoctupiod Parte.
cild-bearing age(,15-44hya.)u, ysbrth-otl dev1ics toalmrid                            Olctpied d-clli:ge wthout pined watsr f)- Occupied       omivetional dwellings
poman in war age group.                                                                  inoIcan        ua I._a w.Ithu       ad    ruti.ppdwtrfclt
apercentage of all occupied droIlinga.
OE.loyant                                                                                 Ac.... to n1entroct   to    l  ulia)-          ovninldelnswt
Total labor forte (th..send) - tionatinally activ-proe        inciodin   ee                 ltrcr        nlvng.-nrtde       sipcteto -C     -tional doelleei rban and
frc    nd nplydbu          oIuding housew1-, atudent,, etc.; definltione                -ualaa1
invrle     coutries    re pot ca.p_rblo.                                               cua aii        on-tn   -tdAoeetict       L      Coapotad as aboveforua
Lbor fotei   e  iutoe       )- Agricultural labor force (in taming, forestry,             drylftor only
buntin   n   iaig)a       aret      of total labor for-o
Onelyd ft of labor fer.a) -.fnoploy d ara .--ally dofinod as parwons hbo             Con    tio
era   ble  nd  ilin   to take   Job, out of a Job o     give  day, r-inalod out                                          All e las(erto  op  i  tYPes of re-lv-re for radio broadcat-
of a Jab, end aashtig work fora.specified minimo     pertod nor .or.eding one            tgorsIpbipathund of population; ecde                     uninsdrenei-or
wash; nay pat be tp-bal. betw.en ceotriwa do, to differet definition.                     in countries and in years whop registration of radio sate waw it effect;
of oninplyod  pedyeemaofdta, e.g-."ipoyn"'t office statiatics, .-PI.                data for recoL iyears may eOt b. compa-ble, ain-    -t cne.trica abe1nhed
arvys. rcapolapry oapeyen        iarenceI ...lening.
P"asenger ca.rs (pr thou pop) - P.asenger trel lcpri.e eater can seating
l_c7asd dtstrtiborton -Pe rcen.tage of private incas (both to cach and hind)               lesthen eih       esn;soow          blarn       enaadmltr
rciebyriheaet 51, richest 201, pooreat 20%, and Poor..t All of house-              v-hicto...     tpros         .     sh..                    n   Itr
hold..                                                                                 Eiactriciy (bo/y er     c:p)  -  nulcnato            f induatrta1,eeia
pohlc Cd prvat  sictricit  in kilonatt hours par capita, gene.rally
Dia.t.ribottion  f len,dowah   -  Percentagee of land owne   by onatirbias  10%            ba...d on prodntion d.ta. witYhout ellowan.. far lonsca in grids but allw-
an.ora  0  f land oanren                                                         mop for imprta and anporte of eoertiy.
He"   1:" ~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ewoti (kg/y                                             parec ap) - Per capita annua ton,eaption in ktlgr_
aP.t and g   trit    on                                                                    o    atedfrom daasatic production plue nat leport. of nepriet.
Ponainscphyetnie. - Population divded by nunher of p-etictog
physfi.iae  qualifiad from a medica1l shool at -niv--t, le-e.



~ON1MCDMVIfpXW~4 D&TA                                                   Page 3 of 4 pages
tAmount imIlOn. of U.S. dollars)
ActuaLl                       Projected             1967-   1973 -    1975 -   1975 -    17       95      18
NATIONALACCOUNTS1973               1974      1975       1976      1977    198        1072    1975      1977     1980      17        95     18
'At 19 73             Prices & Exchane .Rati-s      Average Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product          1866-.4~1917.6     1966.7      2065. 1  2168.3   21.          6.0      2.7       5.0      5.0    100.0    102.0    101.0
Gains from Terms of Trede ()___            -20.5    -38.4       +19.7     -5.0    -24.9                                                    -2.0    -1.0
Gross Domestic Income   ~~18766.4  189 7.1  -1928.3    20 84.8  -2~1M 32485-          5.0      1.6      5.9       5.2    100.0    100.0   100.0
Import (cine. NFS)               545.1     508.4    474.6       427.4    464.1    549.1       7.4     -6.7     -1.1       3.0     29.2     24.6    22.1
Exports       (import capacity) 417.2      304.1    275.5       328.2    324.1    436.8       2.7    -18.7      8.5       9.7     22.4     14.3    17.6
Resource Gap                     127.9     204.3    199.1        99.2    14 0.0   1123                                              .9     10.3     4.5
Consumption Expenditures        1588.8    1654.2   1669.1      1719.0   1829.1  2062.5        5.5      2.5      4.7       4.3     85.1     86.6    83.0
Investment       (incl. stocks) 405.5     447.2     458.3      465.0     474.2   535.0        9.7      6.3      1.7       3.1     21.7     23.8    21.5
Domestic Savings                 277.6     242.9    259.2       365.8    334.2   422.7        2.5     -3.3     13.5      10.3     14.9     13.4    17.0
Nationa.l Savings                271.3     269.5    309.7       402.1    375.1    447.5       3.2'     6.8     10.0       7.6     14.5     16.1    18.0
MERHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                          As Percent of Total
Imports                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1973  1974  1975
Capital goods                  116.0     149.6    199.8                         3942.                                                     08     2.
Intermediate goods (ecLfuels) 180.7     228.7     2 13.-7                      455.9                                            37.2     31.8    29.2
Puoels and related materials    41.8      74.8     87.8                         156.2                                            8.6     10.4    12.0
of which:   Petroleum        (41.8)    (74.8)  *(87.8)                      (156.2)                                           (8.6)   (10.4)  (12.0)
Consumption good               147.2    266.0     230.5       __         -     279.5                                           **-3      17 .-L0.  ...2L.5
Total Merch. Iprts (cif)      4QT.7      7 9T.1  ~T319        692.1    835.0  1200.9                                           100.0    100.0   100.0
Exports
PIrimar-y products (mml. fuels) 261.3   304.9     259.4                        581.6                                            79.7     80.1    79.0
FPuels and related materials    12.5     18.3      18.1                         36.0                                             3.8     4.8      5.5
of which:   Petroleum        (12.5)    (18.3)   (18.1)                       (36.0)                                           (3.8)   (4.8)    (5.5)
Manufactured goods              54.1      57.5     50.9                        132.9                                            16.      15.     15
Total Merch. Exports (fob)     327.9    3=T      3-79T       438.3     480.0   750.5                                            0.      100       00
Tourism and Border~ Trace        .         .        .
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Aveag 173 -        100
Export Price Index10.                   145       120        189.1     187.9   218.6
Import Price Index             100.0    159.0     168.4      178.6     195.3   239.7
Terms of Trade Index           100.0     91.5      84.3      105.9      96.2    91.2
Exports Volume Index           100.0     79.8      70.5       70.7      77.9   104.3
VALUJE ADDED) BY SECTOR            Annual Data at 1973 - Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
1967-72   1973-75  1975-80         1973    1975     1980
Agriculture                    645.1    624.1     666.7      700.0     724.5   808.4           2.6       1.5      3.79-         359.4   38 .1    3 6.2
Industry and Mining            306.2    306.2     299.2      314.2     329.9   395.3           5.0     -1.2       5.7           18.7    17.1     17.7
Service                        686.1    742.8     783.9      823.1     874.7  1029.5           6.1       6.8      5.6         ..Al9     -4..j    46 .A.1
Total                         16 37.4  167 3.1   1749.8     1837.2    19-29.1  2233.2          4.5      3.1       5.0          100.0   100.0    100.0
Prelim.       Est.
PUBLIC0 FINANCE                   FY 73    FY 74     FY 75      FY 76                                                               As Percent of GDP
(Cen-tral Government)-                                -                                                                            1973    1974     1975
Current Receipts              2284     3022      3900       399                                                                20.1     21.8     21.2
Current~       = edIues       2066     2695      3991       3630                                                                18.1    21.1     20.5
Busdgetar   aig                218      327       -91        364                                                               2T.1     -0.7      1.-4
Other Public Sector            564      754        ..                                                                           3.9      4.7
Public Sector Investment       956     1642     2352        2309                                                                9.9     12.6     12.5
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                   Actual        Prelim.    Eat.
As % Total Current Expend.            FY1972   FY1974    FY1975   FY1976
Education                               17.T    =7T        T5"      r7TT
Other Social. Services                  14.5    15.5       12.2      14.4
Agriculture                              8.9    12.1       13.3      7.0
Other Economic Services                 12.4    12.2       10.3       9.2
Administration aLnd Defense             36.2   '35.1       30.9      31.9
Other                                   10.3      7.9      18.3     20.4
Total Current Expenditures             100.0   10-0.0     10-0-.0  100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                196.5-    1973-     1975-   1975-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)            1972       1975     1977     1978
Average ICOR                                       77         T -  76  -T5 
Import Elasticity                                  1.6       -2.5     -0.2      0.6
9Mrginal Domestic savings Rate                     0.1      -0.2       0.4      0.3
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.2        0.6      0. 3     0.2
lABOR FORCE AND                       Total Labor Force                                     Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Million sTotal                                        In U.S.Dollars      Percent of Avertge
1971               171                                     1971                   1971
Agriculture                            5.3                91                                     98                      43
Industry                              0.1                 2                                    1590                    694
Service                               0.4                 7                                    2170                    948
Total                                 5.8              1f00-                                    ' 229                  100-
not applicable        - nil or.negligible
not available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown                                                                                               FA CPIA
February 1977



Page 4 of 4 pagee
-BAANCE OF PAYMENTS5 EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
-a    ,,unts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Anuasl
Actual                       Estimated                      Projected                                           arowth Rate
1973        1974       1975               1976         IL7         197d       *979         l                                1973-1980
SUMMARY bALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Eports (incl, NFS)                         417.2       465.9       461.0              576.0        621.7      809.8      915.2       1029.6                                13.8
Duports (incl, NFS)  545.1  779.1  794.2  750.1         890.2    1035.3      1158.5       1294.1                               13.1
Resore 'I.,ance (-M)                       -127.9     -313.2      -333.2              T:              -      -72T        -T3                  .310.9
Interest (net)                              -3.9         0          -2.1              -15.8        -17.9      -21.3      -28.1        -36.6                                38.0
Direct Invstment Income                     -7.4        -4.0        -7.3               -3.8         -3.6       -5.0       -5.0         -5.0
Workers' Remittance                             -          -                                                                                                               5- 
Curr&it Transfers (r t)                      5.0        45.3        93.0               83.3        100.0      100.0       100.0       100.0                                55.0
BIlan     oinCuPrf.rerAccountsa            -134.2     -271.9      -249.6              T-1;     1     §0.0    -151.8      -7                                                 6.3
Private Direct Invesatent                    9.9         6.3         5.6                6.0          6.0        6.0         6.0         6.0
Official Capital arants
Public MALT Loans
Disbursesats                              98.7       138.0L1     229.4-'            188.81        234.4     282.9       328.7       364.7                                21.0
-16.4       -14.1      -15.0               -21.6        -23.2      -23.9      -25.8        -34.2                                10.5
Net Disbursefents                           82.3       123.9      Y14.4       2        71.    2               TW59.0 302.9            330.5                                2{
Other MHLT Loans
Disbursements
-RerAret
Net Dplifbtursemts                                                            .                                                              ActuRl                   Estimated
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                 72.6        56.92/      20.43/             -3.9                                     1972      1973     1S74      1975       1976
Charo in Net Reserves                       -30.6       84.8         9.2              -58.9        LEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed 359.9    460.2     611.1     787.5      787.5
wAT   AND LOAN ODMMINTS
Official Orants & Orant-like                 58.5       65.8        96.8               123.7        Interest on Public Debt      6.6       8.2      8.6      11.2        12.8
Repayments on Public Debt   29.1      16.4     14.1      15.0        21.6
Public MhLT Loans                                                                                   Total Public Debt Service   35.7      24.7      22.7     26.2        34.5
D3RD                                          -       65.0        30.0                            Other Debt Service (net)
IDA                                        22.6       61.2        10.0                            Total Debt Service (net)
Other                                       1.8         7.1        7.1
Othar Multilateral                            -           -          -                          Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Goverments                                 82.8       127.1       91.3
Suppliers                                     -           -          -                            Public Debt Service          9.0       5.9       4.9      5.7         6.0
Financial Institutions                        -           -          -                            Total Debt Service            ..        ..
Bonds                                         -           -          -                            PDS.Direct Invest. Inc.     10.1       7.7      5.7       7.3         6.6
Public Loans n.e.i.
Total Public MhLT Loans                     107.1       260.4      138.4                          Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975                  Int. as % Prior Year DO&D    2.3      2.3       1.9       1.8        1.6
XIREIIL DMBT                                 Disbursed Onlv             P   ent                       Amort. as % Prior Tewr DfL&D  10.2     4.6       3.1       2.5        2.7
World Bank                                       5U.4 
IDA                                              80.8                   10.3                     IDRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Miltilateral                               19.0                    2.4                           as % Public Debt ODD       6.7      7.1       6.7      10.2       10.1
Governments                                     557.6                   70.8                           as % Public Debt Service4/ 3.5      8.9      12.5      18.4       20.4
Sunnller,                                        23.8                    3.0
Financial Institutions                           12.3                    1.6                      IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bornds                                            4.2                    0.5                          as % Public Debt O&D       13.7     12.5      10.4      10.3       12.0
Public Debts n.e.i                                9.4                    1.2                           o as  Public Debt Service4/  1.2    1.7       2.9       2.8        2.6
Total Public MhLT Debt                          787.5                   100.0
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                               e staff estimate                   1/ Includes drawing on Arab Fund for Africa ($7.1 m)
not available                                                 - nil or negligible               1/ Includes bilateral and rultilateral program assistance
... not available separately                                     -- less than half the               3/ Includes use of IMF resources
but included in total                                           smallest unit shown       4     / IBRD and IDA debt. service as 7. of public debt service
EA CPIA
February 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF APRIL 30, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.      Year      Borrower    Purpose                         Bank    IDAL/ Undisbursed
Four loans and nine credits fully disbursed                    70.2   57.0
586-TA   1969      Tanzania    Roads                            7.0              1.4
217-TA   1970          "       Tobacco                                 9.0       0.3
232-TA   1971          "       Education                               3.3       0.7
265-TA    1972         "       Roads                                    6.5      0.8
287-TA    1972                 Smallholder Tea                         10.8      3.2
371-TA    1973                 Education                               10.2      8.6
382-TA-/ 1973                  Livestock                               18.5      7.8
454-TA    1974                 Cotton                                  17.5     14.7
460-TA    1974                 Tanzania Investment Bank                 6.0      1.9
1014-TA   1974                  Cashewnut                       21.0             10.6
495-TA    1974                 Sites and Services                      8.5       4.5
507-TA   1974                  Highway Maintenance                     10.2      8.0
508-TA   1974                  Rural Development                       10.0      8.9
1041-TA   1974                  Sugar                            9.0              4.5
580-TA   1975                  Dairy                                  10.0       8.7
1128- A   1975                  Textile                         15.0             11.8
1172-TA   1975                  Tanzania Investment Bank        15.0             11.3
601-TA   1976                  Technical Assistance                     6.0      6.0
606-TA   1976                  National Maize Program                  18.0     15.7
607-TA   1976                  Education                               11.0     10.7
1306-T TA 1976                  Power                           30.0             30.0
1307-TA   1976                  Forestry                         7.0              6.9
652-TA*  1976                  Fisheries                                9.0      8.9
658-TA    1976                 Tobacco Processing                      8.0       7.9
1354-TA  3]977                  Urban Water Supply              15.0             15.0
1385-T-TA1977           "Morogoro Industrial Complex            11.5             11.5
1386-TTA.3  1977                Morogoro Industrial Complex     11.5             11.5
688-TA    1977                 Program Credit                          15.0     15.0
703-TA!/ 1977                  Rural Development (Tabora)              13.0     13.0
TOTAL                                            212.2  257.5    259.8
of which has been repaid                      2.1    5.7
210.1  251.9
Amount sold                       0.1
of which has been repaid    0.1
Total now outstanding.L/                         210.1  251.9
Total undisbursed                                114.5  145.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $1.4 is undisbursed.
31   Not yet effective
4/   Signed on May 11, 1977 - not yet effective.    Includes Canadian participation
of $4.8 million (Credit No. 703-TA-5).



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF APRIL   30,  1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancelleation
No.      Year    Borrower    Purpose                     Bank         Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                               93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC        Harbours                    35.0              1.6
674-EA   1970    EARC        Railways                    42.4              9.2
865-EA   1972    EAHC        Harbours                    26.5             4.6
914-EA   1973    EAPTC       Telecommunications          32.5             6.7
1204-EA   1976    EADB        Development Finance         15.0            14.8
Total                                          244.8             36.9
of which has been repaid                      37.1
Total now outstanding                          207.7
Amount sold                    24.4
of which has been repaid     24.4             0
Total now held by Bank-lI                      207.7
Total undisbursed                                36.9
/'   Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION!
(As of May 31, 1977)
There are currently 27 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - December 30, 1977
Project infrastructure investments are 95% complete, all 15
complexes and 114 villages are established and water development has
improved with 54 villages having permanent water supplies, 50 temporary
water and the remaining 10 are being surveyed for water. Only 314 km
of roads have been established compared with appraisal estimates of
1,104 km. The reduced road construction program is, however, considered
sufficient for present production. A total of 10,700 farmers, about
70% of appraisal target have been recruited and total production of wet
leaf from the project is estimated to have increased from 675,000 kg. in
1974-75 to about 1.2 million kg in 1975-76. Measures to enforce minimum
tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to increased
tobacco production. However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf
have been below anticipated levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and cooperative services.
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8
million Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an
improvement in the control over the field activities. A recent supervision
1/,
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
mission estimated that 5,734 hectares had been planted by the end of 1975/76
season, i.e. 69% of the target of 8,300 ha which should have been achieved
by June 1974. Yields are lower than expected due to competition from coffee
and/or maize in some areas and lack of labor and poor soil conditions else-
where. This may adversely affect the viability of TTA which is overstaffed
at lower levels and depends on factory profits for its revenue. TTA has
prepared an initial proposal for a second phase project but before proceeding
considerable examination of existing problems will be needed.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Project implementation has been extremely slow and disbursements
thus far have been consistently below appraisal forecasts. This reflects
the size and complexity of the project as well as delays encountered in
recruiting staff and concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs
and supply of heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected
to pick up momentum now that some of these problems have been resolved. How-
ever, a number of post-appraisal developments such as marked reduction in
the world market price of bully beef and meat products, escalation of project
costs, the availability of adequate beef supplies, delays in project imple-
mentatinn and the weak financial position of the implementing organizations
have adversely affected viability of the project. Because of this an in-
depth review was undertaken by Bank staff and consultants;the draft report
of the mission has been discussed with the Government and a plan of action
has been prepared for execution.
Credit No. 454-TA Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
This project continues to face severe operational difficulties
although progress has been made during the year in the consolidation of
scattered holdings into village block farm areas. There have been continuing
difficulties in effectively using technical assistance particularly in integrating
project management with the regional authorities. More important, recent ana-
lysis of research data by RMEA and the Bank-financed project preparation team
in Mwanza has raised questions about the technical package originally recom-
mended for this project. This matter received a close examination by the
Bank technical review mission which visited Tanzania in March and the recom-
mendations of that mission were endorsed by the Government. Actions based
on these recommendations will be closely reviewed during subsequent supervision.



ANNEX 'II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consoli-
dation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its Finance and Accounting
Department needs strengthening to speed up the establishment of meaningful
financial and physical control over the Authority's activities. Recruit-
ment of senior staff at departmental head level needs to be intensified
in order to develop capacity for growth resulting from the project's
construction of five additional cashewnut processing factories.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The rate of construction of most village infrastructure during
the past six months has been impressive. The villagers' self-help con-
tribution is extremely positive and the organization of Government
services has considerably improved, although the supply of critical
materials still presents a bottleneck. The construction of classrooms
and godowns is going on very well but performance on health facilities
and on water supply systems is disappointing, the latter due to limited
implementation capacity of the Regional Water Engineer's Office. Agri-
cultural performance is mixed. Last year's crop seems to show sizeable
increases in the regional production but yield levels are low. Moreover,
farmer commitment to the present season's crop seems mixed with late
planting and limited interest in procuring inputs. Proposed Government
programs of village-level trials and improved agricultural extension have
not yet begun.  Delivery of part of the present season's inputs has been
delayed by the unavailability of train wagons in Dar es Salaam. Marketing
of last season's crops proceeded generally satisfactorily, although problems
of cash advances continue to arise and credit payment is only about 35%.
Training of village bookkeepers and extension workers is going according
to schedule. Little progress has yet been made on the minor project com-
ponents of fisheries, feeder roads and livestock. The baseline survey
for project evaluation is virtually completed and promises interesting
results.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate and outgrower development continues satisfactorily and
ahead of schedule. Project management is confident that all clearing
and planting could be completed one year earlier than forecast. The new
factory was opened by the President of Tanzania on August 3, 1976 and com-
menced milling on September 10, 1976. Initial teething problems have
hampered output and attempts are being made to sort these out. The
housing construction program has improved and completion will only be
slightly behind target. There continue to be difficulties in the
provision of adequate project funds from the Government and the lack of
a clear policy for cane growing by estate, outgrowers, and ujamaa villages
is likely to affect future supplies.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - November 13,
1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Progress on the development of the large farms has been generally
satisfactory although they are facing difficulties owing to a lack of
adequate working capital. The Government and Project entities are cur-
rently exploring ways to deal with this problem. Sub-projects for the
ujamaa component are presently being identified. The Dairy processing
component is in general progressing well.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project:   $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of. Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the National Maize Project has had a satisfactory start
it is now beset by a number of problems. The deficiencies of support
services, the lack of extension field staff, shortages of transportation
and the instability of regional supervisory staff are limiting the effective
and systematic transmission of innovations to farmers. Contribution of
farmers to the financing of project inputs for the 1975/76 season have
been disappointing but do represent rather   a   significant improvement
over the previous year's performance. Deficiencies in coordination bet-
ween the central ministry responsible for the overall project and the
regional authorities in charge of local implementation have caused diffi-
culties but the Government is taking specific steps to address this issue.
The recent disbandment of cooperative unions has created a serious gap in
the maize marketing system which the National Maize Corporation (NMC) has
difficulties to fill.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0 million
Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progess achieved during the 1975/76 planting season was satis-
factory. For the next year's planting program -- the first project year --
it is envisaged that 2,000 ha would be planted compared with 1,500 ha in
the appraisal estimate. The Project Director, the Silviculturalist/Forest
Economist and Financial Controller have been recruited. The Roads/Mechanical
Engineer is still not recruited. The fire hazard in the area is particularly
serious this year as the dry period started two months earlier than normal.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
So far, project implementation is satisfactory particularly
the components under the direct management of the Ministry of Natural
Resources. However, Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) is experiencing
difficulty in reaching agreements with the District Development Corpora-
tions for the establishment of the commercial fishing centers. The DDCs
appear to be reluctant to enter into joint ventures as minority share-
holders with TAFICO. As a result of the delay in project approval, there
has been some delay in project implementation. The project Coordinating
Committee therefore proposed a new implementation schedule to the November/
December 1976 supervision mission which was endorsed by all parties involved.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date -e December 31, 1981
This project was declared effective February 15, 1977.
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: $13.0 million Credit of May 11,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
These Credits are not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 12 months
to December 31, 1977 to provide ample time for its completion. All
civil works, furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil
works are about 80% complete and are expected to be completed before
the current Closing Date. Ineffective project unit management, currently
under-staffed because of budgetary problems and shortage of qualified
personnel, has limited follow-up activities and delayed correction of
deficiencies. A number of changes in programs and management of the
institutions involved in this project have been discussed with the
Government.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.2 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced to about 25%
over appraisal estimates as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion
of three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on
civil works. Out of 18 project institutions, construction works have started
on 10 sites. Disbursements are only 15% of appraisal estimates. Time lost
in design and tendering is being made up, but project completion is likely
to be about 12 months behind schedule. A medical health consultant has
given impetus to the lagging medical health components of the project.
The experimental self-help construction project item (eight Community
Education Centers) requires special attention in future to help overcome
problems of supply, distribution and control of building materials and
supervision of construction standards. Disbursements are not a good
criterion of the progress of implementation, which is now satisfactory.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
A good start has been made with respect to the Village Management
Technicians (VMT) Training Program. All five Rural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated and instructional staff trained. VMT courses commenced



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
at three of the five Centers. Budgetary constraints are likely to impose
a reduction in the level of training activity in the coming year. The
Project Executive Unit is adequately staffed. Also, the program has been
handicapped by slow procurement of vehicles and equipment and delays in
the construction of housing. Planning and tendering for schools in the
secondary schools component are progressing well.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:-/ $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Project implementation has been slow and the Closing Date
of the project has been postponed twice. The new construction on the
Mikindani-Mingoyo section of the Mtwara-Mingoyo road was virtually com-
pleted in December 1976. A more detailed investigation of pavement,
subgrade and material sources is required before work can commence on
repair, iSiprovement and resealing of the road from Mtwara to Mikindani. The
Mara Betterment and Maintenance Unit has completed its work and except
for a small maintenance unit, the equipment and personnel have been sent
to assist the Geita unit. We have received one of the two pre-investment
studies financed under the project. Project completion is now estimated
by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$4 million worth of equipment, and tenders for a furtherUS$1.8
million worth have been approved. A contract for 634 man-months of
technical assistance has been signed and 18 of the 21 experts have com-
menced their duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deploy-
ment of equipment and training of maintenance personnelare in hand.
/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million.  When the project was completed, surplus funds of US$1.9
million were allocated to the Third Highway Project in 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $8.5
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The project is proceeding well. The construction work on all
seven sites iB expected to be completed on schedule. Other components
of the project are progressing satisfactorily. Because of the incon-
sistency of the Credit documents with the subsequently passed Land Rent
and Services Act, some modification of the documents was necessary. The
proposed amendment was approved in April 1977.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
A revised construction schedule prepared by consultants indicates
that the project will be commissioned in May 1980, compared to the original
target date of October 1979. This may have a bearing on the development
of the Morogoro Industrial Estates Project (Loan No. 1385-T-TA and Loan
No. 1386-TA). Little progress has been made with regard to the appointment
of senior advisers for the project and it is doubtful that these posts will
be filled hy July 1, 1977.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date -
June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 20, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this Loan are proceeding quickly. Sub-
projects totalling $11.3 million have been approved for disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project is progressing extremely well and project execution
is on schedule. Tenders for the bulk of the plant and machinery have been
evaluated and contracts placed with suppliers. Contracts for civil works
have been concluded. The cost of the project is currently well within
appraisal estimates. A study by consultants to examine the feasibility
of establishing a textile plant to produce cotton-polyester blend material
is under way.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0 million
Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - September 14,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
After some delays, the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) selected
TATA Consulting Engineers to provide personnel to implement the project.
The contract was signed in October 1976   and   the  personnel  arrived
in late 1976. TIB has taken preliminary steps to market the facilities
under the project to parastatals and Government agencies. Considering
the limited publicity given, the response is encouraging. However, many
potential users have not responded yet and a more intensive and extensive
effort is necessary. The studies for improving efficiency on existing
investments and the implementation of the training program had not com-
menced at the time of the last supervision mission.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial Complex:
$11.5 million loan on Third Window Terms and $11.5 million Bank
loan, both of April 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
These loans are not yet effective.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1. 1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Contractor's offers for all major works and the main civil engi-
neering bids indicated there would be significant cost overruns*. A recent
Bank mission prepared a revised project cost estimate which indicates that
the total project cost will be about $128 million, 45% above the appraisal
estimate. The financing issue is under discussion between TANESCO and the
Government.
*The Government's consultants have made recommendations to reduce civil
works construction costs by the modification of some specifications.
Alternative offers have been requested from the contractors, and a new
tender evaluation report will be prepared. TANESCO is still negotiating
the proposed engineering contract for construction supervision.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Credit No. 688-TA - Program Credit: $15.0 million credit
of March 24, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - May 3, 1977;
Closing Date - May 31, 1978
This Credit was declared effective on May 3, 1977.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project:   $42.4 million loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of
consultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial
issues. Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed
their asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have
submitted a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 15,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976
to December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All loan
funds are committed under contract, which have been awarded. Some smaller
project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA will have to be
deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs and lighters
financed by CIDA have occurred, and their credit has been increased accord-
ingly from Can.$26.0 million to Can.$33.5 million. Port labor productivity
has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined con-
siderably. General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths financed under Loan 865-EA have
been completed and are being used. Cargo handling productivity here has
improved with increasing throughput.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This Loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. Six sub-
projects have so far been received from the EADB of which three have
already been approved for a commitment of $2.2 million against this
Loan; the remaining projects are under review.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
All major works other than microwave of UHF/VHF system con-
struction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the head-
quarters. Because of the long time lead required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979.
The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SECOND NATIONAL SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
1. Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:               14 months
(b)  Preparation by:                      Ministry of Lands, Housing
and Urban Development
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:        June 1975
(d)  First Bank mission:                  October 1975
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:         September 1976
(f)  Negotiations:                        May 1977
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:       October 1977
2.  Special Bank Implementation Actions:      None
3.  Special Conditions
(a) Assurances were obtained that the recommendations of the Land Rent
and Service Charge Study will be discussed with the Association
and a timetable for implementing its recommendations will be agreed
by December 31, 1977. In addition, agreement was.reached on specific
charges for squatter areas pending the result of this study (para 32).
(b) Assurances were obtained that the guidelines for the urban MCH
program will be prepared by the Ministry of Health by December 31,
1977 (para 38).
(c) THB confirmed Government approval for importation of cement for
the material loans (para 40).
(d)  The Government agreed to take whatever actions are necessary to
ensure the continued viability of THB's lending program in upgrading
areas if the default rate on that program exceeds 25% (para 41).
(e) A legal title form to be used in squatter upgrading areas was
agreed (para 41).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) Simplified lending procedures will be used in THB's lending program
in the upgrading areas (para. 41).
(g) At least ten feasibility studies were on potential product lines
will be submitted to the Association by September 30, 1977 (para. 42).
(h) Procedures and criteria for selecting entrepreneurs for the SIDO
component were agreed (para. 51).



