CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 732 TA
Project Agreement
(Second National Sites and Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
Dated November 3, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 732 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 1977 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION (hereinafter called
SIDO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that SIDO agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and SIDO, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to SIDO on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SIDO, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SIDO shall carry out Part F (1) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and industrial practices.
Section 2.02. (a) SIDO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, which obligations shall
include, inter alia, that SIDO shall be repaid the funds lent to
participants in Part F (1) of the Project in eight years including
up to two years of grace at an interest rate of eight per cent per
annum.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SIDO
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the SIDO Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) In order better to implement Part F (1) of
the Project in Tanga and in Tabora, SIDO shall have appointed by
September 30, 1977, for each town, a Project Coordinator and a
Project Economist.
(b) SIDO shall have appointed, by December 31, 1977, a
Technical Advisor in Tanga and in Tabora and other consultants, if
necessary, all acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and
all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association to assist in carrying out Part F (1) of the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. SIDO agrees that (a) the respective Project
Coordinators will be responsible, subject to appropriate review
by regional authorities, for the selection of candidates and the
preparation and organization of projects for its on-going hire-
purchase program in Tanga and Tabora towns and for the selection
of candidates to utilize the infrastructure in the clusters
described in Part F of the Project; (b) the respective Project
Economists will be responsible for preparing feasibility studies
for small projects, developing financing packages, arranging and
supervising credit from various sources, and following up on
collections; (c) about 50% of the hire-purchase funds with respect
to Part F (1) (b) of the Project shall be used for industries
located on the clusters described in Part F (2) of the Project and
the remaining amounts shall be used for industries located off
such clusters; and (d) eligible participants for Part F of the
Project shall include cooperatives, associations and individual
artisans.
Section 2.05. With respect to Part F (1) of the Project, SIDO
shall submit by September 30, 1977, ten feasibility studies
acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials included in
Part F (1) (b) of the Project shall be procured in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) SIDO shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b) SIDO shall establish and maintain a separate Project
Account to be used exclusively for purposes of the Project and
shall record therein all receipts and payments for or in
connection with the Project.
Section 3.02. SIDO shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of SIDO and the
audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information
and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Association and SIDO shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit are accomplished. To
that end, the Association and SIDO shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration,
operations and financial condition of SIDO, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.02. The Association and SIDO shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or SIDO of their                   .
respective obligations under the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. SIDO shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine the records referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SIDO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SIDO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Deyelopment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SIDO:
Small Industries Development Organization
P.O. Box 2476
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
SIDEV
Dar es Salaam


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. SIDO shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SIDO,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by SIDO pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SMALL INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT
ORGANIZATION
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


