CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 732 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Sites and Services Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 3, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 732 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 1977, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts E and F of the Project will be carried out by the
Tanzania Housing Bank (hereinafter called THB) and the Small
Industries Development Organization (hereinafter called SIDO),
respectively, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to THB and SIDO,
respectively, the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(C) The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the project
agreements of even date herewith between the Association and
THB and SIDO, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Ardhi" means the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
Development of the Borrower;
(b) "SIDO Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SIDO of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
such project agreement;
(c) "SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SIDO pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to such subsidiary
loan agreement;


﻿-3-
(d) "THB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and THB of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
such project agreement;
(e) "THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and THB pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to such subsidiary loan
agreement; and
(f) "TShs" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 3 to this.Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-an ally
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March
1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 1987, and ending March
1, 2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, through Ardhi, shall carry
out Parts A, B, C, D and F (2) of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering, public utility and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause THB to carry out Part E of the Project and
SIDO to carry out Part F (1) of the Project and to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the THB Project Agreement and
the SIDO Project Agreement, respectively, and the THB Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respec-
tively, all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable THB and SIDO, respectively, to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action wbich would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend such portion of the proceeds
of the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association for Part E


﻿-7-
of the Project to THB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and THB on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the following:
with respect to funds for the purchase of imported cement repayment
shall be in 20 years inclusive of five years of grace; interest shall
be payable at three per cent per annum; and the Borrower shall
bear the foreign exchange risk.
(d) The Borrower shall relend to SIDO such portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as shall be disbursed by the Association
for Part F (1) of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SIDO on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the
following: with respect to funds utilized for the hire-purchase
program described in Part F (1) (b) of the Project repayment shall
be in ten years inclusive of three years of grace; interest shall
be payable at three per cent per annum; and the Borrower shall
bear the foreign exchange risk.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the THB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the THB Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
of either.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association to assist the Borrower
in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall discuss with the Associ-
ation the recommendations of the Land Rent and Service Charge
Study, including, without limitation, the level and composition of
plot charges, and terms and guidelines for collection, and shall
agree with the Association by December 31, 1977, on a timetable
for implementing the appropriate recommendations of the Study.
(b) Until such time as the recommendations referred to in
paragraph 3.03 (a) are implemented, the Borrower shall set and
collect, or cause Ardhi to set and collect, land rent and service
charges (i) on surveyed plots in accordance with the provisions of
the Land (Rent and Service Charge) Act, 1974, No. 19 of 1974, as
amended from time to time; and (ii) on unsurveyed but registered
plots at TShs 100 per house as revised from time to time by the
Borrower.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall allocate, or cause to be allocated, the plots
to be developed under Part A (2) of the Project in accordance with
the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall provide participants in Part
A (1) of the Project with Offers of a Right of a Sdort Term Right
of Occupancy the terms and conditions of which shEll be satisfac-
tory to the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that all necessary
approvals for the importation of cement for house construction
or improvement loans under Part E of the Project shall promptly be
granted.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all appropriate steps
to ensure the continued financial viability of the lending program
pursuant to Part A (1) of the Project if the default rate on
repayments of loans made by THB to persons living in an area
described in said Part A (1) shall exceed 25% of the total amount
of such loans outstanding from time to time.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that the Sites
and Services Division of Ardhi is appropriately structured,
adequately staffed and provided with sufficient resources to
implement the Project effectively.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be
prepared, guidelines for the urban mother and child health clinics
included in Part A (3) of the Project, by December 31, 1977, or
such later date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause the infrastructure and
community facilities included in Part A and F (2) of the Project
to be maintained, operated and staffed in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, public utility, public health
and educational practices, as the case may be, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for this purpose.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to Lhe Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (a) cause Ardhi to maintain separate
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
cause Ardhi to furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall, within three months of the
Closing Date, prepare, in consultation with the Association and
submit to the Association, a report evaluating the Project.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Until the completion of the Project:
(a) the Borrower shall cause Ardhi to establish and maintain
a separate Project account to be used exclusively for the Project
in which Ardhi would record all of Ardhi's receipts and expendi-
tures for or in connection with the Project; and
(b) the Borrower shall cause Ardhi to: (i) have the Project
account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the Project
account for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the Project
account and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) THB or SIDO shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the THB Project Agreement or SIDO Project
Agreement, respectively;
(b) the Borrower or THB, or the Borrower or SIDO, shall
have failed to perform any of its respective obligations under the
THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
respectively;
(c) the organization, powers or responsibilities of THB
or SIDO shall have been altered so as to affect adversely the
execution of Part E or Part F, respectively, of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower and THB and SIDO; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the THB Project Agreement on behalf
of THB has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the SIDO Project Agreement on behalf
of SIDO has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(c) the execution of the THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and THB, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(d) the execution of the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and SIDO, respectively, has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:


﻿- 15 -
(a) that the THB Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by THB, and is legally binding upon THB in accordance
with its terms;
(b) that the SIDO Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by SIDO, and is legally binding upon SIDO in
accordance with its terms;
(c) that the THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and THB, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and THB in accordance with its terms;
and
(d) that the SIDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SIDO, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SIDO in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date February 2, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.08 and 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                                 440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  6,100,000         70%
(2) Furniture,
equipment,
materials and
vehicles
(a) Imported                1,500,000        100% of foreign
goods                                    expenditures
(b) Goods pro-                500,000         75% of local
cured locally                           expenditures
(3) Consultants'                 2,100,000        100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures
and 75% of local
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                  1,800,000
TOTAL       12,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "'local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases
or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent


﻿- 20 -
of $200,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
February 1, 1977.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficent to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot- fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿- 21 -
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide financial and technical support over
the years 1977-1981 to assist in the implementation of the
Borrower's current national sites and services program. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A:
(1) The improvement of the basic infrastructure and
related facilities, including, inter alia, roads,
water supply, drainage, and power supply, on existing
squatter settlements comprising approximately 16,000
houses in ten areas: in Dar es Salaam at Mtoni/Tandika,
at Mbagala, and at Hanna Nassif; in Tabora at Isebya
and at Kiloleni; in Tanga at Gofu Juu and at Mwakizaro;
in Morogoro at Msamvu and at Kichangani; and in Iringa
at Kihesa.
(2) The provision of surveyed land and installation of basic
water supply systems for approximately 19,000 surveyed
plots, of which about 75% are in Dar es Salaam, 9% in
Iringa, 7% in Tanga, 5% in Tabora and 4% in Morogoro.


﻿- 23 -
(3) The construction of, and the provision of equipment and
furniture for, community facilities (approximately 12
primary schools, one medical outpost, two new, and
upgrading of three existing, mother and child health
clinics and six markets) in the communities
included in paragraph (1) of this Part.
Part B:
The purchase and utilization of an adequate number of
vehicles and equipment to assist in carrying out the
Project.
Part C:
Strengthening the capability of Ardhi to implement
the Borrower's national sites and services program
by providing technical assistance for detailed design
and engineering work, for tendering and supervision
of infrastructure, for on-the-job training of
engineering assistants, for support in financial
management, community development, training and
preparing a management manual, for monitoring the impact
and effect of the Project, and preparing further urban
development projects.


﻿- 24 -
Part D:
Study of land rent and service charge in urban areas.
Part E:
The provision by THB of (1) house construction and
improvement loans to persons living in the existing
communities included in Part A (1) of the Project
or having acquired plots included in Part A (2) of
the Project, and (2) loans for building workshops
and sheds included in Part F (2) of the Project.
Part F:
(1) The provision by SIDO in Tabora and Tanga of:
(a) expanded management training and technical assis-
tance; and
(b) production equipment and critical raw materials
to strengthen its on-going hire-purchase program.
(2) The provision by Ardhi of infrastructure for industrial
clusters.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works included in Part A (1) and
(2) of the Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines) including the
pertinent provisions of the General Introduction thereto, on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works included in Part A (3) of the
Project and for the purchase of equipment and vehicles shall
be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's applicable proce-
dures.
2.   Contracts for hire-purchase equipment and raw materials shall
be awarded in accordance with SIDO's applicable procedures.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 shall be
awarded in accordance with the Borrower's ordinary procedures.


﻿- 26 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin of
preference jn accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established


﻿- 27 -
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such'
goods includes a value added in Tanzania equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 28 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of the Guidelines and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be


﻿- 29 -
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part D above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions


﻿- 30 -
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would


﻿- 31 -
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 4
Allocation of Plots
1.   Information concerning the availability of plots and terms of
occupancy will be disseminated by the Borrower through the mass
media and other appropriate means.
2.   Interested persons will submit applications for surveyed plots
to either Ardhi, Regional Land Offices or District Land Offices, as
the case may be, for analysis. The results of this analysis will
be forwarded to the Land Allocation Committees in the respective
regions or Districts, as the case may be, for selection in accor-
dance with specified criteria, with preference given to inter
alia:
(i) applicants previously displaced by public works
projects;
(ii) applicants with large numbers of immediate
dependents residing in the household;
(iii) applicants who do not own a house in the
approximate area where the surveyed plots area is
located;
(iv) applicants who have spent long periods of time on
waiting lists for housing;
(v) applicants whose residence and employment are
in Dar es Salaam, Tabora, Tanga, Iringa or Morogoro;
and
(vi) households with monthly incomes below TShs 1,000.


