CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 732 TA
Project Agreement
(Second National Sites and Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA HOUSING BANK
Dated November 3, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 732 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 1977 between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
TANZANIA HOUSING BANK (hereinafter called THB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that THB agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and THB, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to THB on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS THB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. THB shall carry out Part E of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, as well as with the
policies and procedures for loans set forth in Schedules 1 and 2
to this Agreement, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. THB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, THB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. THB shall have appointed by September 30, 1977,
sufficient additional staff including, without limitation, a
Procurement Officer, to ensure that Part E of the Project is
implemented effectively.
Section 2.04. THB shall establish in a timely fashion in the
areas referred to in Part A (1) and (2) of the Project offices and
material depots in order to improve the access and supply of
building materials, including cement, corrugated iron roofing
sheets and joinery, to participants in Part A (1) and (2) of the
Project.


﻿ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) THB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) THB shall establish and maintain a separate Project
account to be used exclusively for purposes of the Project and
shall record therein all receipts and payments for or in connection
with the Project.
Section 3.02. THB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of THB and the
audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Association and THB shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit are accomplished. To that
end, the Association and THB shall from time to time, at the
request of either party exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of THB, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.02. The Association and THB shall promptly inform
each other of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under
this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or THB of their
respective obligations under the THB Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. THB shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine the records referred to in Section 3.01
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations-of the
Association and of THB hereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
THB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Sect.ion 6.01. Any notiep or requml  required or permitted to
be giv-a or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
-I parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For THB:
Tanzania Housing Bank
P.O. Box 1723
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
HIFADHI
Dar es Salaam


﻿Section 6.02. THB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of THB, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by THB pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA ROUSING BANK
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Policies and Procedures for House
Construction and Improvement Loans
Under Part E (1) of the Project
A.   Procedures
1.   Applications for house construction or improvement loans, may
be made by persons living in an area described in Part A(l) of
the Project and persons allocated plots pursuant to The provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement. Such applications will be in the form prescribed
by THB and will be completed with the assistance of the appropriate
officials of THB. The availability of loans will be publicized in
the areas described in Part A (1) of the Project and provision
will be made for applicants to obtain and submit applications in
these areas.
2.   For all individual applicants, THB will, before approving
such applications, take into consideration the total income, from
all sources, of the household as well as the prospective rental
income if the applicant intends to build a house which will
include rental space.
3.   In considering applications from persons living in an area
described in Part A(l) of the Project, THB will use procedures
similar to those used for its rural lending program. In accordance
with such procedures, applicants will be required to produce the


﻿- 11 -
Offer of a Right of a Short Term Right of Occupancy, but appli-
cants will not be required to pay valuation fees, and mortgages
will not be required as security for such loans.
4.   In considering applications from persons allocated plots
pursuant to provisions set forth or referred to in Section 3.04 of
the Development Credit Agreement, THB will use procedures similar
to those normally used for low-cost housing.
5.   For applications from housing cooperatives, THB will, before
approving such applications, take into consideration the household
and prospective rental incomes of all members of each such
cooperative.
6.   Housing cooperatives' accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year shall be audited by the Borrower's
Registrar of Cooperatives not later than six months after the end
of each such fiscal year.
7.   THB will disburse cash or materials under an approved loan
pursuant to the construction and inspection schedule set forth in
the loan agreement between the approved applicant and THB.
B.   Policies
With respect to all loans approved pursuant to the procedures
set forth or referred to in paragraph A of this Schedule, the
following terms and conditions will apply:


﻿- 12 -
(i) Amount: total investment requirements of the
applicant for house construction or improvement
as specified in the approved loan application.
(ii) Interest: in accordance with THB's normal policies.
(iii) Repayment period: a maximum of 20 years including
a maximum grace period of one year.
(iv) Security: such security as THB shall reasonably
request, consistent with the procedures referred to
in paragraphs A(3) and (4) of this Schedule.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procedures and Policies for Loans
under Part E (2) of the Project
A.   Procedures
Applications for industrial shed construction loans may be
made by applicants in the program described in Part F of the
Project. Such applications will be in the form prescribed by THB
and will be completed with the assistance of the appropriate
officials of SIDO and THB.
B.   Policies
Only loans up to TShsl20,000 may be approved under Part E (2)
of the Project, and the following terms and conditions will apply
to such loans:
(i) Interest: not less than eight per cent (8%)
per annum.
(ii) Repayment period: a maximum of fifteen years
including up to two years of grace.
(iii) Downpayment and Security: such downpayment and
security requirements as THB shall reasonably
request.


