Report No. PID8890
Project                          Mozambique-Flood Emergency...
Recovery Project (FERP)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Multisectoral
Project ID                       MZPE70432
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Planning and Finance,
Central Bank of Mozambique
Environment Category             C
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 10, 2000
Date Final PID Prepared          March 27, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 13, 2000
Circumstances of the Disaster
Heavy rains, which started in early February 2000,
have flooded parts of Mozambique's southern provinces
of Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane, Sofala, and Manica,
resulting in the largest natural disaster that the
country has experienced in recent memory. The
Limpopo, Incomati, Umbeluzi and Save rivers, which
gather their head-waters in South Africa, Botswana and
Zimbabwe, reached their highest-ever recorded levels
in early March, and many riparian communities were
submerged under water for weeks. As of March 23, 640
people have died and some 650,000 are in need of
substantial assistance. Altogether, about 1.9 million
people have been affected by the floods and one
million will require at least some emergency
assistance, in the form of life-supporting services,
until they can resume sustainable livelihoods.
Physical and social infrastructure in the affected
areas remains in disarray. Large sections of the only
paved road that connects Maputo, the capital, to the
north of the country have been demolished. Small
bridges on the elevated road over the Limpopo flood
plain, and sections of the railroad connecting the
Mozambican port of Maputo to Zimbabwe, have been
damaged or washed away. The Government estimates that
about 20,000 cattle have drowned and 140,000 hectares
of crops have been destroyed, constituting a large
shock to the productive economy. Health centers,
water supply, and sanitation in affected towns and
villages have suffered extensive damage, placing as
many as one million people at greater risk for water-
borne diseases such as cholera, malaria, and
diarrhoeal disease (a leading killer of children).



Preliminary Damage Assessment
Bank staff, working closely with the Government,
Mozambique's development partners, and the IMF, have
prepared a preliminary estimate of the impact of the
flood disaster on the Mozambican economy, entitled "A
Preliminary Assessment of Damage from the Flood and
Cyclone Emergency of February-March 2000", dated
March 27, 2000. Direct costs of the disaster are
estimated to total US$273 million, or about six
percent of projected GDP for 2000. Preliminary
estimates indicate that economic growth in 2000 will
be 1.6 percent lower as a result of the disaster,
falling to about 5.4 percent for the year, and
inflation will rise from about 6.6 percent to 9.5
percent. In 2001, GDP growth is expected to
accelerate to 7.9 percent, boosted by reconstruction
activities. Additional fiscal expenditures associated
with reconstruction activities is expected to be about
US$300 million spread over the period 2000-2001.
The disaster will have serious short-term economic
consequences for Mozambique, but the Government can
manage them provided that it continues to implement
its economic reform program and obtains sufficient
external support to finance the emergency recovery and
rehabilitation effort. The largest direct costs to the
budget will be repairs to the road, rail, and power
systems, estimated to total about US$70 million if
replaced to the same standard, though costing up to
US$136 million if replaced to an improved standard
with lower flood-loss exposure. The current account
deficit (before grants) is expected to widen by about
US$325 million in 2000, or 8.5 percent of GDP, and by
US$58 million in 2001, or about 2.7 percent of GDP, as
a consequence of the floods. The estimated total
effect on the balance of payments shows a financing
gap of US$206 million in 2000 and US$49 million in
2001. This external gap will be reduced by
accelerated debt relief from IDA and the IMF under the
enhanced HIPC framework as well as the deferral of
debt service granted by the Paris Club. The remaining
external gap is expected to be financed by additional
donor grants, reprogramming of existing IDA credits,
additional financing under the IMF PRGF program, and
this proposed IDA Flood Emergency Recovery Project.
The International Donor Conference to be held in Rome,
Italy, in May will serve to confirm pledges made to
date and secure any additional assistance required to
fully meet Mozambique's external financing needs.
Impact on the Poor
The United Nations estimates that about 491,000 people
have been either displaced or trapped in isolated
-2 -



areas as a result of the floods, which, more than six
weeks after the onset of the emergency, have not yet
receded fully. About 70 percent of these people were
very poor even before the disaster, living on less
than US$0.40 per day. As a result of the floods, many
have lost all of their capital assets-including their
homes, their crops, and their livestock-and require
basic life-supporting services to survive this
difficult time. Opportunities for on- and off-farm
work in their home areas have also been foreclosed, at
least until the rains end and the flood waters recede.
Small traders and entrepreneurs in the affected areas
have been hit especially hard, as many have suffered
heavy losses of inventory with minimal or no insurance
coverage. As a result, there is likely to be an
increase in poverty in the affected region (offset to
some degree by growth associated with the
reconstruction effort) until activity in agriculture,
trade and industry are restored to former levels.
Response of the Government and the International
Community
The Government's macroeconomic policy response to the
emergency has been appropriate and effective. It has
been working closely with its international partners
to organize and mobilize external financing for the
recovery and reconstruction effort. Although the
initial response was somewhat disorganized, progress
is rapidly being made in defining institutional
arrangements and organizational structures to support
the recovery effort. A large number of agencies and
donors are currently active in Mozambique, providing
humanitarian aid, and many of the same donors have
pledged additional support for reconstruction.
According to Government sources, as of March 22, 2000,
about US$118 million of external emergency assistance
had been provisionally committed. In addition, the
IMF is expected to augment Mozambique's access to PRGF
resources and consider the PRGF review on an
accelerated schedule to help limit the impact of the
disaster on the economy. Despite the disaster, the
Government has also reaffirmed its intention to
continue pursuing its medium-term development agenda,
including its economic reform program.
Bank Response and Strategy
During the flood, the Bank received a request from the
Government of Mozambique for emergency assistance.
The Bank's response is being closely coordinated with
the IMF and with other donors in the Core Group of
donors providing assistance to Mozambique in response
to the emergency. IDA is responding to the disaster
in the following ways:
-3-



Preparing a preliminary assessment of the damage
resulting from the flood and cyclone emergency. From
March 12 to 24, Bank staff have worked with national
authorities, the IMF, and other donors in the field to
prepare this assessment, which will be a key
contribution to an International Donor Conference
scheduled for April 26-27, 2000.
Preparing this Flood Emergency Recovery Project to
contribute towards financing the balance of payments
needs resulting from the disaster.
Restructuring and reallocating existing projects in
the portfolio through appropriate amendments to the
relevant Credit Agreements in order to provide high-
priority and fast-disbursing short- and medium-term
assistance for rehabilitating physical and social
infrastructure. (Over US$24 million has already been
identified for reallocation in existing roads and
water projects.) IDA will also review and modify, as
necessary, projects and non-lending services currently
scheduled or under preparation to ensure that future
IDA support addresses the Government's development
agenda adjusted to reflect priorities resulting from
the damage.
Proposing to the Board, in the context of the Enhanced
HIPC Framework, an acceleration of debt relief to
Mozambique through various modalities to cover 100
percent of IDA debt service due over the next twelve
months, so that IDA debt service obligations do not
become an obstacle to Mozambique's ability to respond
to emergency rehabilitation needs.
Enhancing, over the longer term, the institutional
capacity for disaster preparedness and management.
Project Objectives
The proposed Flood Emergency Recovery Project would
seek to assist Mozambique to maintain macroeconomic
stability by helping to sustain a higher level of
imports necessary for rehabilitation and
reconstruction. The additional foreign exchange
resources are needed to enable the country to import
food, equipment, machinery, and other materials while
maintaining the soundness of balance of payments and
the budget. This Bank support is being closely
coordinated with other multilateral and bilateral
agencies.
Project Description
The Flood Emergency Recovery Project will provide
immediate, quick-disbursing balance of payments
-4 -



support to finance the purchase of equipment and
commodities on a positive list of imports needed for
the rehabilitation effort. The list of eligible
imports will be determined in consultation with the
Government and is likely to include food, fuel,
construction materials, agricultural inputs, essential
health and education supplies, and parts, machinery
and equipment for commercial and industrial use. Both
the composition of the positive list and the
procurement rules to be applied will allow flexibility
in order to accelerate disbursements and minimize
distortions in the foreign exchange market.
The Government is expected to use the Meticais
counterpart of the loan funds to finance the higher
public expenditures required for the reconstruction
effort while maintaining macroeconomic stability.
These counterpart funds are expected to contribute to
a supplementary budget earmarked for the Government's
emergency recovery and reconstruction program, which
is likely to include infrastructure rehabilitation as
well as emergency aid to flood-affected communities,
including the provision of seeds, tools and other
essential agricultural inputs; temporary shelters and
services for displaced persons; and emergency food aid
until the next harvest.
Project Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (MPF) in close collaboration with
the Bank of Mozambique. The credit may be disbursed
through a US Dollar Special Account to be established
at the Bank of Mozambique. The Special Account would
be replenished as and when needed to ensure timely
disbursement of funds to cover eligible imports. The
corresponding funds in national currency will be
disbursed through an account managed by the
Government. The credit will finance 100 percent of
the delivered cost of general imports, excluding
import duties and taxes, subject to a positive list
agreed with the Government. Procurement will follow
World Bank guidelines. Up to 20 percent of the loan
will be used for retroactive financing of
expenditures. Adequate quarterly reporting
requirements and audit trails will be provided by the
MPF and the Bank of Mozambique.
In keeping with OP/BP 8.50, this emergency operation
will not include conditionality linked to
macroeconomic policies, though Bank staff will
continue to monitor economic developments in close
collaboration with the IMF to help ensure adequate
macroeconomic management during this difficult period.
- 5 -



Project Timing
The project will be implemented over a one-year period
and is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Environmental Category
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the
proposed operation has been placed in Category C and
does not require an environmental assessment.
Major Benefits and Risks
The project has several benefits. The import
financing provided by the credit will provide timely
balance of payments support to the Government in view
of the additional import demands generated by the
effects of the floods and the cyclone. It will also
be critical to maintaining macroeconomic stability
while rehabilitating and restoring productive capacity
in Mozambique and ensuring procurement and delivery of
adequate supplies of essential equipment, materials,
and commodities for the construction, social, and
agricultural sectors. The counterpart funds generated
by the sale of foreign exchange will provide the
Government with an important source of non-
inflationary finance for its emergency recovery
program at a time when there will be need for
additional government expenditures due to lower than
projected economic growth. It will complement the
support for short- and medium-term rehabilitation that
will be provided through the restructuring and
reprogramming of ongoing operations in the portfolio,
and assistance provided by other multilateral and
bilateral agencies.
There are two major risks. First, there is some
macroeconomic uncertainty associated with the economic
impact of the floods and the Government's ability to
maintain stability in the face of increasing fiscal
and external pressures. The project itself will
directly address this risk. To this end, it is
extremely important that disbursements under the
operation not be delayed. Second, emergency recovery
programs can provide an environment conducive to
misappropriation of resources. The project will
address this risk through due diligence in
procurement, independent audits, and a periodic review
of project accounts by IDA staff.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
- 6 -



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
James Coates
WB Country Office Manager, Maputo,
Mozambique
Telephone: 533-201, (258-1) 492-841/51/61/71
Johannes Zutt
Operations Officer
Telephone: (202) 473-1262
Fax:        (202) 522-3158
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 14, 2000.
- 7-



