Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: MZ-24415
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-33360)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR THE
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
12/19/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = Metical
US$ 1.00 = 23,710
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM           Banco de Mocambique
BOP           Balance of Payments
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EMPSO         Economic Management ans Private Sector Operation
ERL           Emergency Recovey Loan
EU            European Union
FERP          Flood Emergency Recovery Program
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOM           Governnent of Mozambique
HIPC          Highly-Indebted Poor Country
IDA           International Development Association
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INGC          Instituto Nacional de Gestao de Calamidades
MOP           Memorandum of the President
NGO           Ncn-Govenmental Organization
OCHA          Office of the Coordinator of Humanitarian Assistance
OP            Operational Policy
PARPA         Plano de Accao para a Reduqao da Pobreza Absoluta
PEMR          Public Expenditures Management Review
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSR           Project Status Report
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
ROCS          Roads and Coastal Shipping
SDR           Special Drawings Rigths
TTL           Task Team Leader
UN            United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
WFP           World Food Program
WHO           World Health Organization
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director.   Darius Mans
Sector Manager:   Philippe Le Houerou
Task Team Leader:    Dipac Jaiantilal



MOZAMBIQUE
Flood Emergency Recovery Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 7.1. Table: Inflation and Exchange Rates, 2000-2001                        26
Annex 7.2. Table: Selected Economic Indicators, 1999-2001                        27
Annex 7.3. "Technical Annex for a proposed credit of SDR 22.4 million (US$30 million  28
Equivalent) to the Republic of Mozambique for a Flood Emergency Recovery Project"
April 7, 2000
Annex 7.4. "Changes to IDA portfolio in Mozambique, as a Result of the Flood     55
Emergency"
Annex 7.5. Table: "Evolution of the donor response to the Govemment's appeal for the  57
Reconstruction Program for 2000/2001, as of 30/04/05"
Annex 7.6. Govemment/Implementation Agency Comments                              58






MOZAMBIQUE
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
(Credit No. IDA-33360)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Flood Emergency
Recovery Project (FERP) in Mozambique, for which a Credit IDA-33360, in the amount
of SDR 22.4 million (US$30 million equivalent) was approved on April 20, 2000, and
made effective on August 9, 2000. The Credit was closed on December 31, 2002, as
initially envisaged.
This ICR was prepared by Dipac Jaiantilal, Senior Economist and Task Team
Leader, PREMI. James Coates and Johannes Zutt, co-task team leaders during the main
part of the credit life, made very useful contributions to the Report. It was reviewed in
June 2002 by Philippe Le Houerou, Sector Manager, PREMI, and Johannes Zutt, Acting
as Country Director at the time of the Review. It was approved by Darius Mans, Country
Director for Mozambique, Angola and Malawi. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR through information provided to the author, and agreed to the
content of the Report.
I would like to acknowledge and thank also the following colleagues: Hassan
Zaman, Senior Economist, PREMI and Maria Teresa Benito-Spinetto, Research Analyst,
PREMI, who provided written comments for the Review meeting; Maria Teresa Benito-
Spinetto updated the Annex Tables 7.1 and 7.2; Peter G. Moll, Senior Economist,
PREMI who proofread several drafts of this ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began in November 2001. It is based on discussions with
Bank staff, Government Officials and other donors.






Project ID: P070432                                       Project Name: Flood Emergency Recovery Project
Team Leader: Dipac Jaiantilal                             TL Unit: AFTPI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Flood Emergency Recovery Project               L/C/TFNumber: IDA-33360
Country/Department: MOZAMBIQUE                                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Power (20%); General transportation sector (20%);
Health (20%); General education sector (20%);
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
(20%);
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/10/2000                              Effective:                    08/09/2000
Appraisal:  03/16/2000                                MTR:
Approval:  04/20/2000                               Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lnqplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
PLANNING AND BANK OF MOZAMBIQUE
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:      Darius Mans                               Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:       Philippe Le Houerou                       Philippe Le Houerou
Team Leader at ICR:  Dipac Jaiantilal                           James H. Coates and Johannes Zutt
ICR Primary Author:   Dipac Jaiantilal
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institntional Development Impact: M
Bank Peiformance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entiy: S                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.A. Project Development Objective of FERP (Flood Emergency Recovery Project). The



project was designed to assist the Government of Mozambique (GOM), in view of the damage
caused by the floods and cyclones Connie and Eline, in implementing its program to maintain
macroeconomic stability, by helping to finance the costs of imports required for rebuilding
physical, social and economic infrastructure, and for re-establishing production levels. The GOM
would be able, through the FERP, to withdraw proceeds of the credit in a quick fashion, on the
presentation of statements of expenditure for imports appearing on a positive list, which included
electricity, petroleum products, construction materials, medical supplies, school supplies,
agricultural equipment, industrial machinery, electrical equipment and machinery.
It must be made clear at the outset that: (i) FERP was only one small piece of the World Bank's
overall response to the emergency, as the Bank made use of a broad range of instruments it has
available to create a comprehensive response, and (ii) the Bank's response was designed to take
into account and to influence positively, the response of the International Community, including
the United Nations (UN) system, other multilateral and bilateral donors and Nongovernmental
Organizations, or NGOs.
Besides FERP, the other important elements of IDA's response were: the first comprehensive
multisectoral damage assessment of the damages resulting from the emergency, accelerated debt
relief, and rehabilitation financing through restructuring as necessary, active projects in the IDA
portfolio. Preliminary damage assessment preparation was quickly done by a World Bank
multisectoral team, in close cooperation with the Government, a core group of donors working
with the Government on reconstruction assistance, and the IMF, in an open and transparent way,
which resulted in its wide acceptance. The assessment results were contained in the document
titled "A Preliminary Assessment of Damage from the Flood and Cyclone Emergency of
February-March 2000," completed on March 27, 2000. This assessment is summarized in the
Technical Annex of the FERP credit (see Annex 7.3.) The assessment made a clear distinction
between relief and reconstruction, which had not been, until then, fully grasped by most other
donors and GOM, and helped to shift their orientation away from humanitarian relief towards
rehabilitation and reconstruction. It computed estimates of the direct damages, putting them at
US$ 273 million, and the reconstruction costs at US$ 428 million. Thus anxiety about the size of
the damage was contained", and the ability of the GOM to respond to it increased
correspondingly. It made an important contribution to the Govemment's own overall assessment,
which was presented at an Intemational Donor Conference on Reconstruction that took place in
May 2000.
Debt relief of additional US$ 10 million was facilitated on April 6, when the World Bank Board,
in the context of the Enhanced HIPC Framework, approved accelerated debt relief to
Mozambique to cover 100 percent of IDA debt service due over the following twelve months, so
that IDA debt service obligations did not become an obstacle to Mozambique's ability to respond
to emergency rehabilitation needs.
Rehabilitation financing through IDA was carried out through the reprogramming, as necessary,
of existing projects in the IDA portfolio, to provide assistance for rehabilitating physical and
social infrastructure, as this was believed to be a faster and more flexible way to meet
Mozambique's rehabilitation needs than designing and implementing a new multisectoral flood
-2 -



rehabilitation project (see Annex 7.4). Of particular note is the ROCS II project, that had a
'set-aside for emergencies' in the DCA, providing for the use of a set amount of resources - up to
US$ 6 million - under streamlined procurement review and approval procedures (i.e. negotiated
sole source). Bank staff favored rehabilitation through existing projects because it rightly feared
that aid, flowing in an emergency context, would otherwise lead to bypassing existing
governments systems and safeguards, thus rolling back some gains made in building capacity and
ownership since the end of the war.
Background. Up to the occurrence of floods in February-March 2000, Mozambique had been
making considerable progress in macroeconomic stabilization and growth since it first launched
economic reforms in 1987. These reformns brought a shift from the failed central planning system
towards a market-oriented economy and a reduction in the role of the state in the economy. A
sound economic program was implemented, that together with the lasting peace accord, brought
about growth rates that have been among the highest in the continent, and even worldwide. GDP
averaged 5.5 percent during the period 1987-96, accelerating to 10 percent in 1996-1998.
Inflation had remained high until the mid-90's, but fell sharply from 54 percent in 1995 to 2.9 per
cent in 1999, following the partial privatization of the two largest state banks. Underpinning this
high-growth and low-inflation perfonnance until 1999 were prudent fiscal and monetary policies,
accompanied by substantial external aid and a sound program of structural reforms based on
privatization, financial sector reforms and trade liberalization. Fiscal adjustment was accompanied
by a shift of resources to the social sectors, and the implementation of better policy strategies in
health and education led to improved social indicators.
In spite of these good results, Mozambique remained one of the most indebted countries in the
world, suffering from acute internal and external imbalances, and it continued to be extremely
dependent on foreign assistance for the delivery of basic social services. It is still one of the
poorest countries in the world. Poverty, isolation, illiteracy and disease characterize the everyday
life of most Mozambicans, who often feel that the benefits of growth are not reaching them. Per
capita income in Mozambique, at US$210 in 2000, was below the average for sub-Saharan Africa
(US$500) and the low income group (US$410). The Human Development Index, an index of
income, education and life expectancy, ranked Mozambique 170 out of 173 countries. Key social
indicators for Mozambique continued to be below the averages of Sub-Saharan Africa and those
of low-income countries as a whole.
In addition, Mozambique is very exposed to natural hazards. From 1965 to 1998, twelve floods,
nine droughts, and four typhoon landfalls have occurred in various parts of this long coastal
country. Unusually heavy floods in 1971 and 1977 were comparable to those in 2000, resulting in
300 to 500 deaths and affecting half a million people each. Droughts have been even more
devastating, by several orders of magnitude. Drought and famine in 1980, 1983, 1985 and 1992,
exacerbated by ongoing warfare and political-economic instability, resulted in 100,000 deaths and
affected over 17 million people. This combination of hazard exposure and historical vulnerability
has created a situation in which, from 1965 to 1998, the annual average death toll due to
droughts, floods, typhoons and epidemics was 3,300 people, with an annual average total of
nearly one million people affected.
-3-



The Unprecedented Flooding. From February 4 to 7, 2000, due to the effects of cyclone
Connie, Maputo City received 455 mm of rainfall, or nearly half the average annual total. Similar
exceptionally heavy rains across southern Mozambique exacerbated normal seasonal flooding,
inundating low-lying areas. From February 20 to 22, heavy rainfall associated with cyclone Eline
boosted rainfall totals in neighboring South Africa, Zimbabwe and Swaziland, filling reservoirs on
river basins draining through southern Mozambique and triggering more extensive flooding,
particularly along the Limpopo, Incomati and Umbeluzi rivers. It was the first time in recorded
memory that all three river systems flooded at the same time in Mozambique. Although flooding
had receded from peak levels recorded in early March, continuing rainfall together with releases
from dams upstream kept river levels high for most of March 2002. The provinces most affected
were Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane, Sofala and Manica, with a total population of about five million.
The flooded area constituted about 11 to 12 percent of cultivated land in the affected provinces.
According to the official agency for disaster management, or Instituto Nacional de Gestdo de
Calamidades (INGC), 700 people lost their lives and about two million people, or 12 percent of
the national population, experienced severe economic difficulties due to the flooding, including
491,000 people who were either displaced or trapped in flood-isolated areas (see pages 32-36, for
estimates of the disaster's costs included in the (Technical) Annex 7.3, with a breakdown in terns
of the human, sectoral and overall economic impact). As the waters receded, high levels of
standing and contaminated water exposed many of these people to heightened risk of diarrheal
disease, cholera and malaria. About 70 percent of these people were very poor even before the
disaster, living on less than US$ 0.40 per day. As a result of the floods, many lost all of their
capital assets - including their homes, their crops, and their livestock - and required basic
life-supporting services to survive this difficult time. Opportunities for on- and off-farm work in
their home areas were also foreclosed until the flood waters receded. Small traders and
entrepreneurs in the affected areas were hit especially hard, as many suffered heavy losses of
inventory with minimal or no insurance coverage. As a result, there was an increase in poverty in
the affected region. Break points in the transportation system, resulting from destroyed roads,
bridges and railways, separated people in the affected areas from food, water, and essential
services. More permanent structures such as schools, clinics, and municipal buildings also
sustained damage or were emptied of their contents. In addition, electrical and
telecommunications grids were ripped apart, and water systems and sanitation systems rendered
inoperable through siltation. In sum, the flooding devastated the affected areas and caused
considerable loss of life and property.
During the flood, the Bank received a request from the Government of Mozambique for
emergency assistance. Thus the Bank responded through the damage assessment, rehabilitation
financing, accelerated debt relief and this project of emergency financing, FERP.
3.1.B. Assessment of FERP Project Objective and Design. The Project's primary objective
was defined in a clear manner: to help maintain macroeconomic stability at a time when the
hard-earned gains mentioned above were at risk of being lost, due to the extent of the calamity.
From the Bank's global experience it was clear that the role it should concentrate on, was in
contributing to macroeconomic management of the shock, and to the conceptualization and
financing of the reconstruction phase. There is no doubt this was an important objective, and its
identification was done quickly, as required by the circumstances, amongst a number of options.
-4 -



The FERP credit amount of US$30 million equivalent was based on an assessment of the adverse
effects of the floods on the balance of payments, after taking account of several factors. The first
one was the revised set of macroeconomic projections of the budget and BOP deficits,
considering indicators such as growth, inflation, and other variables, obtained by working with
Government, IMF and the donors, particularly USAID and Netherlands. This was done by late
March 2000, only three weeks after the call to action. Secondly, the assistance expected from
other bilateral and multilateral donors, including the IMF, was taken into account, according to
the indications obtained in loco from these donors. It is worth mentioning that these expectations
were largely met in the International Conference of Donors, that took place in May 34, in Rome.
To the request of US$450 million, donors announced US$453 million in pledges in Rome, and
confirmed US$470 million after Rome. Thirteen months after the floods, US$192 million had
been disbursed, and US$348 million was committed in signed agreements (see Annex 7.5 for
more details per country and international organization.) The third factor taken into account was
the support for short and medium term rehabilitation provided by IDA through restructuring and
reprogramming of ongoing operations in the portfolio. IDA enhanced access and changes to its
portfolio were already mentioned in 3.1 .A, namely the reprogramming of US$17.5 million of
ROCS II in response to the floods plus $2.5 million for emergency road repairs.
Another laudable aspect of the development objective was the aim of helping avoid a greater
budget deficit after grants, in that the counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange
would provide the Government with an important source of non-inflationary finance for its
emergency recovery program, at a time when there would be obvious pressure for additional
government expenditures, and diminished revenues due to lower than projected economic growth.
Subsequently the appropriate instrument, an ERL, or Emergency Recovery Loan was chosen,
firstly because of its emergency nature, and secondly, because it could include a quick-disbursing
balance of payment support operation to help achieve stabilization of foreign exchange, money
and commodity markets. In effect, an ERL was the only instrument offering the possibility of
speedy processing, as well as quick-disbursing funds. The project team's response to the
emergency was quick, taking a mere 45 days from concept review to Board. This was important
not only for the need of funds to be made available in a timely fashion, but for the positive
"signaling" effect against the negative expectations that the floods generated initially, particularly
noticeable on the exchange rates (refer to the table of Annex 7.1)
According to Banks procedures and rules, ERLs require that funds may be disbursed only against
a positive list of imports. This entails a greater amount of administrative work embedded in the
implementation arrangements than a straightforward adjustment operation. For example, the
Central Bank was required to present invoices of imports to justify disbursements (a fact that
caused the Governor of BOM to raise complaints about the positive list, which he characterized
as a return to the more restrictive and outdated adjustment credits). To minimize the potential
adverse impact of this requirement on the emergency nature of the support, the arrangements for
procurement and disbursements were streamlined to the extent feasible, while seeking to ensure
that overall legitimate concerns about due diligence, transparency and accountability were
addressed. For example, the positive list was made very broad and the procurement limits were
- 5-



increased as much as was reasonable in the Mozambican context.
3.2 Revised Objective:
NA
3.3 Original Components:
The size of the credit was set at US$30 million equivalent, the residual projected financing gap as
explained above. The Credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign costs of imports on the
positive list, excluding import duties and taxes. In order to make the ERL approximate a balance
of payment or budget support operation, as explained earlier, the list included a wide range of
items, viz.: (i) construction materials, vehicles, electricity and fuel that are needed for
rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, including transport, water, sanitation, power, buildings,
etc. and for the recuperation of private enterprise; (ii) agricultural inputs (including fertilizers and
seeds), equipment, materials, machinery and fuel needed to reestablish agricultural outputs; (iii)
livestock, animal products, and veterinary medicines; (iv) medical supplies and equipment needed
for hospitals, health centers, and health posts that were damaged; (v) school supplies and
equipment needed for schools and educational facilities that were partially or totally destroyed;
and (vi) machinery, spare parts and equipment for commercial and industrial companies. No
disbursements would be made to cover used goods, luxury goods, or military equipment. The
Credit would also finance 100 percent of the foreign costs and 80 percent of the local costs of
consultant services (including audits) for purposes of the project, up to a ceiling of US$ 335,000
equivalent.
Since the key was to make the disbursement procedures as simple as possible, the team
encouraged the GOM to consider requesting IDA to make direct payments for bulk items such as
petroleum products and electricity, which were included in the positive list for this very reason. In
the end the credit was almost fully disbursed in about four months against petroleum products
imported in bulk by Mozambique.
3.4 Revised Components:
NA
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A quality at entry report was carried out on March 2001, by a QAG panel of reviewers, with an
overall assessment rating of "satisfactory". The assessment of the several aspects of the project
carried the rating "satisfactory" for six aspects: (a) "technical, financial and economic aspects";
(b) "poverty and social aspects"; (c) "fiduciary aspects"; (d) "policy and institutional aspects"; (e)
"implementation arrangements" and (f) "risk assessment and management", while the aspect of
"concept, objectives and approach" carried the rating "highly satisfactory".
This ICR take the view that the overall "Quality at Entry" of the project is "highly satisfactory",
chiefly because the FERP was an entirely appropriate supplementary intervention, very rapidly
prepared in a highly strategic Bank response to the flood emergency. Not only were the concept,
objectives and approach very satisfactorily dealt with, but so also were the technical and economic
aspects, the implementation, management and risk assessment arrangements of FERP. The
project was in line with the Bank Group's CAS, aimed at reducing poverty in Mozambique
-6 -



through sustainable and broad-based economic growth. It also was in accord with the
Government poverty reduction objectives and strategy, articulated in the Program of the
Government 2000-2004 and in the PARPA (The Plan of Action of Reduction of Absolute
Poverty) 2000-2004. It was important to make available resources to stabilize the commodities
and foreign exchange markets in order to maintain the gains in the macroeconomic management
achieved in recent years, underpinning the experienced rapid economic growth, in the face of the
strong supply shock that the floods represented. These resources were also key to managing a
potential deepening of the budget deficit and to financing the import requirements of
reconstruction efforts after the emergency relief. FERP contributed to these objectives not only
directly, but also indirectly by helping to mobilize balance of payments support of other
multilateral and bilateral donors, through the revision of the macroeconomic framework, and
support given to the Intemational Conference.
The FERP credit itself did not contain a specific plan of action to address issues of disaster
management at national and regional level, including capacity building. That was by design, rather
than from having ignored the fact that Mozambique was (and still is) prone to repeated natural
disasters, or that the country needed to enhance its capabilities to address the issue [see pages
40-42, for ways and costing vulnerability reduction, disaster prevention and preparedness included
in the (Technical) Annex 7.3]. It resulted from the explicit recognition of coordination of efforts
among donors: these capacity building and disaster management aspects were left to other
agencies and donors, such as the United Nations, the EU and the Netherlands, which were
already, and continue to be, active in these areas. The reasoning was that the latter were better
equipped to contribute to the solution of these issues, in large part because they already had
relationships with the relevant entities, or were executing related programs, and had capacity
in-house to provide further support. In short, there was no need for the Bank to get involved in an
area where other competent donors were willing and able to take the lead and where the Bank at
the time did not have an obvious comparative advantage. In that way, the Bank was freed to
concentrate its activity, for quick delivery, in the areas of its comparative advantage in
Mozambique. This decision was put to the test when in 2001, the Government had to organize
relief efforts, and mobilize donor support, upon the occurrence of the floods in the Zambezi and
Manica Rivers River, affecting predominantly the region center and the north of the country. The
fact the Government was able to respond quickly and appropriately, with the support inter alia of
the United Nations System, to the emergency after the 2000 floods indicates that, at least to some
extent, capacity-enhancement in the relevant institutions had in fact occurred.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcopne/achievenzent of objective:
The project outcome is rated "satisfactory". The immediate objective of the credit, to stabilize
the macroeconomic environrnent in the short run, in the face of the strong negative extemal
shock, was in large part attained. The extemal position improved compared to the previous year,
as measured by the current account after grants, and while the overall budget deficit increased for
reasons unrelated to flood-related costs (the increase was planned in the budget for 2000), the
FERP credit had a positive impact on the primary budget deficit, due to its very nature of a credit
to the Govemrnment. Prices and exchange rates stabilized by mid 2000, while growth, even if
.7-



smaller than the post-flood projection, was preserved in the year 2000, and a resumption of strong
growth was witnessed in 2001 (see table in Annexes 7.1 and 7.2)
As a positive outcome, it is worth mentioning the leveraging of further bilateral external financing
that this operation contributed to, with regard to bolstering the flows of external funds to maintain
macro-stability and meet reconstruction needs. By revising the macro framework quickly, jointly
and openly, not only were the fears of collapse of the currency, spiraling inflation and recession
dampened, but also the contributions of the donors were bolstered and the objectives of greater
foreign inflows were attained. Indeed the Project succeeded to act as a catalyst for the support
of other multilateral and bilateral agencies, largely shown in the assistance confirmed at the
International Reconstruction Conference of May, specifically convened for this purpose. More
detailed comments follow.
Concerning the balance of paymnents, the current account deficit after grants for the years 2000
and 2001, at 17.6 per cent and 8.8 per cent respectively, was lower than FERP estimates, with
gross international reserves at the end of the year having been temporarily strengthened at the end
of 2000 from 5.5 months to 6 months of imports. FERP financing contributed directly to the
reduction dollar for dollar of the overall BOP deficit, and indirectly through the catalytic effect of
the Bank support on increased assistance from other donors.
The actual outcome of the fiscal deficit after grants, at 4 per cent in 2000, was a lower than
projected deficit largely due to higher than expected grants, and in 2001, a slightly higher deficit,
due to the higher than anticipated capital expenditures'. The counterpart funds generated by the
sale of foreign exchange provided a source of non-inflationary finance to the budget, reducing the
overall fiscal deficit in the amount corresponding to the value of FERP credit.
As for inflation, after jumps in the monthly rates of February, March and April, totaling 11.5 per
cent, due to shortages caused by the losses of production as a result of the floods, the inflation
rate tended to stabilize over the rest of the year of 2000 - the accumulated rate of the year never
exceeded the 12.3 per cent reached in May, and by end-November was at 9.9 per cent, to end the
year at 11.4 per cent, approximately the same level as in April. In general, it is difficult to
disentangle the partial effects derived from a single factor on objectives and outcomes, when the
latter depend on several factors - unless there is available a tested model, disaggregated enough to
estimate the effects in a fairly accurate way, which is not the case here. This means that the effects
of the FERP can not be computed in an isolated fashion. Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that
its financing, together with the donor grants it helped to mobilize, and the positive expectations it
created, had a beneficial impact on the control of the inflation in 2000. In other words, the
absence of FERP would have led to a worse inflation outcome'.
Regarding exchange rates, a similar path as that of inflation rate occurred in the year 2000. The
Metical depreciated in three months about 18 per cent from February to April 2000, while in the
next six months the depreciation rate was a tiny 2.4 per cent. This stabilization of the metical was
largely a result of the "signaling effect" of the IDA credit approval on the market, which believed
that enough resources would be forthcoming from the international community to help the
economy to overcome the macroeconomic consequences of the floods.
- 8-



As for the resumption of growth and productive capacity, there was a sharper than anticipated
decline in growth in year 2000, with a growth rate of GDP of a mere 1.6 per cent (compared to
the post-flood projection of 5 per cent.) This was however more than compensated by a stronger
rebound in 2001, when the estimates by the Government indicate an increase of GDP to about
13.9 per cent".
4.2 Outputs by components:
NA
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The objective of the credit, being that of macroeconomic stabilization as a result of an emergency,
did not require, strictu sensu, a component for institutional development. Nevertheless, both in
the MOP and in the Technical Annex, appended here as Annex 7.3, it was understood that other
donors with more experience in this area would play the necessary important role in developing
the capacity of the national institutions to face similar catastrophes with more swiftness, efficiency
and comprehensiveness. The UN system, for example, was well placed by mandate and worldview
to deal with strengthening the INGC and working with the Government Committee for
Emergency Management, headed by the Prime Minister with'the Minister of Foreign Affairs as its
operating Secretary. It contributed to improvements in capacity of Government structures dealing
with disaster management, including the INGC and corresponding sectoral units, mainly via
UNDP/OCHA, UNICEF, WFP and WHO. Also, the Dutch, Italians and French were supporting
various aspects of flood control, dike rehabilitation, irrigation rehabilitation along the Limpopo
Valley, in some cases with large programs, the EU supported such activities along the Zambezi
River, and USAID was investigating dam reconstruction. While we believe that the Bank's choice
was right, an expert assessment of the progress made in this area at a latter stage would
complement nicely the initial assessment by the Bank, which included a disaster management
specialist, and could have been included in the planning exercise to make it possible to evaluate
professionally the results achieved in these crucial areas, and if necessary, propose reinforcing
measures.
For the reconstruction effort, the institutional framework was provided by the Ministry of
Finance, in close coordination with other relevant line ministries. The Bank's assistance was via
budget support, and other Donors were encouraged to go the same route, as many did.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The extension of the credit followed naturally existing Bank rules for the ERLs, or Emergency
- 9-



Recovery Loans requiring under OP 8.50 that the funds be disbursed against a positive list of
imports. The Bank staff recognizes nevertheless that (i) money is fungible, (ii) these requirements
run contrary to the spirit of the a liberalized forex market the Bank have encouraged countries to
follow, and (iii) in many recent cases such as in Honduras, and Bangladesh, ERLs were used only
for quick disbursing BOP support on an emergency basis. These rules are outside the control of
the Government and could not be by-passed. The result was that the Central Bank had to come up
with invoices of commercial imports of petroleum products bought on a competitive basis, with
an additional administrative burden for the involved parties.
Following the preparation of the FERP, and in response to their experience, the staff proposed a
change in the procurement rules for future credits governing the Bank's Emergency Recovery
Credits, such that the component of quick-disbursing BOP support be structured the same way as
adjustment lending without conditionality linked to macro policies, when extended to countries
with an IMF program in place - with the fiduciary concerns addressed through the monitoring
proper use of the counter value funds, or the enhanced budget resource envelope. Absent an
immediate solution, and to minimize the problems encountered by the inclusion of the positive list,
the project team proceeded not only to broaden the positive list and to increase the procurement
limits as much as advisable, given Mozambique's record of public financial management, but
additionally sought to waive the limit of 50 per cent on withdrawals against any single class of
eligible expenditures. This accommodated in particular the request made by the GOM in October
20, 2000, for most of the funds to be used to finance imports of petroleum products. Another
supporting reason for the waiver was the terms of trade losses to Mozambique due to the rise in
oil prices in the world markets in year 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
After the approval of the credit by the Board, there was a delay of around two months in
submitting the required proper documentation, namely the implementation agreement to be
executed on behalf of the Government as the Borrower, and the Bank of Mozambique, the
implementation agency. This delay happened despite the fact that (i) a sample implementation
agreement was provided during Credit negotiations, and (ii) the legally required documents
evidencing that the execution and delivery of the DCA had been duly authorized and ratified by
the Borrower and the Bank of Mozambique, and the DCA was legally binding on these parties.
The Government attributed the delay of the legal opinion to a vacancy in the position of the
Attorney General.
Another delay was related to the auditing contract. There was correspondence exchanged first,
for the request and subsequent approval of "no objection" to use the auditor that had been
working with BOM to do the work on a single-source selection basis, and later for the high
auditing fees included in the proposed contract, compared to average annual cost of project
audits. Under advice from the Bank, BOM undertook to renegotiate the fees, which were cut
down to one half or less than the amount that the auditors initially proposed, from US$42,500 to
a maximum of US$22,200 per quarterly audit, calculated on a piece work basis. This negotiation
saved money to the Government in the two audits that were done on this project, though the
longer process also contributed to the delay in the effectiveness date of the loan - which then was
only possible by August 9, 2000.
-10-



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There was a delay of two months in the presentation of the 2001 audit, which was submitted in
March, 2002 instead of January 31, 2002.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
In SDR terns, 97 percent of the US$30 million equivalent credit was disbursed by the end of
calendar year of 2000, and 98.6 percent in August 2001. Of these amounts, only US$13,800 were
used for audit services payments - less US$31,600 than the total cost of the audit, because of the
less then totally efficient mechanisms in the implementation problems. The major part of the credit
was used to finance imports of petroleum products needed for the emergency relief efforts and
restoration of production levels of goods and services, at a time when oil prices were also
experiencing a sharp temporary upward spike.
6. Sustainability
6.) Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated "Likely". We take sustainability as referring to the probability
of maintaining beyond the short term the achievements generated in relation to the primary
objective of macroeconomic stability of this credit. As generally is the case with such an objective,
that probability depends primarily on the continued commitment of the authorities, their
preparedness and decisiveness in taking the appropriate corrective measures. Seen from this
viewpoint, the sustainability of this particular project, aiming at short term macro-stability and the
financing of imports, does not depend on the way it was designed. Therefore, it does not make
much sense to take sustainability as one of the main characteristics of this project. Despite
Mozambique's generally good record in macroeconomic stability, there have been some
worrisome signs in the recent past. Namely, we have witnessed the resurgence of inflation in
2001, excessive monetary growth in the last two years, and a deterioration of the primary fiscal
deficit in the same period. However, these problems did not result as a consequence of the flood
emergency, but from other unrelated reason. In particular, the problems in the banking and
financial sector peaked in this period, and the ad-hoc resolution of the two bankrupt banks with
the largest government participation took a huge toll on the public resources and led to a sharp
increase in domestic debt, serviced at the prevailing very high market interest rates of above 30
percent. Nevertheless, the macroeconomic program agreed with the IMF in the context of PRGF
continues to be on track, with the authorities being determined to maintain it so, and the policy
dialogue proceeding between the Government and the multilateral organizations in order to devise
the appropriate remedies to these problems. The successful negotiations and recent approval of
the EMPSO adjustment credit, aiming inter alia at addressing the financial sector related
problems, and those of the public expenditure management area, give reason for confidence that a
return to stability will be achieved, as the Authorities put efforts to address defacto the
underlying causes of recent macroeconomic instability. In 2002, the annual inflation rate has been
coming down steadily from a peak of around 22 percent in 2001, and it is projected to return to a
single digit level by the end of the year.



In terns of medium and long term sustainability, since the country is bound to be subject to other
natural disasters of cyclical nature, the factors that become more important are the strengthening
of the institutional capacity for disaster prevention, forecasting ability (early warning systems) and
preparedness in general. In particular, it is important to improve flood management at local,
provincial, national level and at regional-SADC level, including contingency planning. Despite
some intentions stated in the MOP document, in the context it was designed, this project in itself
did not contribute directly to efforts in these areas. Progress was achieved mainly by the other
channels, on account of the relative comparative advantages of the actors involved this project,
namely by the United Nations and selected bilateral donors. The enhanced access of the sector
projects, including reallocation of funds to reconstruction, to the extent that they supported
measures to improve long term sustainability in these sectors, can be considered an IDA
contribution, more than a FERP contribution. No doubt progress was at least partly achieved, as
the Government response to the 2001 floods in the center part of the country attests, but certainly
there is much room for improvement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
An emergency loan of this nature is by definition a transitory arrangement, designed to contribute
to bring back a situation of stability with a minimum of disruptions. Unresolved issues in terms of
long term sustainability may be worth pursuing in Mozambique by the Bank, perhaps explicitly
recognizing them in the next CAS, given the recurrent nature of the disasters. This need not be
done necessarily in the form a separate project, as it could well be addressed in the context of a
programmatic lending instrument.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending by Bank was highly satisfactory. The project was rapidly identified, appraised and
negotiated during a single mission, from March 12 to 29, 2000, and approved by the Board on
April 20, 2000 (approval was delayed by a Board recess due to the 2000 Spring Meetings.) The
preparation benefited from the experience of Bank teams that prepared responses to hurricanes in
Guatemala and Honduras, the Turkey flood and earthquake, and the Bangladesh flood, and
assistance from a well-chosen set of peer reviewers and quality assurance team.
Besides the two co-leaders of the project, one Washington-based and the other Maputo-based,
the large mission comprised a good mix of skills: a specialist in disaster mitigation, sector
specialists capable to prepare the crucial Damage Assessment, macroeconomists because of the
objective defined, specialists in procurement, disbursement, and financial management, and a
lawyer. The costs were contained as many sectoral staff that were to come to Mozambique in
March or April for project preparations or appraisals, were persuaded to adjust their arrival with
the timing of the core team.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was satisfactory. A positive feature was that one of the TTLs was the Resident
- 12 -



Representative, who met the Governor of BOM on a weekly basis to discuss the Bank's issues;
hence although no formal supervision mission was carried out, there was an effective continuous
supervision out of the Resident Mission (Country Office), with attention to the monitoring of the
flow of funds.
Somewhat contrasting with the swiftness of the project until the Board approval was the delay in
turning the credit into effectiveness. The project became effective in August 9, 2000, due to
mentioned delays in (i) the contract with the auditor, (ii) the formal agreement between the
borrower and the implementation agency, and (iii) the issuance of the legal opinion.
An additional delay, this time to effect disbursements, occurred in order to verify the
appropriateness of the procurement procedures underlying the imports of the petroleum products.
Once procurement procedures for oil imports were found to be satisfactory in September 27,
2000, disbursements followed quickly with 97 percent of the credit amount disbursed by the end
of the year. In October 20, 2000, in response to a request of Government, IDA decided to lift the
cap of 50 percent on disbursements against any single item on the positive list. The mentioned
delays did not prevent the project from achieving in essence its objectives, and one cause of delay,
the renegotiation of the audit contract, saved the GOM about US$ 45, 000.
Three PSRs reported briefly the main aspects of the life of the project, in a timely and accurate
manner.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory on the basis of the above ratings in lending
and in supervision.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government preparation was highly satisfactory. Government took seriously the dimension of
the disaster, and made efforts in creating conditions for providing the most relief possible, and for
preparing the way to reconstruction that would follow the initial emergency phase. It was in
agreement with the Bank with regard to the major aspects of the design of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. It entered into an Implementation
Agreement with the Banco de Mocambique whereby the latter was authorized to manage the
credit resources in carrying out the project, even if with some delay, as mentioned above.
Government appeared committed to its execution.
7 6 Implementing Agency:
As the implementation agency, Bank of Mozambique's performance is considered satisfactory.
Management of resources was effective and complied with the covenants namely regarding
procurement procedures. An audit report was supplied for the year 2000 transactions, in a timely
manner, but the last report, as already mentioned, due January 31, 2002, was provided to IDA
- 13-



with a delay of two months.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8. 1. The most important lessons learned in this emergency recovery project can be grouped in
three broad categories: (i) Speed of intervention; (ii) Catalytic role; and (iii) Process. Below we
identify the lessons in each of these categories.
A. Speed of Intervention
* Providing a speedy response is key, via (a) mobilizing a multisectoral team in loco at an
early stage, to produce the macroeconomic and sectoral damage and reconstruction
assessment, (b) design of the strategic objectives given the circumstances, in particular to
control anxiety, manage expectations, and set the framework for reconstruction, and (c)
preparing complementary interventions (eg. debt relief and portfolio restructuring ) to ensure
greater Bank responsiveness.
* It should be borne in mind that gains in timely response not be diminished because of less
flexible, more time-consuming, or less practical processes and procedures (see below 3.)
B. Catalytic role
The Bank can play an important catalytic role in (a) Knowledge for Action:
* Sharing the foundational and analytical documents, such as the damage assessment and
the macroeconomic evaluation with other concemed parties, donors and Governments. This
sharing contributes not only to a common understanding of the dimensions involved but also
maximizes the complementarities among the resource providers, permitting the Bank to
concentrate in the areas of its comparative advantage in the particular country.
* Enhancing capacities of the Government and locally based organizations to handle the
various aspects (organizational, human, financial) of emergencies in ways that reinforce best
systems, practices, and processes adapted to local circumstances - rather than intervening in
ways that may erode local ownership and leadership.
and in (b) Financing:
* Promoting partnerships in an open and transparent manner, including there United
Nations, other multilateral and bilateral donors.
* Helping to convene interested parties, coordinate and leverage external assistance from
the intemational community for reconstruction.
-14-



C. Process and Procedures
The Bank should structure projects and programs that enhance the above roles. Examples of
successful practice taken from this project, that contributed to the speedy response by the Bank
and better adjustment of the design, implementation and monitoring of the project to local
circumstances, are:
* Operational satellite link up, very important as it allowed speedy and effective
consultations.
*   Negotiations in the field, with all the Quality Control and Legal Staff support there,
pennitted process swiftness in the cycles of the emergency project.
*   Team leadership members - have one in the Country Office and one in Washington,
whenever possible, as in the present case, permitting quick access to appropriate information,
knowledge and coordination networks. While the adoption in this particular project to have
both as co-TTLs did not cause any less effectiveness, it may be advisable for clear
responsibility and accountability that one of them be the TTL and the other be the deputy (or
vice) TTL.
8.2. It is worth mentioning soiie areas where we found the Bank could do better:
*   Sustainability: there is a need to follow through on ensuring long term sustainability of
countries capabilities to face successfully natural disasters, including by closer monitoring of
the activities if agencies or donors taking the lead in this area. One way to do this through
periodic expert assessments of the systems in place. Sustainability oriented actions are better
served where capacity enhancing is undertaken properly.
* Appropriate Instruments:
(a) ERLs, which are supposed to be quick disbursing, continue to require that funds be
disbursed against a positive list of imports, even in cases where the countries have a track record
of pursuing economic reforms or have agreements on macroeconomic policies agreed with the
IMF that are on track. This requirement can be a source of delays and additional administrative
work and achieves nothing due to the fungibility of money. Therefore it needs to be revisited, to
make this aspect of the ERLs in line with the normal adjustment loan requirements. An attempt in
this regard was not successful, but the issue merits reconsideration (particularly in the context of
the current OPCS review of Bank procedures, as credit designers, implementing agencies and
supervisors end up finding circumventing procedures at the expense of time - a scarce commodity
in the emergency situations these ERLs are intended for - and other resources.
(b) It is advisable in large projects, such as in roads and infrastructure, as was the case
with one of the projects (ROCS II), to add a contingency component capable of providing
financing for crisis situations, to be disbursed under special procurement procedures.
- 15-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Bank of Mozambique, the implementing agency for the Government of Mozambique, in its
comments dated June 4, 2002, expressed its agreement with this Implementation Completion
Report. BOM concluded that, in overall terms, "(...) [its] content (...) is consistent with the
borrower's point of view," and notes that it is also consistent with the Auditor's opinion. The full
comments provided by the BOM appear included in the Annex 7.6.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
NA
- 16-



Text Footnotes
1/ One prominent bilateral donor had publicly estimated reconstruction needs to amount 3.0 billion USS in
Southem Africa, and about 1.3 billion US$ in Mozambique, raising concerns that the Mozambican economy could
severely contract.
2/ Also in the PARPA (The Plan of Action of Reduction of Absolute Poverty) 2001-2005. The latter was re-stated
in the version of April 2001 Council of Ministers approved PARPA, submitted as the first full Mozambique's
PRSP to the Boards of IMF and the Bank, and subsequently approved as a basis for country's assistance
3/ Compared to previous years, there was aplanned fiscal expansion in 2000- notice that the overall deficit after
grants had been reduced to 1.5 per cent by 1999 - related to an important increase in salaries, the recapitalization
of banks and an increase in social spending over and above HIPC-related interest savings (see PEMR in
Mozambique, World Bank, 2001).
4/ The link between macro indicators other than fiscal deficit after grants and BOP deficit and this operation is
more tenuous, which explain why they were not chosen as monitoring indicators. The 2.8 percentage points above
the re-estimated target in the average annual inflation in 2000 may be attributed to other factors, namely monetary
expansion in excess of the programmed path from late 1999 onwards - monetary expansion was at 42 per cent
rate for the year, against a program of 34 per cent. With respect to year 2001, the inflation path continued to be
benign until April, month in which both the accumulated rate since the end of 2000 and the 12-month rate was at a
negligible 0.5 per cent. However accumulated inflation started to increase rapidly since May, ending the year with
the average annual rate of 9.1 per cent. Factors that contributed to the increase in the price level include inter alia
the continued banking crisis in two major banks and related bailouts, and excessive monetary expansion of 31 per
cent, above the programmed increase of 19 per cent.
5/ The differences between FERP projections and actuals are explained mainly by the fact thai many
reconstruction activities were delayed to the year 2001.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
This project does not have performance indicators as such. MOP Technical Annex states that
instead "two monitoring indicators will be used for the implementation of the FERP in 2000 and
200 1". There is no mention of the quantitative values of these monitoring indicators in FERP.
Rather, the project documents contain post-flood projections in the context of the new
macroeconomic framework. In the table below we compare the post-floods projections of these
two indicators as estimated in the documents, and the actual values (or latest estimates):
Monitoring Indicators                 ActuaVLatest Estimates
IndicatorlMatrix  Projected in PSR  1999       2000              2001
Post-flood        Post-flood
Actual   Project.  Actual  Project.  Actual
Overall Fiscal Deficit   NA            -1.5       -7     -4.5     -5.1     -4.9
Overall BOP Deficit      NA           -17.5    -12.8    -12.7    -11.7    -10.5
Note: The outcomes were in general better than post-flood projections
-18-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appralsal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million   US$ million
Imports of Goods                                     29.70           28.53             96
Payments of Services                                  0.30            0.01              4
Total Baseline Cost                                  30.00           28.54
Total Project Costs             30.00           28.54
Total Financing Required              30.00          28.54
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category       ICB       Procurement Methode           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      29.70         0.00          0.00         0.00         29.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                   0.30          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      30.00         0.00          0.00          0.00         30.00
(0.00)        (0.00)                     (0.00)        (0.00)
I/ Figures outside parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs included contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 19 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category         ICB            NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         28.53          0.00           0.00           0.00          28.53
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      0.00           0.01           0.00           0.00           0.01
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         28.53           0.01          0.00           0.00          28.54
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
- 20-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
-21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfornance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identificatlon/lPreparation
March 13-March              25   2 co-TTLs, 2 Macroeconomists, I                  HS
26, 2000                         Disaster Mgmt. Specialist, I
Procurement Spec., 2 FMS, I
Procurement Spec., I Counsel, I
Research Analyst, 3 Transport.
Spec., I PSD, 3 Water &
Sanitation Spec., 3 HD Spec., 2
Agricult. Spec., I Investm.
Offic., 3 Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 28-March              10   2 co-TTLs, 2                                      s
29, 2000                         Macroeconomists, I Disaster
Mgmt. Specialist, I
Procurement Spec., 2 FMS, I
Procurement Spec., I
Counsel, I Research Analyst
Supervision
Nov/2000                     2   2 co-TrLs                           S             S
April! 2001                  2    1 TTL, I Macroeconomist            S             S
ICR
January 2002                      1 Macroeconomist                   S             S
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                            227
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                             15
ICR                                                                     10
Total                                                                 252
The amount of US$227,000 in the line "Identification/Preparation" includes also the
"Appraisal/Negotiation" estimated staff costs.
- 22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
3Macro policies                       O H  *SUOM O N      O NA
L) Sector Policies                    OH   OSUOM ON * NA
El Physical                           O H OSUO1   M ON    * NA
a Financial                           O H OSUOCM ON       * NA
3 Institutional Development           O H O SU *M O N 0 NA
EC Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
Ol PovertyReduction             OH OSUOM O N * NA
O Gender                       O H OSUOM ON * NA
Ol Other (Please specif)        OH   OSUOM     ON   * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N * NA
O Other (Please speci)                O H O SU O M O N * NA
-23-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly UnsatisfactoTy)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
O Lending                                        *OHS OS OLU OHU
O Supervision                                     OHS OS      OU    O HU
O Overall                                         OHS O S     O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
[ Preparation                                     *HS OS      O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance           O HS OS     O U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance               O HS OS     O U   0 HU
OI Overall                                        OHS OS      Ou    O HU
-24-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Please refer to the following Annex Tables and Documents, for details mentioned in the principal
text:
7.1 Table: Inflation and Exchange Rates, 2000-2001
7.2 Table: Selected Economic Indicators, 1999-2001
7.3 "Technical Annex for a proposed Credit of SDR 22.4 Million (US$ 30 Million equivalent)
to the Republic of Mozambique for a Flood Emergency Recovery Project",
April 7, 2000"
7.4 "Changes to IDA Portfolio in Mozambique as a Result of the Flood Emergency"
7.5 Table: "Evolution of the donor response to the Government's appeal for
the Reconstruction Program for 2000/2001, as of 04/30/05"
7.6 Government/Implementation Agency Comments
-25 -



Table 7.1 Inflation and Exchange Rate
(month-on-month, except when stated otherwise)
Months                    CPI Inflation         Exch. Rate MtWUSD Depreciation
2000             2001             2000             2001
January              -0.3            -0.9               1.8              2.5
February              7.6            -0.2              6.9*             3.8
March                 2.3              0.7              7.1*             2.4
April                 1.6              1.0              2.8*             5.2
May                   0.8              2.4              0.7              5.0
June                -1.3               2.1              0.2              6.4
July                  0.7              2.4              0.8              0.7
August              -1.2              1.7               0.5              1.4
September             0.7              1.0             -0.8              0.4
October               0.2              3.8              1.1              1.5
November             -1.2             3.4               2.5              1.1
December             1.3              2.8               2.5              0.9
Year Average        12.3              9.1              23.6             31.9
Sources: INE, Instituto Nacional de Estatistica, Mocambique, IMF and World Bank.
* Denotes exchange rate impact from the floods, which had largely subsided after approval of the FERP credit in
April.
-26-



Table 7. 2. Selected Economic Indicators, 1999-2001
Indicators,  annual  (as 1999            2000                    2001
percent of GDP unless Actual    Pre-fl.  Projec.  Actual  Pre-fl.  Projec.  Estim.*
specified otherwise)            Projec.  Post-fl        Proiec.  Post-fl
Real GDP (growth rate)     7.5     7.0     5.4     1.6     7.2      7.9     13.9
Inflation  (average  per   2.9     6.6     9.5    12.7     5.0      5.0      9.0
cent)
External Accounts                                     _   _____
Overall BOP              -5.8    -4.4   -12.8    -9.5    -9.6   -11.7    -11.7
C.A. after grants       -17.5   -16.3   -19.7   -12.7    -9.1   -11.0    -10.5
Fiscal Balance:         _
Before grants           -13.2   -12.1   -16.0   -16.1   -10.7   -11.5    -17.8
After grants             -1.5    -5.2    -7.0    -4.5    -4.4    -5.1     -4.9
Memo:GDP(Mt.billions    51,915  59,215   59,916  58,905  66,653  67,883   74,6751
Source: World Bank, IMF and Government of Mozambique. *Recent estimates.
-27-






Annex 7.3
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. T-7370-MOZ
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 22.4 MILLION
(US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
April 7, 2000
pThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization
-28-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Meticais 14,500
April 6, 2000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANE                  National Road Administration
BoM                  Bank of Mozambique
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CFM                  Caminhos de Ferro de Mocambique
EDM                  Electricidade de Mocambique
EMRO                 Economic Management and Recovery Operation
FERP                 Flood Emergency Recovery Project
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                 Highly-Indebted Poor Country
IDA                  International Development Association
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
INE                  National Institute of Statistics
INGC                 Instituto Nacional de Gestao de Calamidades
MADR                 Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MAE                  Ministry of State Administration
MINED                Ministry of Education
MOH                  Ministry of Health
MOPH                 Ministry of Public Housing
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                  Net Present Value
OCHA                 Office of the Coordinator of Humanitarian Affairs
PRGF                 Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP                 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SADC                 Southern Africa Development Community
SARCOF               Southern Africa Regional Climate Outlook Forum
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights
SOE                  Statement of Expenditure
UEM                  Universidade Eduardo Mondlane
UN                   United Nations
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
VAT                  Value Added Tax
- 29-



MOZAMBIQUE
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY OPERATION
Table of Contents
A. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY                                                              30
Background                                                                            30
The Floods                                                                            30
Preliminary Damage Assessment                                                         31
Overall Economic Impact                                                               34
Relief Efforts                                                                        37
Government Response                                                                   37
B. STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                     39
Short-Term Recovery                                                                   40
Vulnerability Reduction                                                               40
C. IDA'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY                                                          43
The Elements of IDA's Response                                                        43
Internal Administrative Measures                                                      44
Lessons Learned                                                                       44
Rationale for IDA Involvement                                                         45
D. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                         45
Project Objectives                                                                    45
Project Description                                                                   45
Project Cost and Financing.                                                           46
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                46
Project Organization and Management                                                   46
Procurement                                                                           46
Disbursements                                                                         47
Financial Management and Monitoring                                                   48
Retroactive Financing                                                                 48
Special Account                                                                       48
Project Sustainability                                                                48
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                    49
Project Benefits                                                                      49
Project Risks                                                                         49
ATTACHMENT 1                                                                             50
Positive List of Imports                                                              50
ATTACHMENT 2                                                                             51
A. Summary of Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                51
B. Summary of Disbursement Arrangements                                               52
ATTACHMENT 3                                                                             53
Monitoring Indicators                                                                 53
- 30 -






TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED IDA CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT (FERP)
A. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
Background
1.     Mozambique has made tremendous strides in the past few years. A sound economic reform
program has been implemented, with substantial support from external partners. The transition from war
to peace and from a central planning system to a market economy is reaping results. Mozambique's
growth rate has accelerated and last year was among the highest in the world. Heavily reliant on food aid
just a decade ago, the country now produces almost enough food to feed itself. Mozambique ranks first in
20 countries on an "optimism index" in a survey of business people active in Africa. But there are
daunting challenges which face the nation, its people, and its partners. Mozambique is still one of the
poorest countries in the world. Poverty, isolation, illiteracy, and disease characterize the everyday life of
most Mozambicans, who often feel that the benefits of growth are not reaching them. Mozambique's
growth and poverty reduction strategy is based on environmentally sustainable and inclusive private sector
growth. Per capita income in Mozambique, at US$230 in 1998, is below the average for sub-Saharan
Africa (US$480) and the low income group (US$520). The Human Development Index, an index of
income, education and life expectancy, ranks Mozambique 169th out of 174 countries. Key social
indicators for Mozambique continue to be below the averages of Sub-Saharan Africa and those of
low-income countries as a whole.
2.     Mozambique is very exposed to natural hazards. From 1965 to 1998, twelve floods, nine
droughts, and four typhoon landfalls have occurred in various parts of this long coastal country. Unusually
heavy floods in 1971 and 1977 were comparable to those this year, resulting in 300 to 500 deaths and
affecting half a million people each. Droughts have been even more devastating, by several orders of
magnitude. Drought and famine in 1980, 1983, 1985 and 1992, exacerbated by ongoing warfare and
political-economic instability, resulted in 100,000 deaths and affected over 17 million people. This
combination of hazard exposure and historical vulnerability has created a situation in which, from 1965 to
1998, the annual average death toll due to droughts, floods, typhoons and epidemics was 3,300 people,
with an annual average total of nearly one million people affected.
The Floods
3.     From February 4 to 7, 2000, due to the effects of cyclone Connie, Maputo city received 455 mm of
rainfall, or nearly half the average annual total. Similar exceptionally heavy rains across southern
Mozambique exacerbated normal seasonal flooding, inundating low-lying areas. From February 20 to 22,
heavy rainfall associated with cyclone Eline boosted rainfall totals in neighboring South Africa, Zimbabwe
and Swaziland, filling reservoirs on river basins draining through southern Mozambique and triggering
more extensive flooding, particularly along the Limpopo, Incomati and Umbeluzi rivers. It was the first
time in recorded memory that all three river systems flooded at the same time in Mozambique. Although
flooding has receded from peak levels recorded in early March, continuing rainfall together with releases
-31 -



from dams upstream have kept river levels high, perpetuating flood risks and slowing the drainage of river
basins back to normal seasonal conditions. In early March, heavy rainfall affected the Save, Buzi and
Pungoe river basins causing additional flooding in these areas further to the north. As of March 27, river
levels were still high and rainfall pattems had not returned to their normal states, with the consequence that
ecological systems continued to be in perilous condition and renewed flooding remained a distinct
possibility.
4.     The provinces currently most affected are Maputo, Gaza, Inhambane, Sofala and Manica. The
total population in the five affected provinces is about five million. The flooded area constitutes about 11
to 12 percent of cultivated land in the affected provinces. According to the Instituto Nacional de Gestao
de Calamidades (INGC), as of March 23, 640 people have lost their lives and about two million people, or
12 percent of the national population, are experiencing severe economic difficulties due to the flooding,
including 491,000 people who are either displaced or trapped in flood-isolated areas. As the waters recede,
high levels of standing and contaminated water have exposed many of these people to heightened risk of
diarrheal disease, cholera and malaria. About 70 percent of these people were very poor even before the
disaster, living on less than US$0.40 per day. As a result of the floods, many have lost all of their capital
assets-including their homes, their crops, and their livestock-and require basic life-supporting services
to survive this difficult time. Opportunities for on- and off-farm work in their home areas have also been
foreclosed, at least until the rains end and the flood waters recede. Small traders and entrepreneurs in the
affected areas have been hit especially hard, as many have suffered heavy losses of inventory with minimal
or no insurance coverage. As a result, there is likely to be an increase in poverty in the affected region
(offset to some degree by growth associated with the reconstruction effort) until activity in agriculture,
trade and industry are restored to former levels.
5.     The flooding devastated the affected areas and caused considerable loss of life and property. Break
points in the transportation system, resulting from destroyed roads, bridges and railways, separated people
in the affected areas from food, water, and essential services. More permanent structures such as schools,
clinics, and municipal buildings have also sustained damage or been emptied of their contents. In addition,
electrical and telecommunications grids have been ripped asunder, and water systems and sanitation
systems have been rendered inoperable through siltation.
Preliminary Damage Assessment
6.     From March 12 to 24, 2000, a World Bank team traveled to Mozambique to assess the flood and
cyclone damage sustained in the country following heavy rains in February and March. This assessment
was prepared in close consultation with the Govermment, the Core Group of Mozambique's external
partners (convened by the Govemment of Mozambique to assist in the response to the emergency), and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF). The team's report, entitled, "A Preliminary Assessment of Damage
from the Flood and Cyclone Emergency of February-March 2000" (the "Damage Assessment"), was
published on March 27, 2000. In preparing this assessment, the team attempted to determine the direct
costs, indirect costs, and reconstruction costs to date of the recent flood and cyclone disaster. The cost of
emergency relief activities was also estimated. In Table I (next page), and in this document generally:
*      Direct costs refer to physical damage to capital assets and inventories, valued at same-standard
replacement costs.
*      Indirect costs refer to flow effects such as output losses and foregone earnings.
*      Relief costs refer to (i) the provision of life-supporting services (e.g. food aid, health care, safe
water and sanitation) to populations whose access to these services has been lost as a result of the disaster
- 32 -



and (ii) assistance to these populations to enable them to resume sustainable livelihoods.
*      Reconstruction costs refer to costs for rebuilding damaged infrastructure to standards optimally
designed to reduce vulnerability and risk of loss through future disaster, taking into account Mozambique's
resources, policy framework, and level of development
7.     Preliminary Bank staff estimates of the disaster's direct costs total US$273 million, or about six
percent of projected GDP for 2000. Indirect costs are estimated at US$212 rnillion and reconstruction
costs are estimated at US$428 mnillion. Direct costs to the public sector total about US$135 million (in
health, education, governnent property, water and sanitation, energy, roads, railways, and agricultural
infrastructure) and indirect costs total about US$10 million to US$11 million (chiefly in the power and
railway sectors). Direct costs to the private sector total about US$130 million (in housing and private
property, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, industry, trade and tourism) and indirect costs about US$190
million, including the indirect costs of damage to the roads network.
,,gP#>F'I _ ',t,' Table                         a ifDIsster-Relited Cob  :
Direct    Indirect   Relief    Reconstruction
Food aid                            -          _        35.5           -
Health                             15.7        *        5.2           25.8
Education                          18.7        *        0.5           37.3
Housing and private property       29.1        _         -           43.6
Government property                5.2         *        6.0           10.2
Sub-total: Social Sectors         68.7        *        47.2         116.9
Water and sanitation               13.4                 6.6           13.4
Energy and telecommunication       13.6       7.4        -            15.5
Roads                              47.0      30.0       11.0          87.2
Railways                           7.3       10.7        -           49.2
Sub-total: Infrastructure         81.3      48.1       17.6         165.3
Agriculture**                      57.9      63.0        -            57.9
Livestock                          7.9        0.8        -            7.9
Fisheries                          8.5        6.1        -            8.5
Industry**                         25.7      68.0        -            30.8
Trade                              15.7      15.0        -            15.7
Tourism                            2.0       10.5        -            2.5
Sub-total: Productive Sectors    117.7      163.4       -           123.3
Sub-total: Environment            2.0        -          -            2.8
Sub-total: Disaster Prevention    3.4        -          -            19.4
Grand Total                      273.1      211.5      64.8         427.7
Source: The World Bank. Notes: * Less than US$500,000. ** Lost sugar cane production is included in
agriculture; lost refined sugar production is included in industry. See text for definition of column headings.
8.    In reading Table 1, several items are worth notice. First, the totals in each column combine public
sector and private sector losses. Second, estimated costs to the public sector are generally more reliable
-33 -



than estimated costs to the private sector, which contains multiple actors who compete with one another
and have limited obligations of public disclosure, making financial information difficult to collect and
interpret. Third, relief costs are limited to costs associated with providing basic services; they attempt
strictly to exclude rehabilitation or reconstruction costs; and they do not attempt to capture extraordinary
relief costs (e.g. for family reunification, food aid distribution, and emergency (air-bome) rescue
operations) that would significantly add to the total. Fourth, estimates of reconstruction costs are highly
preliminary, as specialists have only just begun to reassess the exposure of the affected assets to
catastrophic losses and the economic impacts of these losses or to identify and cost-out effective strategies
for vulnerability reduction. Further details of the damage sustained as a result of the flood and cyclone
disaster follow (see also the Damage Assessment):
*      The human cost: As of March 23, 640 people have lost their lives due to the flooding and about
two million people are experiencing severe economic difficulties, including 491,000 people who are either
displaced into camps (with almost 100 camps in total) or trapped in flood-isolated areas.
*      Agriculture: About 140,000 hectares of cultivated land, or 12 percent of total cultivated land in
the affected provinces, was inundated. This land was mainly planted with maize and rice by poor faming
families who experienced a total loss of the planted crop. Livestock losses include an estimated 20,000
cattle, 4,000 goats, sheep and pigs, and 180,000 chickens. Total losses in the agriculture and livestock
sectors, including commercial agriculture, are estimated at about US$65.8 million.
*      Health: Out of 356 health facilities in the affected provinces, 52 were significantly damaged by the
floods, including two urban and four rural hospitals. Together with losses in drugs, medical equipment,
furniture and other supplies, total losses in the health sector are estimated at about US$15.7 million.
*      Education: The disaster damaged or destroyed about 500 primary schools (i.e. one in four schools
in the affected provinces) as well as seven secondary schools, two technical colleges and the Universidade
Eduardo Mondlane (UEM). About 208,000 primary school students have been officially out of school
since March 3, though efforts are being made to reintegrate them into the school system in their current
locations so that they can rejoin the ordinary promotion in September. Total damages in the sector are
estimated to be about US$18.7 million.
*      Housing: It is estimated that flooding forced at least 50,000 families, or some 250,000 people, to
abandon their homes and their possessions. The vast majority of these people are extremely poor, and lived
in rural areas or in informal settlements around the major towns. Their homes were typically constructed
of local materials, and were essentially destroyed or washed away completely, along with most of their
possessions. Middle- and higher-income groups, who lived in more permanent structures, also suffered
sizeable losses, primarily of personal effects. Taken together, losses among both groups are estimated to
exceed US$29 million.
*      Water: Total damages to water supply, sanitation, and drainage systems in the affected areas are
estimated to be about US$13.4 million. This includes moderate damage to urban water supply and
sanitation systems in Chokwe and Xai Xai, and relatively severe damage to sanitation and drainage systems
in Maputo and Matola.
*      Energy and telecommunications: Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM) suffered about US$12
million in direct damage to its networks, including more than US$3.5 million to each of the rural networks
of Gaza and Maputo provinces. Revenue losses to EDM and to privately-owned Hidroelectrica Cahora
-34 -



Bassa (HCB), which lost its 533kV line into South Africa, will amount to about US$3.7 million per month
until repairs are completed. Damages to telecommunications infrastructure were mostly concentrated in
Xai Xai (some 2,500 lines), with resulting revenue losses more than offset by increased intemational
telecommunications traffic as a result of the emergency.
*      Transport: Large sections of road (including the ENI trunk road linking Maputo to the north as
well as municipal roads in Maputo, Matola, Chokwe and lower Xai Xai) were extensively damaged or
destroyed. In addition, large sections of the railbed of the Limpopo railway line, connecting Zimbabwe to
the port of Maputo, were washed away. Total direct damages to roads and railways are estimated to be
about US$54.3 million. Reconstruction to design profiles able to provide greater resistance to flood
damage would cost an estimated US$135 million.
*      Trade, Industry and Tourism: Total losses to the private sector are estimated to reach about
US$50 million in direct costs and almost US$100 million in indirect costs. The new Maragra sugar
plantation, which was just about to enter production, lost it entire crop, resulting in an estimated production
loss of US$18 million over two years (at world prices). Large drinks enterprises like Coca-Cola and
Cervejas 2M lost as much as US$10 million due to transport bottlenecks. Direct damages and lost
production in the fisheries industry are estimated to total about US$15 million and in the tourism industry
about US$12 million. In addition, small traders in the affected areas are believed to have lost inventory,
either directly to flood damage or indirectly to the theft which followed, valued at about US$ 10 million.
*      Environment: It has not been possible, at this early stage, to estimate the environmental costs of
the disaster, but the location and removal of landmines that have migrated as a result of the flooding is
estimated to cost about US$2 million.
*      Disaster prevention and preparedness: Meteorological and hydrological observing systems
essential for monitoring and forecasting hydro-meteorological hazards in Mozambique were lost during the
floods and will need to be replaced. In addition, existing flood protection embankments now require
emergency repairs. This is estimated to cost about US$3.4 million.
Overall Economic Impact
9.     Macroeconomic framework prior to the flood and cyclone disaster: Mozambique's economic
performance before the flood and cyclone disaster was strong, marked by rapid growth, low inflation and
growing private investment. Economic growth was expected to reach 7 percent in 2000, continuing a trend
of rapid expansion led by small holder agriculture in which GDP growth averaged 5.5 percent annually
between 1987 and 1996 and 10.8 percent between 1997 and 1999. As a result, real GNP per capita
increased by 9.3 percent in 1998 and 6.9 percent in 1999, and was expected to grow 5.1 percent annually
over the period 2000 to 2004. Inflation dropped sharply from almost 50 percent in 1996 to 2 percent on
average in 1999, and was expected to remain below 7 percent in 2000 (see Table 2 below). Underpinning
this high-growth and low-inflation environment were prudent fiscal and monetary policies, accompanied by
substantial extemal aid and a sound program of structural reform (based on privatization, financial sector
reform and trade liberalization). The current account deficit before grants grew in 1999 as a result of high
import demand linked to large investment projects, but it was expected to improve in 2000 and 2001 as
large industrial projects such as the Mozal aluminun smelter become net exporters.
10.    Mozambique reached the completion point under the HIPC Initiative in June 1999 and received
debt relief amounting to about US$3.7 billion (US$ 1.7 billion in NPV terms), of which US$975 million
- 35 -



(US$381 million in NPV terms) was granted by IDA. Mozambique reached the decision point under the
Enhanced HPC Framework in April 2000 and is expected to reach the completion point in early 2001.
Thereafter the NPV of debt-to-export ratio for Mozambique will be 150 and the debt service-to-export ratio
will be about 5 percent on average over the next ten years, improving Mozambique's external viability and
sustainability. Interim debt relief already planned before the flood and cyclone disaster allowed for an
increase of expenditures of about I percent of GDP compared to the initial fiscal program. These additional
expenditures are being directed to poverty reduction programs outline in the Government's Interim PRSP
and Poverty Action Plan.
11.   In support of the economic reforrn program, Mozambique benefited from an IDA-financed
structural adjustmnent credit, the Economic Management and Reform Operation (EMRO). This operation,
which amounted to US$ 150 million and was fully disbursed in 1999, was part of the interim debt relief
granted to Mozambique in the context of the HIPC Initiative and it took the form of a grant. Additional
program support is planned for 2001 under the new Country Assistance Strategy. A first review under the
IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) Arrangement took place in February 2000, before
the emergency. Despite some concerns about a weakening of performance on structural reforms, the
second installment under the program was approved by the IMF Board on March 27, 2000.
1I able 2  lecid IE8CnonMmc imdlcnmi1n  XB0-2001
(percent of GDP unless otherwise specified)
Actual                  Projection
Pre-Floods       Post-Floods
1998    1999    2000     2001     2000    2001
Real GDP ( annual growth rate)  12.0    9.0     7.0      7.2     5.4      7.9
Inflation (annual average %)   0.6      2.0     6.6      5.0     9.5      5.0
Extemal current account:              ___
Before grants              -20.5    -31.7   -23.0    -15.7   -31.5    -18.4
After grants               -12.4    -21.5   -16.3    -9.1    -19.7    -11.0
Fiscal balance:
Before grants              -10.7    -12.1   -12.1   -10.7    -16.0    -11.5
After grants                -2.4    -1.2    -5.2     -4.4     -7.0    -5.1
Memorandum item:
GDP (Mt billions)          46,134  52,913  60,177   67,790   61,471  69,673
Source: World Bank, IMF and Government of Mozambique estimates.
12.    Economic impact of theflood and cyclone disaster: The flood and cyclone disaster constituted a
large exogenous shock to Mozambique's economy. The potentially large fiscal and monetary effects of this
shock are being contained by the authorities' commitment to macroeconomic discipline as well as the
generous response of Mozambique's external partners.
13.    According to the preliminary damage assessment prepared by World Bank staff, the total direct
costs of the disaster amount to about US$273 million, which represents about 6 percent of Mozambique's
GDP. As a result of crop losses, capital losses, and damage to public and private infrastructure resulting
from the disaster, it is estimated that economic growth in 2000 will slow down to 5.4 percent, compared to
7.0 percent projected before the disaster. In 2001, GDP growth is expected to accelerate to 7.9 percent,
- 36 -



boosted by reconstruction activities and the re-building of productive assets. Since the beginning of
February 2000, transport bottlenecks combined with lower supply of goods have put pressure on prices.
According to the National Institute of Statistics (INE), the February consumer price index increased by 7.6
percent compared to January, the highest monthly increase in two years. It is expected that inflation will
increase to 9.5 percent in 2000 and return to its projected pre-disaster path in 2001 as constraints to supply
are relieved and imports enter the country. In this context, the authorities agree that maintaining strict
monetary discipline will be important to avoiding a resurgence of inflationary expectations and an erosion
of external competitiveness.
14.    The external current account deficit before grants is projected to deteriorate by US$325 million in
2000 (about 8.5 percent of GDP) and by US$58 million in 2001 (about 2.7 percent of GDP), as a direct
result of the floods. The main impact will be felt on the trade balance due to an increase of
imports-particularly of construction materials, equipment and capital goods-of about US$277 mnillion in
2000 and US$58 million in 2001. The impact on exports is likely to be limited as production for the export
market, other than sugar, is relatively low in the affected areas. The services account is expected to
deteriorate as a result of a reduction of tourism and transport freight revenues of about US$23 million in
2000. Despite sizeable expected inflows of extemal assistance, the current account after grants is still
projected to deteriorate by 4 percent of GDP in 2000 and 1.9 percent in 2001 (see Attachment 4). The
estimated total effect on the balance of payments shows a financing gap of US$206 million in 2000 and
US$49 million in 2001. This extemal gap will be reduced by accelerated debt relief from IDA and the IMF
under the enhanced HIPC framework as well as the deferral of debt service granted by the Paris Club. The
remaining external gap is expected to be financed by additional donor grants, reprogramming of existing
IDA credits, additional financing under the IF PRGF program, and this proposed IDA Flood Emergency
Recovery Project. The International Donor Conference to be held in Rome, Italy, in May will serve to
confirm pledges made to date and secure any additional assistance required fully to meet Mozambique's
external financing needs.
15.    On the fiscal side, the restoration of public infrastructure and services in the affected areas will
have a sizable impact on the budget, both on revenue and expenditures (see Attachment 5). Based on
current projections, the overall fiscal deficit before grants will widen to 16 percent of GDP in 2000
(compared to the initial projection of 12.1 percent) and to 11.5 percent of GDP in 2001 (compared to 10.7
percent). Provided that all pledges of additional external assistance made in response to the disaster
materialize, and there is no reallocation of assistance from the regular to the emergency budget, it is
expected that most of the increased fiscal deficit will be funded by this additional assistance. Taking
pledged additional assistance into account, current projections show a residual financing gap of about
US$33 million in 2000 and about US$9 million in 2001. The counterpart funds generated by the balance
of payments assistance under the Flood Emergency Recovery Project will contribute to financing the budget
and thus to closing the fiscal gap. On the expenditure side, it is projected that additional public spending,
mainly on capital items, will total about US$215 milUion in 2000 and US$85 million in 2001. Lower
revenue from VAT and taxes on income and profits will be more than offset by increased revenue from
irnport duties and taxes on goods and services for reconstruction as well as an increase of customs duty
collections on the additional large imports of sugar at the current level of surcharges.
16.   In an effort to fight inflationary pressures, the authorities intend to maintain domestic financing of
the budget at the level projected before the floods, liniking the financing of additional expenditures to the
availability of extemal aid. Adjustments to the macroeconomic framework necessary to accommodate the
fiscal and monetary effects of the floods will be made in agreement with the IMF.
17.    The authorities are currently exploring policy options for supporting the most vulnerable people
- 37 -



among the populations affected by the disaster. In addition, alternative schemes for assisting private small
businesses adversely affected by the floods are also being considered (with particular attention being
focused on the needs of these businesses for affordable credit). Whatever alternatives are ultimately
selected, it is expected that the authorities will avoid interfering with market mechanisms to the extent
possible, and will institute mechanisms that help to ensure an accountable, transparent, and fair
administration of these schemes. In addition, any scheme providing credit to the private sector will be
carefully evaluated with respect to its effects on macroeconomic stability. The Government is likely to
present and discuss these issues with external partners during the International Donor Conference being
convened in Rome, Italy, on May 3-4, 2000.
Relief Efforts
18.    When flooding first occurred in Maputo province in early February, the situation, though
worrisome, appeared to be manageable. Only later, when dam releases and heavy rainfall in the Limpopo
catchment area caused that river to send a wall of water through Chokwe and lower Xai Xai in the middle
of the night, did the situation become an emergency. News from Chokwe and Xai Xai was slow to reach
the broader intemational community, but as media images of the flooding were broadcast, a substantial
response was initiated by the intemational community, including the United Nations, major international
donors, local and intemational NGOs, and-significantly-Mozambique's immediate neighbors. In the
period of acute crisis, helicopters, largely provided by South Africa and Malawi, rescued over 11,000
people stranded on trees, roofs, and small patches of high ground, and transported them to safer areas. The
floods displaced around 245,000 people, who have been left destitute, having lost their dwellings and all
their possessions. Approximately 100 accommodation centers were established to assist people requiring
life supporting services during this time of acute need.
19.    The flood emergency has created extraordinary demands for coordination of assessments and relief
and recovery operations and resourcing. Under the circumstances, the Government has been visible and
effective in organizing institutional coordination, with considerable support from donors, the United
Nations system, and a large number of local and international NGOs. Together, these organizations have
distributed food, clothing, medical supplies, water purification equipment, shelter and school materials,
through the accommodation centers, to those in most need.
Government Response
20.    Responsibility for inter-ministerial and intemational emergency coordination falls under the INGC.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation has taken direct responsibility for this coordination effort,
which involves inter-ministerial coordination within the Government both sectorally and at the level of the
affected provinces and districts. This effort has been supported by a parallel UN inter-agency,
inter-sectoral coordination structure chaired by the Office of the Coordinator for Humanitarian Affairs
(OCHA) and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Both arrangements were supported by
Mozambique's major development partners. The monitoring and coordinating of NGO activities has been
reasonably successful, given the enormous influx of organizations, persons, and resources in a brief period
of time.
21.    In responding to the emergency, sectoral ministries presented detailed reports on damages, needs
and relief activities, as well as on meteorological and hydrological conditions in daily briefings. Additional
coordination meetings were held at the sectoral level on food, agriculture, water and sanitation, health,
shelter and information, generally on a daily basis. UN agencies met three times per week to coordinate UN
- 38 -



agency sectoral activities. UN and donor support was particularly crucial in the assessment of damages
and needs and the issuance of assessments and appeals to identify and channel resources for both the relief
and recovery phases. Joint Government-UN appeals were issued on February 24 and on March 22,
itemizing relief and rehabilitation requirements by sector. The International Donor Conference being
convened in Rome, Italy, in May will mobilize further external resources required for Mozambique's
sustainable recovery and vulnerability reduction, and the Bank's preliminary damage assessment will serve
as an input into the Government's preparation of its appeal for that Conference. In addition, the Southem
Africa Development Community (SADC) held a Heads of State Summit in Maputo on March 14-15, 2000,
in response to the flood emergency in Mozambique. At this meeting, it was decided to reopen a five-year
old discussion to create a regional institution to handle international calamities at the next Summit, to be
held in August 2000 in Windhoek, Namibia. Efforts are also being made to strengthen the Southem Africa
Regional Climate Outlook Forurn, which monitors hydro-meteorological conditions in southem Africa and
is able to provide early warning of possibly significant climatic variation.
22.    Medium- and long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction fall outside the INGC mandate, and are
being coordinated sectorally, using pre-existing institutional arrangements to the extent possible. Within
the social sectors, the Ministry of Health (MOH) is working with donors, NGOs and UN agencies to
provide emergency and routine care in the areas of health, nutrition, and water and sanitation in
accommodations centers and elsewhere in the affected areas, until facilities are rebuilt or otherwise
restored. As part of this effort, it has been registering incoming foreign NGOs and guiding them towards
the most needy locations as well as holding regular coordination meetings. The Ministry of Education
(MINED) is working to ensure that primary and secondary education is returned to normal conditions as
soon as possible and that affected school children complete the current school year and graduate in time to
join the ordinary promotion next September. It is currently coordinating incoming external support;
assessing the affected areas and preparing detailed plans for relief and reconstruction; obtaining tents,
textbooks and learning materials for temporary schools; and providing pedagogical and psychological
support to teachers and pupils to address the psychological impact of the flood disaster. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MADR) is working in the short term to recover agricultural
production through the timely distribution of basic agricultural inputs (Ag-Packs) using agencies that have
a pre-flood presence in the area as well as recognizable experience in agricultural input procurement.
23.    A long-term MADR strategy, which the Ministry of Public Housing (MOPH) and MICOA have
also considered, involves encouraging people who live on the flood plains to pursue less risky livelihoods
than cattle ranching and crop farming in an area that cycles between flood and drought. MOPH is
considering providing land and basic building materials (e.g. blocks and roofing materials, possibly for
purchase using subsidized credit) and moving essential services (clinics, schools, water and sanitation) to
higher ground to encourage people to relocate to safer areas, but because no person will be forced to
relocate unwillingly, the success of such a program is hard to predict. It will be important, in this context,
to review earlier attempts to relocate these populations after the 1977 flood and to consider issues of land
use in the area, which includes (inter alia) 90 percent of Mozambique's irrigated farmland as well as fertile
peat soil deposits. The rich potential of this irrigated agricultural land is likely to remain very attractive to
most poor farmers who previously lived there, particularly as the area is also prone to drought. The
Ministry of State Administration (MAE) has also considered moving Government offices to higher ground,
but costs could prove prohibitive, and it is more likely to rehabilitate and refurbish damaged buildings
where they cunrently are.
24.    The repair and reconstruction of infrastructure has also received Government attention. The
National Water Administration (DNA) has created an Emergency Commission to manage, coordinate, and
implement its response to water supply and sanitation needs, with the assistance of appropriately contracted
- 39 -



technical assistance. Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM) has already initiated immediate actions to
restore electrical power to priority customers (hospitals, schools, water supply facilities, communication
facilities, and industries) and customers that can be reconnected with minimal effort. Other repairs are
being made provisionally, pending more pernanent repairs involving the replacement of compromised
assets or restoration to their previous state. While the current plan envisions rebuilding assets as they were
and where they were, EDM (with donor assistance) will also consider upgrading and/or relocating assets
where this can be done efficiently, but it will take some months, and input from consultants, to incorporate
risk reduction into permanent repair plans. In roads, the National Road Administration (ANE) will
postpone less urgent work planned for 2000 to undertake immediate repairs to trunk roads as well as
high-priority tertiary roads (e.g. those providing access to large populations, accommodation centers, and
critical services). In the emergency repair phase (expected to last one to two months), ANE will complete
minimal work required to ensure the secure passage of vehicles. On trunk roads, this will include grading,
rebuilding road-bearing dykes, and constructing temporary bridges over newly (re)opened river channels on
the Limpopo flood plain. Less important secondary and tertiary roads will be repaired in two to four
months. For the remainder of 2000 and 2001, rehabilitation will aim to return damaged roads to
appropriate design profiles, with reinstalled drainage. Although it is unlikely that wholescale resiting of
trunk roads on the flood plains will be economically efficient, as any road across the flood plain involves
hazard exposure of similar order of magnitude, reconstruction to an improved standard on original sitings is
likely to be desirable. In railways, Caminhos de Ferro de Moqambique (CFM) has already started work
on restoring traffic to the Goba and Ressano Garcia lines, and it aims within four to six months to complete
emergency repairs to the Limpopo line to pernit the resumption of limited and low-speed train traffic
between the port of Maputo and Zimbabwe. Full rehabilitation of the Limpopo line will occur later, with
works dependent on site visits, risk assessments, and engineering and design studies, as well as resolution
of outstanding issues regarding the planned concession of the line to a private operator.
25.    During the emergency period, the Govemment and the international community have focused on
minimizing the results of the disaster and ensuring that sufficient food, water, essential drugs, and shelter
are available to persons displaced by the floods. Only in the last few weeks, as this process has been
brought under control, has the Government started to consider what the private sector needs to realize its
economic recovery. This is a complex matter, not least because differing segments of the private sector
have been differently affected by the floods. First and foremost, there are thousands of subsistence farmers
who will require life-supporting services at least until the next harvest, as well as assistance in resuming
their ordinary lives. Second, there are various traders, ranging from electronics dealers in downtown Xai
Xai to small shopkeepers operating in isolated villages, who have lost significant quantities of inventory,
most without having insurance. Finally, there are the large businesses, including multinationals such as
Coca-Cola, which have lost considerable assets in monetary terms, but which also have insurance coverage
that will enable them to recover from the disaster with minimal financial losses. The process of
determining what the rural farmner and small goods trader require to resume economic activity, and how this
requirement can best be satisfied, is just beginning, with the Government meeting with the private sector
and the international community, including donors and NGOs, to develop a strategy. Discussion of these
issues is still highly preliminary, and it has included the possibility of establishing some kind of fund
providing small-scale businesses with matching grants.
B. STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Short-Term Recovery
-40 -



26.    Short-term recovery efforts will depend on rapid but also comprehensive on-site assessments of
damage resulting from the flood and cyclone emergency. Most sectoral institutions within the Government
of Mozambique have already planned and initiated this work. To improve data quality in the agriculture
sector, MADR has planned to complete, by mid April, both a regular annual crop assessment (with WFP
and FAO) and an assessment of the flood's impact on agricultural non-crop production. In parallel, the
National Directorate of Livestock and Forestry will assess flood impacts on these subsectors. Using an
IDA credit, MOH has already launched a tender for technical assistance to provide a more precise
assessment of damage to affected health facilities as well as detailed designs for rehabilitation and
reconstruction, taking into account measures for disaster prevention and mitigation. In education, MINED
has contracted a Mozambican company to carry out detailed assessments in the districts where flood waters
have receded. UNESCO has agreed to provide an architect, and guidelines and plans for site assessment,
procurement and construction already exist. In addition, the Ministry will carry out its regular April school
survey of enrollment and dropout rates and prepare revised reconstruction cost estimates once the flood
waters have receded. Detailed information about water supply and sanitation facilities has already been
collected for Chokwe and Xai Xai by Africon, a South African consultancy firm, and further information,
for Maputo and Matola, is being collected by engineers from the Universidade Eduardo Mondlane. Fairly
good information already exists about damages in large-scale infrastructure (roads, bridges, railways, and
electrical installations), but this is constantly being improved as construction engineers visit sites and plan
or initiate repairs. The largest information gap that still exists concerns damages to public buildings,
private housing, and commercial and industrial property. Obtaining robust numbers, particularly for losses
suffered by subsistence farmers and small-scale traders, will be critical to designing interventions aiming to
promote their economic recovery.
Vulnerability Reduction
27.    Damage and losses sustained during the current floods expose the vulnerability of people, services,
and infrastructure to flood events of similar or greater magnitude. Meteorological and hydrological
observing systems essential for monitoring and forecasting hydro-meteorological hazards were lost during
the floods and will need to be replaced. In addition, existing flood protection embanlknents now require
emergency repairs (see Table 3 for cost estimates).
28.    In light of Mozambique's geography and disaster history, future floods, typhoons and droughts are
inevitable. Cyclone activity along the coast continues as this document is issued. Reconstruction provides
an opportunity to evaluate hazard exposure, reassess or develop standards, and incorporate appropriate
measures for reducing or transferring risks of future loss and damage. To this end, the Bank is discussing
with the Government a study of the structural integrity of existing dams within Mozambique as well as a
study of the desirability of new flood protection measures on Mozambique's major rivers, and in particular
of flood-control dams on the Save river and on the Limpopo river at Mapai.
-41 -



-.TaKbe 3: Ctits of Digaster Frven'idai iiid Prepduess; t         mllIoi       '.
Direct     Reconst.
MWeeeoirsoagacl systemns:
Instrumentation'                                                           0.12        0.12
Station infrastructure                                                     0.10        0.20
Immediate enhancements                                                                 0.73
Medium-term enhancements_                                                              2.89
Hydiro-meteorologiczR stations rehabliltaton                                0.10        0.60
Sub-total: IHlazard monAtoring and forecasting                              0.42        4.54
IFlood protection
Existing embankments - emergency measuress                                 2.00        10.00
Priority rehabilitation of affected dams and equipment                     1.00        1.00
Structural integrity of dams - investigation                                           0.10
Feasibility study of Mapai Dam on Limpopo for flood control                            0.50
Desk study for siting possible flood control dam on Save River                         0.10
New flood protection measures (including dredging) - investigation                     0.55
Sub-total: Flood protection                                                 3.00        12.25
Enhanced disaster reduction capacaty
Regional cooperation' (see Table 4 below)                                              0.60
Evacuation plans - preparation and dissemination                                       0.50
National-level sectoral plan preparation/coordination (see Table 4)                    1.00
Strengthened national-local coordination for high risk areas (Table 4)                 0.50
Sub-total: Enhanced disaster reduction capacity                                          2.60
Total                                                                       3.42        19.39
Source: World Bank estimates.
'Estimated replacement costs of instrumentation lost at Xai-Xai, Massangena, Chokwe, Sabie, Moamba, Barragem de
Pequenos Libombos. Barragem de Comimana, Chibuto, Machanga and Mambone.
2 Direct losses refer to reconstruction costs for meteorological stations at Xai-Xai and Massangena; replacement costs
refer to estimated cost of relocating them to safer locations.
3Estimated costs of equipment for improving cyclone tracking and forecasting and communication of information to
the public, including upgrading the PDUS and MESSIR and installing HPRT and television equipment.
4 Estimated costs for upgrading GPS for MWI I DigiCORA and installation of 2 weather radars to improve rainfall
forecasting.
5 Includes investigation into additional emergency measures.
6 Includes cooperation on flood risk analysis and reduction, climate forecasting and disaster reduction.
-42 -



29.    The Govermment's strategy for long-term disaster reduction is articulated in its national emergency
management policy and draft national action plan. On the policy side, prevention and preparedness are
stressed. Specific elements include involvement of civil society, sectorally integrated approaches,
development of sector- and hazard-specific disaster management plans, community-based approaches and
civic education, promotion of risk reduction incentives, institutional capacity building, and creation of
financial reserves and materials in consideration of especially high-risk areas. On the institutional side,
INGC was created in 1999 by statute within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation to oversee
disaster preparedness and prevention in Mozambique. Thus, sound policy and statutory bases already exist
for future institutional development in these areas. There also appears to be considerable international
interest in providing support. Additional consultation with the Government of Mozambique and
intemational donors is needed to identify the precise nature of the technical assistance that INGC and other
Government agencies now require and the Bank's possible role in providing any such assistance (see Table
4).
Table 4: Possible Framework and Implementation Notes for Disaster Reduction
InstitutionLocal-National LevelNational-Regional Level
INAM
(hazard emphasis)Replace and enhance climate and weather monitoring and forecasting
Strengthen public information capabilities for early warningSupport continued/enhanced GOM
participation in the Southern Africa Regional Climate Outlook Forum (SARCOF) for seasonal climate
forecasting
DNA
(hazard emphasis)Replace and enhance river monitoring and flood forecasting
Implement flood control projects
Build flood protection embankmentsCooperate regionally on watershed management, including flood
control, land use management, and information sharing
INGC
(hazard/
vulnerability
emphasis)Develop institutions (mostly human resources) for interministerial sectoral coordination,
focusing on high-risk local areaslmprove GOM participation in SADC regional cooperation on disaster
reduction
GOM Sectoral
Institutions
(vulnerability
emphasis)Create or designate and support focal points for intersectoral, inter-ministerial coordination on
disaster prevention and preparednessAs appropriate, contribute to regional watershed and land use
management initiatives on main regional river catchment areas
World Bank
Role in Support of GOM
(vulnerability
emphasis)Include identification, reduction and transfer of disaster risk into sectoral project design and
implementation
Study hazard and vulnerability as needed for calculating risksSupport regional watershed and land use
management initiatives on main regional river catchment areas
Source: World Bank staff.
-43 -



C. IDA'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
The Elements of IDA's Response
30.    During the flood, the Bank received a request from the Government of Mozambique for emergency
assistance. The Bank's response is being closely coordinated with the IMF and with other donors
providing assistance to Mozambique in response to the emergency. IDA is responding to the disaster in the
following ways:
*      Preliminary damage assessment: In close cooperation with the Govermment, the Core Group of
donors working with the Government on reconstruction assistance, and the IMF, World Bank staff have
prepared a preliminary assessment of the damage resulting from the flood and cyclone emergency. This
assessment, entitled "A Preliminary Assessment of Damage from the Flood and Cyclone Emergency of
February-March 2000", was completed on March 27, 2000, and will be an important contribution to the
Government's own overall assessment and to an Intemational Donor Conference on reconstruction
scheduled for early May 2000.
*      Debt relief. On April 6, the World Bank Board, in the context of the Enhanced HIPC
Framework, approved accelerated debt relief to Mozambique through various modalities to cover 100
percent of IDA debt service due over the next twelve months (about US$10 million), so that IDA debt
service obligations do not become an obstacle to Mozambique's ability to respond to emergency
rehabilitation needs.
*      Emergency financing: The Govemment has an urgent need for emergency financing to cover
additional import needs generated by the emergency while maintaining macroeconomic stability. The
proposed fast-track Flood Emergency Recovery Project (FERP) would help to meet this need. IDA staff
have also been collaborating with the Govenmment of Mozambique and the IMF on a preliminary
reassessment of Mozambique's macroeconomic situation.
*      Short- to medium-term rehabilitation: IDA staff are working with counterpart Government
agencies and other development partners to reprogram existing projects in the IDA portfolio, to provide
high-priority and fast-disbursing assistance for rehabilitating physical and social infrastructure. In view of
the extent of the damage and the need for immediate assistance, IDA staff believe that reprogramrning the
existing program is a faster and more flexible way to meet Mozambique's short- and medium-term
rehabilitation needs than designing and implementing a new multisectoral flood rehabilitation project.
Seven of thel3 ongoing IDA operations in Mozambique, including the four sector investment projects in
roads, agriculture, health and education, will be restructured as needed within existing credit amounts and
used to finance rehabilitation expenses. However, certain ongoing operations may require supplemental
funding to cover sectoral reconstruction needs - if sufficient support from other donors is not received. It
was agreed at negotiations for this Project that IDA and the Government will undertake a joint review of
Mozambique's emergency funding requirements prior to June 30, 2000, and in that context propose
supplemental financing for IDA projects as needed. All proposals for project restructuring requiring Board
approval will be consolidated in a single Memorandum of the President to be presented to the Board,
independently of this Flood Emergency Recovery Project, at a later date. IDA is also reviewing and
modifying, as necessary, projects and non-lending services currently scheduled or under preparation to
ensure that future IDA support addresses the Government's development agenda adjusted to reflect
- 44 -



priorities resulting from the damage.
*      Long-term reconstruction: The Mozambique CAS was discussed by the Board on December 18,
1997. A new CAS was under preparation at the time of the floods and is scheduled for Board discussion
on June 1, 2000. Over the next few weeks, the Government will prepare a reconstruction program, to be
presented at the May Donor Conference on the flood emergency. Mozambique's next Consultative Group
meeting, scheduled for June 8-9, 2000, will also discuss the response to the flood emergency. In addition,
and consistently with IDA emphasis on institutional development, IDA is exploring with the Government
and other partners ways to strengthen Mozambique's institutional capacity for disaster prevention and
preparedness, which may involve preparation of either a freestanding technical assistance operation or
addition of a component to an existing or future operation. (See page 11, Table 3, for activities that IDA
may support in this context.)
Internal Administrative Measures
31.    IDA has worked closely with the Government, UN agencies, bilateral donors, NGOs and the IMF
since the onset of the floods in early February, to identify and respond to reconstruction and
macro-economic needs. As the crisis deepened in early March, a large multisectoral mission visited
Mozambique to design the IDA response. The mission included staff covering the macroeconomy, water,
roads, railroads, energy, agriculture, health, education, municipal government, private sector, industry and
disaster management, as well as financial management, legal, disbursements and procurement specialists.
The latter group worked with IDA and Government teams to formulate the adjustments needed to enable
existing operations to be responsive to reconstruction needs arising from the disaster. The IDA HIPC team
responded rapidly, designing a frontloading of the delivery of IDA debt relief to free up resources for
emergency and reconstruction expenses in the year following the crisis. The Bank's Disaster Management
Facility provided advice and staff for the mission.
Lessons Learned
32.    In designing its response to the emergency, the team drew from the advice of OED and from
mission staff based in the Bank's Disaster Management Facility. Advice was also taken from Bank teams
involved in responding to similar emergencies in different parts of the world, including Bangladesh,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Turkey. Particular importance was attached to learning from the
experience in respondi.ig to Hurricane Mitch in Central America, due to similarities in the nature of the
disaster, the levels of poverty, and the size and nature of the economy. Key lessons for post-disaster
recovery projects noted in a recent Bank publication Gilbert, Roy and Kreimer, Alcira; "Learning from the World
Bank's Experience of Natural Disaster Related Assistance", Urban Development Division, World Bank, May 1999, p. 17-18.
include: (i) the speed of both appraisal and implementation is crucial for success; (ii) mitigation measures
should always be included against a repeat disaster; (iii) procurement needs to be flexible, and procurement
management needs to start early and perhaps be centralized in one agency; and (iv) community involvement
and participation are essential for successful reconstruction work. Another review of emergency lending
Kreimer, Alcira, "Lessons Learned from Emergency Lending", Environment Departmnent Working Paper No. 1990-15, World
Bank, November 1990. noted that: (v) the sirnpler the design the better, and that (vi) the institutional
framework, and strategic management of emergency and reconstruction, is crucial for project success.
Recent experience in Bangladesh (P-7264-BD) and Nicaragua (P-7279-NI) indicates that (vii) flexibility in
the design of recovery projects is necessary to permit changes as project implementation yields more
informnation, and (viii) emergency projects must be simple, rapidly executable, sharply focussed, and not
burdened with conditionality.
- 45 -



Rationale for IDA Involvement
33.    The Bank Group's CAS is aimed at reducing poverty in Mozambique through sustainable,
broad-based economic growth. It is in full accord with the Government's poverty reduction objectives and
strategy as enunciated in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of February 2000, and in its
recently approved Five Year Development Plan. The three pillars of the current CAS focus on (i)
promoting rapid, broad-based private sector-led growth; (ii) capacity building and development of human
resources, and (iii) strengthening development partnerships. The country has a record of strong
macroeonomic management in recent years. It has achieved rapid GDP growth (averaging 10 percent per
annum over the past 5 years) while reducing inflation to single digits, stabilizing the foreign exchange
market and reinvigorating the financial market and the private sector through a vigorous program of
privatization. In order to maintain the gains on the macroeconomic front, it is essential that resources be
made available to the Government to enable it to stabilize the foreign exchange market, manage a potential
deepening of the budget deficit, and finance the import requirements of the reconstruction effort. The
proposed Flood Emergency Recovery Project will contribute directly to this objective. Designed within the
limits of the OP/BP 8.50, the proposed operation will provide foreign exchange to help stabilize the foreign
exchange market, and facilitate the import of items essential to the smooth operation of the economy and to
the reconstruction efforts in the disaster affected areas. The operation complements balance of payment
support promised by other multilateral and bilateral donors.
D. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
34.    The proposed Flood Emergency Recovery Project is part of the first phase of IDA's strategy to
assist in the reconstruction of Mozambique. It would assist the Govemment in implementing its program to
maintain macroeconomic stability through financing the import costs associated with rebuilding social and
economic infrastructure, and re-establishing production levels in response to the damage caused by the
floods and cyclones Connie and Eline. The performance of the project would be measured by how well
Mozambique maintains macroeconomic stability in 2000 and beyond, especially in terms of the current
account deficit and the budget deficit of the Central Government (see Attachment 3).
Project Description
35.    The Flood Emergency Recovery Project will provide immediate, quick-disbursing support to
finance a positive list of imports needed for the rehabilitation program while supporting macroeconomic
objectives. While the proposed credit would be entirely quick-disbursing, it is only one part of an
unbundled set of actions by the Bank Group to respond to the effects of the flood. The project will, inter
alia, provide assistance for imports for its recovery program, as follows: (i) construction materials,
vehicles, electricity and fuel that are needed for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, including
transport, water, sanitation, power, buildings, etc. and for the recuperation of private enterprise.; (ii)
agricultural inputs (including fertilizers and seeds), equipment, materials, machinery and fuel needed to
reestablish agricultural outputs; (iii) livestock, animal products, and veterinary medicines; (iv) medical
supplies and equipment needed for hospitals, health centers, and health posts that were damaged; (v) school
supplies and equipment needed for schools and educational facilities that were partially or totally destroyed;
- 46 -



and (vi) machinery, spare parts and equipment for commercial and industrial companies. No
disbursements will be made to cover used goods, luxury goods, or military equipment.
Project Cost and Financing.
36.    The size of the proposed credit, at US$30 million equivalent, is based on the Government's request
for emergency assistance and an assessment of the adverse effects of the floods on the balance of payments
after taking account of the assistance expected from other donors, including the IMF. The proposed Credit
would finance 100 percent of the foreign costs of imports on the positive list, excluding import duties and
taxes. Attachment I shows the positive list of items to be financed for the proposed credit. The Credit
would also finance 100 percent of the foreign costs and 80 percent of the local costs of consultant services
(including audits) for purposes of the project up to a ceiling of US$335,000 equivalent. A summary of the
proposed procurement and disbursement arrangements is shown in Attachment 2. Consistent with the
emergency nature of the proposed support, these arrangements have been simplified and streamlined to the
extent feasible, while seeking to ensure that overall concems about due diligence, transparency, and
avoiding corruption are addressed.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization and Management
37.    Project implementation an-angements have been streamlined to conform to the emergency nature of
IDA's assistance. In addressing IDA's fiduciary responsibilities, IDA will ensure that credit proceeds are
administered prudently and only used to finance the import of goods included on the positive list as well as
the consulting services that are required for implementation of the project; that required procurement,
accounting and auditing procedures are followed; and that appropriate retention of documents is provided
to allow for IDA supervision and independent audits.
38.    The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) with the
assistance of the Bank of Mozambique (BoM). The execution of an Implementation Agreement,
satisfactory to IDA, defining the assistance to be provided by the BoM, is a condition of effectiveness. If
requested, the National Institute of Statistics will provide the overall information on imports based on
customs documentation (Documentos Unicos). The BoM will maintain copies of the relevant supporting
documentation. The credit will finance 100 percent of the delivered cost of eligible imports, excluding
import duties and taxes, of a positive list of goods (Attachment 1) agreed with Government as well as 100
percent of the foreign costs and 80 percent of the local costs of the consulting services required for
implementation of the project.
Procurement
39.    Credit proceeds will be made available to finance public and private sector imports against
documentation evidencing that the imported goods were both on the positive list and procured following
agreed procurement procedures. Imports financed with credit proceeds would be limited to goods from
eligible countries in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September
1997 and January 1999). No more than 50 percent of the credit will be used to finance the import of any
class of eligible imports on the positive list without prior approval by IDA. Contracts for consultants
-47-



financed under the credit will be based on the Bank's Guidelines (Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). To facilitate the procurement process, the services of a procurement agent may be retained
by the Borrower.
40.    The credit will be used to finance imports procured in accordance with the procedures presented in
Table 5 below. All procurement of imports by the private sector with contracts of US$3.0 million or above
will be based on Simplified International Competitive Bidding Procedures subject to prior review by IDA.
Imports by the private.sector with contracts of less than the equivalent of US$3.0 million will be acquired
based on established commercial practices and will not need prior review of IDA.
41.    Public sector imports financed under this project will follow Simplified Intemational Competitive
Bidding Procedures, as provided under IDA's Procurement Guidelines (Clauses 2.63 and 2.64). Contracts
let by the public sector of US$0.5 million or above and contracts awarded after December 31, 2000, will be
subject to prior review by IDA. However, to facilitate the speedy import of items required immediately for
the recovery effort, public sector imports of less than US$0.5 million equivalent and awarded between
February 4, 2000 and December 31, 2000, may be based on Intemational Shopping Procedures in
accordance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines (Clauses 3.5 and 3.6). The project will finance the
importation of fuel and fertilizers by both private and public importers through established international
commodity markets, or through simplified procurement procedures provided for under IDA's Procurement
Guidelines.
'talbe 5:    ii    t Procedures
Procurement CategorieI                      Procurement Method
Public Sector Procurement
Commodities                               Through established international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Clause 2.65 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods valued at or more than US$0.5 million  Simplified international competitive bidding
procedures under Clauses 2.63 and 2.64 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods for contracts awarded between February 4,  In  accordance  with  intemational  shopping
2000 and December 31, 2000, valued at less than  procedures under Clauses 3.5 and 3.6 of IDA's
US$0.5 million                            Procurement Guidelines
Private Sector Procurement
Commodities                               Through established international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Clause 2.65 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods valued at or more than US$3.0 million  Simplified  international  competitive  bidding
procedures under Clauses 2.63 and 2.64 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods for contracts valued at less than US$3.0  Based on established commercial practices
million
Disbursennents
42.    The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed against 100 percent of the delivered cost of imports,
excluding import duties and taxes, of the agreed positive list, and consulting services. To avoid excessive
-48-



transaction costs for IDA, public and private sector import contracts of less than US$20,000 will not be
eligible for financing with credit proceeds.
43.    Throughout the period of the credit, disbursements for goods procured by the private sector with
contract value less than US$3.0 million will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Disbursements for goods procured by the public sector up to December 31, 2000 with contract value less
than US$0.5 million will also be made against SOEs. Supporting documentation for SOEs.will be retained
by the BoM and will be available for review by IDA financial management and procurement specialists and
project auditors. The Closing Date for this credit is expected to be December 31, 2001.
44.    The Borrower may request disbursements through a US Dollar Special Account to be established
by the BoM, with an authorized allocation up to US$7.5 million, or 25 percent of the total credit amount
The Special Account will be replenished as and when needed to ensure timely disbursements of funds to
cover eligible expenditures.
Financial Management and Monitoring
45.    The financial transactions pertaining to this operation will be recorded and monitored by the
financial management system of the BoM, which has considerable experience and a good track record in
managing donor funds in operations of this nature. Appropriate staff will be identified within BoM for:
managing the project, maintaining proper records and accounts and producing quarterly project financial
statements on a timely basis in a format acceptable to IDA.
46.    The retention of an independent auditing firm on terms of reference acceptable to IDA is a
condition of effectiveness. Quarterly independent audits of the project financial statements (including the
Special Account and SOEs) will be undertaken in accordance with international auditing standards and will
be submitted to IDA within 30 days of each calendar quarter. The fourth quarter audit report will present
the cumulative balances to the end of the financial year.
47.    The project's macroeconomic monitoring indicators are described in Attachment 3. Reports on
progress against these indicators will be prepared and submitted to IDA quarterly.
Retroactive Financing
48.    Retroactive financing in the amount of US$6 million equivalent, 20 percent of the credit amount,
would be provided to finance expenditures incurred before credit signing, but after February 4, 2000, the
approximate date of the onset of the devastation caused by the flooding.
Special Account
49.    The Borrower may request disbursement through a US Dollar Special Account to be established by
the Bank of Mozambique, with an authorized allocation of up to US$7.5 million, or 25 percent of the total
credit amount The Special Account would be replenished as and when needed to ensure timely
disbursements of funds to cover eligible imports.
Project Sustainability
50.    The Project itself is designed to help sustain macroeconomic stability and supports the first phase
-49 -



of IDA's strategy for assisting Mozambique to deal with the destruction caused by the floods. Other parts
of that strategy are also important for long-term sustainability, and will be addressed under existing
projects in the IDA portfolio, and a combination of new supplemental credits and free-standing projects.
Long-term reconstruction concerns and institutional capacity strengthening for disaster preparedness (and
flood management in particular) will be an integral part of this assistance. The objective, even under
existing projects in the portfolio, will not be simply to replace what has been lost, but to improve, redesign,
and relocate economic activity, infrastructure and services as needed, to ensure long-term sustainability.
F. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Project Benefits
51.    The project has several benefits. Import financing under the credit will provide timely balance of
payments support to the Government in view of the additional import demands generated by the effects of
the floods and the cyclone. The project will also be critical to maintaining macroeconomic stability while
rehabilitating and restoring productive capacity in Mozambique and ensuring procurement and delivery of
adequate supplies of essential equipment, materials, and commodities for the reconstruction of public and
private assets, and the recovery of the economy in the region. The counterpart funds generated by the sale
of foreign exchange will provide the Government with an important source of non-inflationary finance for
its emergency recovery program at a time when there will be need for additional government expenditures
and pressure on revenues due to lower than projected economic growth. It will complement the support for
short- and medium-term rehabilitation that will be provided through the restructuring and reprogramming
of ongoing operations in the portfolio, and assistance provided by other multilateral and bilateral agencies.
Project Risks
52.    There are two major risks. First, there is some macroeconomic uncertainty associated with the
economic impact of the floods and the Government's ability to maintain stability in the face of increasing
fiscal and external pressures. The project itself will directly address this risk. To this end, it is extremely
important that disbursements under the operation not be delayed. Second, emergency recovery programs
can provide an environment conducive to misappropriation of resources. The project will address this risk
through due diligence in procurement, independent audits, and a periodic review of project accounts by
IDA staff. The Bank of Mozambique, the implementing agency of this project, also has substantial
mstitutional experience and a good track record in managing quick-disbursing funds provided by IDA and
other donors over the past years.
Attachments
April 6, 2000
Washington, D.C.
- 50 -



ATTACHMENT 1
MOZAMBIQUE
FLOOD-EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Positive List of Imports
1. Construction materials
2. Water, land and air transport vehicles
3. Agriculture equipment and inputs
4. Livestock, animal products and veterinary supplies
5. School supplies and equipment
6. Medical supplies and equipment
7. Petroleum and fuel products
8. Construction equipment and industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials
9. Electricity
10. Electrical equipment, machinery, materials and parts
-51 -






ATTACHMENT 2
Page 1 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
A. Summary of Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Procedures
Procurement Categories                     Procurement Method
Public Sector Procurement
Commodities                               Through established international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Clause 2.65 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods valued at or more than US$0.5 million  Simplified international competitive bidding
procedures under Clauses 2.63 and 2.64 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods for contracts awarded between February In accordance with international shopping
4, 2000 and December 31, 2000, valued at less  procedures under Clauses 3.5 and 3.6 of IDA's
than US$0.5 million                      Procurement Guidelines
Private Sector Procurement
Commodities                               Through established international commodity
markets or other channels of competitive
procurement as defined in Clause 2.65 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods valued at or more than US$3.0 million  Simplified intemational competitive bidding
procedures under Clauses 2.63 and 2.64 of IDA's
Procurement Guidelines
Goods for contracts valued at less than US$3.0  Based on established commercial practices
million
- 52 -



ATTACHMENT 2
Page 2 of 2
MOZAMBIQUE
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
B. Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement Category            Amount of Credit          Percent of Expenditure to be
SDR million                     Financed
1. Eligible imports required for         22.15               100 % of foreign expenditures
the Project as Specified in
Schedule A
2. Consultant Services including          0.25               80% of local expenditures and
audits                                            100 % of foreign expenditures
Total                         22.40
NOTE:
No disbursements will be made against used or luxury goods, military equipment, or payments for
contracts less than US$20,000.
The term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower and the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower.
- 53 -



ATTACHMENT 3
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
FLOOD EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
The proposed Flood Emergency Recovery Project will seek to assist Mozambique to maintain
macroeconomic stability by helping to sustain a higher level of imports necessary for rehabilitation and
reconstruction. In addition, the counterpart funds generated by the balance of payments support will be
used to finance a higher budget deficit linked to reconstruction activities.
The following indicators will be used to monitor the implementation of the FERP:
*      The overall balance of payments deficit in 2000 and 2001
*      The overall fiscal deficit after grants in 2000 and 2001.
Progress towards meeting these targets will be monitored quarterly, and the indicators will be adjusted, by
agreement between the borrower and IDA, as macroeconomic estimates and projections are refined, in line
with the Government's economic program.
- 54 -



Annex 7.4
Changes to the IDA Portfolio in Mozambique as a Result of the Flood
Emergency
Altogether, IDA will enhance access under nine of 15 existing credits in support of emergency
rehabilitation activities in Mozambique. Incremental flood-related disbursements under these
credits are expected to range from $30 million to $70 million, depending on the availability of
grant financing for rehabilitation activities. The Bank's comparative advantage, and the need for
Bank financing, should become clearer during the Rome Conference (May 3-4), when the
Govermment and its development partners will articulate a common reconstruction strategy. The
following bullets give further details on a project-by-project basis:
*   Roads and Coastal Shipping (ROCS) II: $2.5 million was made available for emergency
road repairs in early March (contracts have already been tendered) and another $17.5
million has been reprogrammed in response to the floods. As ROCS II funds are likely to
be fully committed by end-FYO 1, IDA is accelerating preparation for the successor
project, Roads and Bridges, for Board presentation in FY01 (it was originally
programmed for FY02).
*   Ports and Railways: IDA has agreed with CFM and the Government to make available up
to $2 million to repair the Limpopo line in case commitments from other donors are not
sufficient. (To date, USAID has made available $1.6 million of an estimated $7.3 million
required for emergency repairs.) This is consistent with the project's development
objectives (DOs) and will help to keep the concessioning process (planned, pre-flood, to
be concluded by March 31) more-or-less on track.
*   Health Sector Recovery: IDA funds are being used to respond immediately to emergency
needs, with possible subsequent replenishment from grant funds as donor pledges
materialize. Funds will also be made available to rehabilitate the flood-damaged rural
hospitals of Chokwe (Gaza), Vilanculos and Chicuque (Inhambane) as well as the General
Hospital of Jose Macamo (Maputo city). These works are consistent with project DOs and
would not require major project restructuring. Using the IDA Credit, MOH has already
launched a tender for TA to make a more precise assessment of the damage in the affected
facilities and prepare detailed designs for rehabilitation and reconstruction. Some
additional TA (to support existing implementation arrangements in MOH as well as
additional engineers and architects) may also be supported.
*   Education Sector Support (ESSP) and Human Resource Capacity-Building (HRCB)
projects: The Ministry of Education (MINED) will accelerate implementation under
ESSP (no DCA amendment or reallocation required) for school reconstruction and
provision. HRCB (which will be extended beyond its current closing date of June 30,
2000) has an undisbursed balance of $2.4 million that MINED will use to support
reconstruction of secondary schools; it may also seek a supplementation of $1.2 million
under the project to support reconstruction at UEM.
*   Agriculture (PROA GRI) : IDA has identified about $21 million of activities in the
agriculture sector that might need Bank support ($10.5 million for agricultural chemicals,
equipment, livestock and animal products; $7.0 million for rebuilding the Chokwe
irrigation scheme; $1.5 million for rehabilitating the Xai Xai drainage schemes; and $2.5
- 55 -



million to help medium- and large-scale farmers rebuild capital assets), but grant money
from other donors is expected to finance most of these activities.
*   National Water Development (NWD) I, National Water Development II, and Municipal
Development (MDP) (under preparation): IDA will provide about $ 5.5 million of
assistance, covering: small piped systems in Maputo and Inhambane Provinces, rural and
peri-urban sanitation in Maputo and Inhambane Provinces, Maputo/Matola sanitation and
drainage, additional support and strengthening of on-going water resources activities, and
the Maputo/Matola urban water supply system (the latter to be implemented through the
private operator, Aguas de Mozambique (AdM)). Funds will also be made available to
DNA's management to augment their implementation capacity. The majority of the these
works are covered by the DOs of NWD I. IDA will move certain works and activities
currently funded under NWDP I to NWDP II and to the proposed MDP to create
"headroom" under the ongoing NWDP I that will finance the majority of the flood
emergency activities. NWDP II will require a supplementation of about US$ 5 million to
enable it to fund the additional activities moved to this credit from NWDP I. Strategic
sanitation planning will continue to be executed under NWD 1, the implementation of
sanitation sub-projects will be transferred to the proposed MDP.
- 56 -



ANNEX 7.5
Evolution of the donor response to the government's appeal tor the uRecon.
struction Programme for 200012001, as of 30104/01
lin US$ millions)
Rss r ll     f  En (2         s lads
GermanvGTZ                                         2756                         2 082
Grmn naiXW                     f1355A0                      I      130          0 063
Auistria                          I'm0             o.n97           .C6
Aftricn De.vlWperit Bank          OSM00            2501D        0S00            250
elgijun                           6QOD                          ___0_
Cape Verde                     D2                                               D'3 1
Canads                       574E
Cyprus                                             0.016                         01 6
Oenmor5                           12539            11.600      1I0              ;l:o
Enpn                                              0a 50
Spain                            15000            150D0
FAO                                                0 4W 0356
Finand                           4* 90370 1'10i 0l?O25
France                             0.400           15.210      14.197           0.145
oantd                            *0O0i            45030        450W0           la00J
IDRC                                               00D1                         ^035
Irland                            53D0             5310         2o0             5.310
kielend                           0.500            CibO3       0 50             0 q00
ftaly                            22000            21.MEO       60 0.0a
Japan                            30XO0 5c11                                     . l I
Morocco 131                       0100
Noray                             5        6        .o2o        6.235           :241
NowZealand                        0.100            0.,93                        0,33
N60s                                               t fl                         0 s22
Ponugal                           1It0 1001                    18000
Unhed Kingdom                    44l800           43 010       33.b60          3.95
Sweden                           20000             11343       11344            II 3;
Sviftu2rland                      ENO              4 544        336             I882
UNEP                              0000
EuI opeon LUnIon                 60OAD0           57 427       23 456          '9 139
*NICEI                            0.000            0395        0 396 _39
UNICEF                            tW                 3i          3s              . 3
USAID                           131000            13' W0      132.000          3203
.  ~ ~~~             06595~~~LS  311.A72          163.343
0b  announced aid and additional disb m ems
Woid SEank                                        34.323       30.123          2S gm
(t) Refers to announcements In Romne;
121 Refem to0 nnouneCments confrmed afttc zrne s'ana1,ons in the total a!c     toi
adjustmcnts resulting from corasullation -4fth.'ndihidual donors.



Annex 7.6
N. Ref.Z    IDES-COIN/MA/02
Maputo, 04 de Junho de 2002
Exmo Senhor
Dr. Dipac Jaiantilal
Macroeconoinista Senior
Missao Residente do Banco Mundial
Av. Kenneth Kaunda n 1224
MAPUTO
Assunto: Flood Emergency Recoveiy Credit
Envio de comentarios do ICR
Na sequencia da solicitaao de V. Excias, temos o prazer de remeter os comentaios
relativos ao ICR do cr6dito em epigrafe.
Melhores cumprimentos
Atmindo Uonjanc.
A-033
- 58 -






Comments on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
Flood Emergency Recovery Credit (FERP)
This is to confirm the reception of the Implementation Completion Report
of the above mentioned credit, according to which the Project Outcome is
rated satisfactory.
As you are aware, the Flood Emergency Recovery Credit has been the IDA's
strategy to assist in the reconstruction of Mozambique after the flood
disaster of February 2000.
The credit in an amount of US$30.0 million equivalent, would assist the
Govermment in implementing its program to mantain macroeconomic
stability through financing the import costs associated with rebuilding social
and economic infrastructure, and re-establishing production levels in
response to the damage caused by the floods and cyclones Connie and Eline.
Given its objective, the performance of the project would be measured by
how well Mozambique has maintained macroeconomic stability since 2000
and beyond, especially in terms of the current account deficit.
Concerning to the balance of payments, the current account deficit has
reduced from 17.6% in 2000 to 8.8% in 2001. The other macroeconomic
indicators have, also, shown an improvement in the said period.
With reference to the Project benefits, it is worth noting that import
financing under the credit has provided timely balance of payments support
to the Govermnent in view of the additional demands generated by the
effects of the flood and cyclone disaster. The project has, also, been critical
to maintaining macroeconomic stability and restoring productive capacity in
the country.
The counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange have
provided to the Government with an important source of finance for its
emergency recovery program.
- 59 -



The auditor has produced the required reports according to which the
borrower's financial statements and use of funds, both, are satisfactory.
Given the above reasons, in overall terns, the content of the Implementation
Completion Report received is consistent with the borrower's point of view
as well as with the auditor's opinion. Therefore, we would like to express
our agreement with the said ICR.
- 60 -



