Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
}J\i 2eb{ 6
Report No. 6669-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
May 26, 1987
Pro jec ts Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricedl disribution and mayr be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUJVALENTS
Currency Unit  a  Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00        V  Cz$ 14.20 1/
US$1.00        *  Cz$ 31.00 2/
CZ$1.00        n  US$0*0323 7/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                  :  January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Programt   April 1 to March 31
Project                               = April 1 to march 31
1/ Exchange rate at the time of appraisal (December 1986)
2   Exchange rate as of May 20, 1987



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB             -  Banco do Brasil, S.A.
(Bank of Brazil)
COOPNORTE      -  Associacao das Cooperativas do Norte de Minas Gerais
(Association of Cooperatives of the North of Minas Gerais)
COPASA-MG      -  Companhia de Saneamento do Estado de Minas Gerais
(State Sanitation Company)
CPATSA         -  Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropic)
EMATER-MG      -  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Minas Gerais
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPAMIG         -  Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria de l-linas Gerais
(State Agricultural Research Company)
FETAEMG        -  Federacao de Trabalhadores Agricolas do Estado de Minas Gerais
(Agricultural Worker Federation of the State of Minas Gerais)
FJP            -  Fundacao Joao Pinheiro
(Joao Pinheiro Foundation)
FUNAI          -  Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IC             -  Comissao Interministerial para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
ICM            -  Imposto Sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias
(Tax on Product Circulation)
INCRA          -  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reform. Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
MINTER         - Ministerio do Interior
(Ministry of the Interior)
MIRAD          - Ministerio da Reforma Agraria e de Desenvolvimento
(Ministry of Agrarian Reform and Development)
NRDP           -  Northeast Rural Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the periormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS (Continued)
POLONO%DESTE   -  Programa de Desenvolvisento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast)
PRORIDRO       -  Programa de Aproveitamento de Recursos Hidricos do Nordeste
- (Water Resources Use Program for the Northeast)
RDC            -  Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
RURALMINAS     -  Fundacao Rural Mineira, Colonizacao e Desenvolvimento Agrario
(Rural Development Foundation)
SCC            -  State Coordinating Commission
SEAG-MG        -  Secretaria da Agricultura de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Agriculture)
SEPLAN-MG      -  Secretaria de Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral de
Minas Gerais
(State Planning and General Coordination Secretariat)
SERTANEJO      -  Programa Especial de Apoio do Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid
Region of the Northeast)
SRTAS-MG       -  Secretaria do Trabalho e Acao Social de Minas Gerais
(State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action)
SIMA           -  Sistema de Informacao de Mercado Agricola
(Agricultural Marketing and Information System)
SRDC           -  Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
SUDENE         -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
SUDENOR        -  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Norte de Minas Gerais
(Superintendency for the Development of the North of Minas
Gerais)
SUPAGRO        -  Superintendencia Agropecuaria
(Superintendency for Agriculture and Livestock)
TCU            -  Technical Coordinating Unit
UFV            -  Universidade Federal de Vicosa
(Federal University of Vicosa)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
Table of Contents
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................        1
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  3******..*      ..........................  3
Agriculture in the National Economy        ......................  3
The Rural Northeast *    ............o........oo...ooo..         3
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast ..       4
Experience with Past Bank Lending ......    ..................   4
The Northeast Region of the State of Minas Gerais ........        5
III.  THE PROJECT ...*       ...........................................   7
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin    ................    7
Project Area .....   .....                                       7
Amerindian Protection and Resettlement of non-Amerindian
Population *e00000000000000000000000000000000........          7
Project Objectives and Description        .......................  8
Water Resource Development         ..........................  8
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production .....       9
Rural Extension *******900000i0,*.0.00.0 ..... 00 .00       9
Rural Credit .*      o ooo.................o** oo..oo....oo.o..oo   10
Marketing Services *000*000 0000000                         10
Support to Small Rural Communities        ..................  11
Project Administration and Training       .................    11
Land Tenure Improvement  .**        ............................  11
Project Organization and Implementation       ..................  12
Federal and Regional Levels ..... .......    ............  12
State and Local Levels *.......**      ...................  12
Annual Planning and Budgeting        .......................  12
Accounts and Auditing ***......        ........... .oo     13
Operating Agreements  ...ooooooo .o*o*** ooo ooe.eo.eoo    13
Monitoring and Evaluation ......      ....................  13
Project Cost *....*............*.... ......*......*..           13
Financing Plan ***,*******,****.......................,.         14
Procurement   ..........    ,                                   14
Disbursements *****.*....*,....*,*..  .*..*                      15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in December 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. J.P. Delsalle,
A. Tobelem, D. Mitchnik (IBRD), and Messrs. M. Ragerstrom and
J.M. Pliego-Gutierrez (Consultants).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page
Project Benefits and Justification        .......................  16
Production, Benefits and Farm Incomes ...    ............    16
Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact ............a......       16
Economic Analysis ....................                   17
Project Risks ...................... ,.. . ........ .....      17
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................           17
ANNEX 1 PROJECT DESCRIPTION ... .....q.e.*.....................   20
Table 1.1 Structure of Land Holdings in the Project Area .    28
Table 1.2 Evolution of Agricultural Production In the
Project Area ........  ............ ...   ............  29
Table 1.3 Project Area and Beneficiary Distribution   ......    30
Table 1.4 List of Municipalities in the Project Area  .....    31
Table 1.5 Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities   ......    32
Table 1.6 Summary Account by Project Component ...........     33
Table 1.7 Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements   .......    35
Table 1.8 Allocation of Loan Proceeds        ....................    36
Table 1.9 Financing Plan        .................................  37
ANNEX 2 PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................     38
Table 2.1 List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies  ...    41
Chart 1  Project Coordination and Management Chart   ......    42
Chart 2   Implementation Schedule        ........................    43
ANNEX 3 FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS .....................     44
Table 3.1 Total Annual Area, Marketable Production and
Value of Major Crops and Livestock without
ProJect and at Full Development      ................    46
Table 3.2 Characteristics of Illustrative Farm Models
Used in Financial and Economic Analyses  ........    47
Table 3.3 Estimated Areas and Yields of Major Crops at
Farm Level without Project and at Full
Development ........         *                       48
Table 3.4 Project Economic Analysis       ......................    51
Table 3.5 Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic
Analyses .....*.................................     52
Table 3.6 Project Sensitivity Analysis       ...................    53
ANNEX 4  PARALLEL ACTIVITIES ....             .... ......... ooooooe-so..o  54
ANNEX 5 DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE .........*....    55
MAPS: IBRD 18686 - Yearly Land Adjudication Operations
IBRD 20381 - Project Area
IBRD 20382 - Agricultural Potential Defined by
Dependable Rainfall



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil.
Executing
Agencies:       The Superintendency for the Development of the North of Minas
Gerais (SUDENOR) within the State Secretariat of Planning and
General Coordination (SEPLAN-MG).
Amount:         US$55.0 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
-     -          -including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 38,000 low-income families operating farms of up to
100 ha in 42 municipalities of the Northeast Region of Minas
Gerais would be the direct- beneficiaries of farm improvement
components. An estimated additional 12,000 families would
also benefit from the support to small rural communities.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is one in a series of projects within
the new Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). The
project objectives are to: (a) increase agricultural
production and productivity in the Northeast Region of the
State of Minas Gerais; (b) generate income and employment
opportunities for low-income rural families; (c) promote
water resource development ahd technology generation and
diffusion to decrease small farmers' vulnerability to
recurring droughts; (d) increase community participation in
all phases of the development process; and (e) strengthen
the State of Minas Gerais' institutional capacity to provide
efficient agricultural services to small farmers. In order
to meet its objectives the project would support water
resource development for agricultural and domestic use,
adaptive agricultural research, agricultural extension,
investment credit, marketing services, funding for community
subprojects, and project administration and training.
Risks:          Possible project risks include:  (a) insecure land tenure;
(b) inefficient delivery of project services;
(c) lack of sufficient interinstitutional cooperation;
(d) recurring droughts and pest outbreaks (boll weevil) on
the major cash crop, cotton; and (e) delays and shortfalls in
counterpart funding and credit. The project has been
designed so as to minimize these risks. Progress will be
closely followed by Bank staff through review of annual
operating plans and improved supervision, monitoring and



-2-
evaluation. Implementation of the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project and the Government's agrarian
reform would Increase land tenure security. Streamlined
administrative procedures, measures for institutional
strengthening and technical assistance for selected agencies
would improve efficiency and project coordination. Crop
diversification and intensified technology generation and
diffusion would make farmers less vulnerable to drought and
pest outbreaks. The Government adopted new measures in 1986
to ensure the timely availability of counterpart funds and
credit. In addition, the regional scope of the Northeast
Program and the support the Program enjoys among government
and local leaders should help secure adequate funding and
satisfactory implementation of the proposed project.
Estimated Costs
Local      Foreign       Total
-UUS$ million -
A.  Water Resource Development                     14.9         5.0         19.9
B.  Agricultural Research and Basic Seed
Production                                   4.6         0.6           5.2
C. Rural Extension                                 22.3        1.6          23.9
D. Rural Investment Credit                         28.0        4.9          32.9
E. Marketing Services                               0.7         0.3          1.0
F.  Support to Small Rural Communities             15.7        2.4          18.1
G.  Project Administration and Training             5.3        0.4           5.7
Total Baseline Costs                               91.5        15.2        106.7
Physical Contingencies                              1.3        0.5           1.8
Price Contingencies                                 4.5        0.5           5.0
Total Project Costs                                97.3        16.2        113.5 1/
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign      Total
US$ milli on
Government                                      58.5         -           58.5
IBRD                                           38.8        16.2          55.0
TOTAL                                          97.3        16.2         113.5
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY:  1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996
Annual        4.0 2/  4.8      7.7     8.0      9.5     8.4     5.6      4.8    2.2
Cumulative   4.0      8.8    16.5    24.5    34.0    42.4    48.0    52.8   55*0
Rate of Return: 13%
MaPs:   IBRD 18686-R, 20381 and 20382
1/ Including about US$3.4 million of taxes and duties.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$2.5 million into the Special Account.



- 3 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In 1970,
agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active population
and 67% of total exports. In 1985, these figures were 13%, 30% and 31%,
respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was rapid expansion in Brazil's
agriculture (5% per annum); during the recession in the early 1980s, output and
investment stagnated and then recovered in 1984 and 1985.
2.02      The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked sharply disparate
rates of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic expansion Wa8 with products that rely on heavy capital investment or
high levels of inputs, such as soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on
large commercial farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth
rates, and in some cases declines, were recorded for such staple food crops as
rice, maize, wheat, beans, manioc and potatoes.
2.03      These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade. In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural exports depended heavily
on soy products, orange juice, tobacco, cocoa and sugar. In 1970 these five
crops accounted for only 15% of the total agricultural exports of US$2*09
billion. By 1980, they accounted for over 50% of Brazil's US$9.43 billion of
agricultural exports. After 1980, the value of agricultural exports hardly grew
at all, except in 1984, when coffee and orange juice were aided by highly
favorable price movements.
The Rural Northeast
2.04      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara,
Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia, the northern
portion of Minas Gerais, and the island of Fernando de Noronha. The region
covers a total area of over 1.5 million km2 (18% of the country's total area).
2.05      The Northeast has been the nation's foremost problem region since the
late 18009 because of drought, uncertain rainfall, skewed land distribution, and
limited employment opportunities. These problems resulted in high levels of
poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people migrated
from the region, partially in response to a five-year drought (1979-1983). In
1985, the Northeast had a total population of 39 million (about 29% of the
country's total), growing at 2.3% per annum with a population density of 25
inhabitants per square kilometer. Half the population lives in rural areas and
over 50% of the work force is engaged in agriculture. Land ownership is highly
concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms) occupy less than 6% of the
farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms) occupy more than 40% of the farm
area. Rural incomes are low. In 1985, about half of the Northeast rural
population earned one quarter or less of the official minimum wage (about US$600
annually).
2.06      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (cotton, sisal,



- 4 -
cassava and sugar) represent significant shares of national production. The
zona da mata, a narrow, fertile coastal strip, contains one-third of the
regional population and a major proportion of industry and plantation
agriculture. The agreste, a transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas,
is dominated by mixed farming, as well as the raising of cattle. The sparsely
populated, semi-arid sertao, where cattle raising and cotton cultivation are
predominant, is the largest of the subregions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
2.07      Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural Northeast
were limited to drought relief works, emergency programs and incentives for
export crops. The slow pace of socioeconomic development and the need for
improved regional planning led to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency
for tile Development of the Northeast (SUDENE). SUDENE was originally
responsible for coordination of public investment, drought emergency measures
and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private investment.
The initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred to various
Federal agencies in the 1970s, with SUDENE continuing to play an important role
in the coordination of federally funded special rural programs.
2.08      The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The first
was based on the integrated development of selected subregions. It included the
Development Program for Integrated Areas of the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), the
Special Program of Support for the Development of the Semi-Arid Region of the
Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of Support for the Small Sugar
Cane Growers. The second approach was concerned with alleviating the effects of
drought. It included several parallel programs, such as the Water Resources Use
Program (PROHIDRO), the Agricultural Research Program for the Semi-Arid Tropics
and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public
irrigation projects.
2.09      Planning for a major new development initiative began in 1982,
stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate contribution of the first two
approaches in alleviating rural poverty and increasing agricultural production
had been limited. The new initiative is to be implemented through a series of
sectoral projects in such areas as land tenure, federal irrigation, health,
education and integrated rural development. The Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP), simpler in design than previous efforts supported by the Bank,
is a 15-year program which focuses on eliminating key constraints (land tenure
insecurity, drought vulnerability, and limited access to credit and use of
modern technology) on small farmer development. It is based on a comprehensive
regional policy framework, multiyear state rural investment plans and the
integration of all current rural special programs. NRDP regional guidelines
establish unified and streamlined funding and administrative procedures and
mechanisms for increased beneficiary participation and improved institutional
performance.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.10      The Bank has made 41 loans, totalling US$3,268.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one agricultural
credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and marketing reform
loan for US$500.0 million; supplemental financing for US$30.5 million under the



- 5 -
Special Action Program; three loans for US$519.2 million for agroindustries; two
for US$60.5 million for livestock; one for US$18.2 million for grain storage;
two for US$100.0 million for agricultural research; two for US$255.0 million for
agricultural extension; one for US$100.0 million for land tenure improvement;
and 27, totalling US$1,382.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation, and
rural development projects in the Northeast 3/, in Minas Gerais, and in the
North and Northwest.
2.11      Ten of the Bank-financed projects were POLONORDESTE rural development
projects located in eight Northeast states. Approved from 1976 to 1983, three
of the projects are still being executed; the other seven have been
substantially completed. Implementation of all the POLONORDESTE projects
generally improved over the years, especially in project planning and agency
coordination. The combined Project Completion Report for the Rio Grande do
Norte and Sergipe Rural Development Projects (Loans 1195 and 1714-BR) showed
that, despite lower than expected rates of return in both projects, adopting
farmers' incomes increased substantially. However, those two projects, similar
to the others, experienced implementation and disbursement delays, mainly
because of the unusually severe and prolonged 1979-83 drought, delays in
providing local funds, limited execution capacity for carrying out small-scale
irrigation and land activities, and initial lags in the generation of
drought-resistant technology for small farmers. The Completion Report concluded
that fundamental development constraints, such as insecure land tenure or
uncertain water availability, should receive priority trcatment in future
project design and investment. These problems and priorities were addressed
during the preparation of the NRDP.
The Northeast Region of the State of Minas Gerais
2.12      Location and Natural Features.  With a total area of about 587,000 km2
(7% of Brazil), Minas Gerais is the sixth largest state in Brazil. Its
northeast region (Map IBRD 20381), the least developed part of the State, covers
42 municipalities and about 21% of the State's total area. Average annual
rainfall in this region ranges from 600 mm in the northern arid and semi-arid
zone (sertao), with its typical shrub vegetation (caatinga), to 1,000-1,200 mm
in the southern zone, where light forest and shrub vegetation (cerrado) is
predominant (Map IBRD 20382). The wide range of soils found in the region may
be classified from fertile in the Sao Francisco and Rio Verde Grande valleys and
several humid highland patches to relatively infertile in the central plain.
2.13      Economic and Social Conditions.  About 37% of the State's economically
active population of 4.7 million (out of a total population of about 14.0
million) is engaged in agriculture and generates 14% of GDP; 31% is occupied in
industry and contributes 35% to the total State GDP. While the urban population
is growing at an average annual rate of 5%, the rural population is decreasing
at an average rate of 2%. In the 1970-80 period, about one-tenth of the total
population of 1.1 million of the State's northeast region left the area.  This
region, which shows the lowest degree of socioeconomic development in the State,
has mainly benefited from federally-funded special programs such as
POLONORDESTE, SERTANEJO and PROHIDRO (para. 2.08).
3/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank Country
Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development Programs for the
Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



-6-
2.14      Land Use, Tenure and?Production.  About 88% of a total of 125,000
rural families in the State's northeast region earn their livelihood from
agriculture. Tax incentives and credit subsidy policies applied during the
last two decades in this drought-prone region resulted in concentrating land
tenure under large livestock, and reforestation enterprises, increasing the
number of landless, seasonal wage laborers and multiplying areas of social
tension. Farms of less than 100 ha (80% of the total), which occupy 14% of the
total area, account for about half of cotton production and food crops (such as
cassava, beans, maize and rice). Holdings of more than 1,000 ha (2% of the
total) occupy 53% of the total area and account for the major part of livestock
(mostly beef) and forest products. About one-third of a total of 60,600 farms
reportedly lack secure title to their land.
2.15      Agricultural Services.  Because of previous rural investments in Minas
Gerais, there are a number of agencies and a core of trained technicians with
agricultural development and project management experience. The Superintendency
for the Development of the North of Minas Gerais (SUDENOR) of the State's
Secretariat of Planning and General Coordination (SEPLAN-MG) has some
substantial experience in the coordination of all special rural programs in the
region. Land regularization and redistribution, public irrigation and
settlement activities are entrusted to the Rural Development Foundation
(RURALMINAS), an agency linked to the State Secretariat of Agriculture
(SEAG-MG), which was the efficient coordinator of early rural development
projects in the State and is currently responsible for the implementation of
four ongoing settlement projects in the region. The State's Agricultural
Research Company (EPAMIG) operates one regional office and three field stations
in the region, and runs the Marketing Information Service (SIMA). Agricultural
extension is the responsibility of the State's Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company (EMATER-MG) through a network of two regional and 36 local
(municipal) offices. Successful extension has been hampered by inadequate
planning, supervision and training of local extension agents. The State
Secretariat of Labor and Social Action (SETAS-MG) is providing successful
assistance to rural communities. The State Sanitation Company (COPASA) is
responsible for domestic water supply. Five major public banks (the Bank of
Brazil, the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil, the State Bank of Minas Gerais, the
Credit Bank of Minas Gerais and the Savings Bank of Minas Gerais) provide credit
to farmers through a generally adequate branch network. However, demand for
official credit is far greater than supply. The Federal Food Company (COBAL) is
active in food wholesaling and retailing in rural and urban areas. The State's
Agricultural Trade Company (CAMIG) provides some input supply and storage
services throughout the region, but is generally not as efficient as the private
sector and some cooperatives. Public agricultural marketing is handled by the
Minas Gerais State Food Supply Center (CEASA-MG). Finally, the Joao Pinheiro
Foundation (FJP) and the Federal University of Vicosa (UFV) conduct studies and
evaluations of various Government programs and are well known throughout the
country.
2.16      Rural Development in Minas Gerais and Previous Bank Participation.
The increase in rural out-migration, coupled with the worsening situation in the
agricultural sector during the last decade, has focused more of the State
Government's attention on small farmers. The Bank has assisted the State-
financed rural development activities through two loans: (a) in 1977-1984, with
a loan of US$42.0 million, the First Rural Development Project (PRODEMATA, Loan
1362-BR), located in the Zona da Mata region; and (b) since 1980, with a loan of
US$63.0 million, the Second Rural Development Project-MG II (Loan 1877-BR),
which covers 102 municipalities, five of which are located in the Northeast
Region. Most project targets (including those for rural credit) were



- 7 -
successfully achieved under the PRODEMATA project in spite of a curtailment of
state coupterpart funding in the later years. P.owever, the implementation of
the Sec3nd Rural Development Project has been severely hampered since its
inception by a chronic shortage in state counterpart funds and federal rural
credit resources. In 1986, the loan closing date was extended by one year to
December 31, 1986; a revised set of reduced targets was agreed; and some US$30
million of Loan funds were cancelled. A further extension by one year of the
closing date is being processed. The proposed project has been designed so
that actions in the five municipalities already covered by the Second Rural
Development Project would be limited to new components not financed under the
ongoing project.
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Origin
3.01      The Bank's lending strategy in Brazil aims to promote and assist
structural reform, to develop and maintain essential infrastructure, and to
improve productivity and living conditions of the rural and urban poor. The
Government of Brazil attaches high priority to decreasing regional disparities.
Incomes in Northeast rural areas are less than 35% of the national wverageo The
NRDP, of which the proposed project is a part, forms a central part of the
Government's investment strategy to narrow the gap between the Northeast region
and the rest of the country and to alleviate rural poverty.
3.02      In August 1982, the Government asked the Bank to assist SUDENE in
preparing the NRDP which is composed of ten state projects and a regional land
tenure improvement project. In April 1985, the Bank approved the Northeast
Rural Development Projects for the States of Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte
(Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR, respectively). In addition to supporting the
Sergipe Rural Development Plan, the first project established the structure and
operating procedures for regional program planning, coordination and research to
support all ten Northeast State rural development plans. In June 1985, the Bank
approved the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR)
which finances cadastral activities in all ten Northeastern states (Map IBRD
1868BR). The NRDP project for the State of Pernambuco was approved in June
1986, and projects for the States of Bahia, Piaui and Ceara were approved in
October 1986. Projects for the three remaining States (Maranhao, Alagoas and
Paraiba) are being presented to the Executive Directors simultaneously with the
proposed project. While it is still early on in the implementation of the NRDP,
initial experiences, particularly with respect to federal and regional
management, counterpart funding, and beneficiary participation are encouraging.
3.03    The project was appra.ssed by the Bank In December 1986, and negotiations
took place in Washington in April/May, 1987. The Brazilian delegation was led
by Ms. Stael Martins Baltar of the Federal Ministry of Finance.
Project Area
3.04      All of the 42 municipalities of the northeast region of the State
would be included in the proposed project. Thirteen of these municipalities
would be subject to cadastral and land redistribution activities under the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and would,



- 8 -
therefore, constitute the area of intensive project action including public
irrigation, intensified extension, credit and marketing services for the bene-
ficiaries from the regional land tenure project. The remaining 29 municipali-
ties would receive more extensive support limited to community development and
some extension and credit for existing small landowners.
Amerindian Protection and Resettiement of non-Amerindian Population
3.05      The muncipality of Itacarambi includes the only Amerindian reservation
in the project area. This reservation, demarcated in 1979, covers 46,500 ha
where 4,500 Xakriaba Amerindians live, distributed among 15 villages. A legal
procedure was initiated by the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) in March 1985
for the recovery of land occupied by 109 non-Indian families inhabiting the
reservation. From November 1986 to February 1987, increased pressure from the
Indians forced these families to leave the reservation. They have since been
indemnified by the state authorities and resettled in urban lots in the
municipality of Itacarambi. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments provided assurances that they would: (i) monitor and review the
resettlement of former and any future non-Indian squatter families in the
Xakriaba Reservation; and (ii) promply take all reasonable measures for the
resolution of any new conflicts or problems disclosed by such monitoring and
review (para 4.02 (a).
Project Objectives and Description
3.06      The main objectives of the proposed project would be to:  (a) increase
agricultural productivity and production in the Northeast Region of the State of
Minas Gerais; (b) generate employment opportunities for low-income rural
families; and (c) promote water resource development and technology generation
and diffusion to decrease small farmers' vulnerability to recurring droughts;
(d) increase community participation in all phases of the development process;
and (e) strengthen the State of Minas Gerais' capacity to provide efficient
agricultural services to small farmers. The project would directly benefit an
estimated 38,000 small farm families. A larger number (50,000) of rural
families would benefit from the community development component. The project
components are described briefly below (with, in parentheses, the relative
percentages of total project costs) and in Annex 1.
3.07      Water Resource Development (20%).  This component would include:
(a) construction of two state-managed irrigation schemes totalling 2,940 ha of
irrigated land and benefiting about 750 farm families; (b) studies to support
the development of the State's irrigation plan and the preparation of irrigation
projects (9,000 ha) for implementation under future projects; (c) construction
or rehabilitation of 170 simple water supply systems, benefiting a total of
about 12,000 families in small rural communities; and (d) strengthening of
RURALMINAS' Water Resource Department. In addition, about 5,000 ha of private
irrigation, benefiting about 2,500 farms, would be financed under the rural
investment credit component (para. 3.10). There would not be any involuntary
resettlement under the public irrigation subcomponent, which would include only
river pumping schemes. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that a
Technical Coordinating Unit (TCU) comprising one coordinator and eight
technicians has been set up within the Water Resource Department of RURALMINAS
to monitor the state public irrigation program (para 4.04 (a).



-9 -
During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that the staffing
of the TCU would be maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.03 (a)). It would be a condition of disbursement for any loan proceeds
allocated to finance the construction of each public irrigation scheme that, the
Bank has received proof of land acquisition and satisfactory detailed
engineering designs and settlement plan (para 4.05 (a)). Any loan proceeds so
allocated, which are not committed within two years of loan signing to a
specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled
(para. 4.06).
3.08      Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production (5%).  Research would
be directed toward simple technologies to make farming systems more productive
and would include: (a) 13 agroecological and natural resources studies to
assist in future research planning; (b) 160 short- and medium-term applied
research trials at experiment stations to improve existing production
technology; (c) 160 farm-level simple observation units and 16 observation farms
to test and adapt integrated farm production technology; and (d) yearly
production of about 45 tons of basic seeds for multiplication; and (e) improved
breeding stock for cattle and goats. EPAMIG would develop its adaptive research
program in cooperation with both farmers and extension officers and evaluate the
technical and econoiic results from its farm-level observation units.  EPAMIG
would sell basic seeds to cooperatives for multiplication and processing; they
would then be marketed through their existing network.
3.09      Rural Extension (23%).  This component would include:  (a) civil
works, office equipment and furniture for 19 EMATER-MG local offices; (b)
establishment and maintenance of about 340 demonstration plots, including about
30 units under the Cotton Pest Control program and 5 pilot areas (small valleys)
for demonstration of soil and water conservation practices; (c) salaries and
related operating costs, on a declining basis, for up to 180 agricultural and
social extension agents, about 30 subject-matter specialists, 30 supervisory
personnel, and related administrative staff; (d) production of half a million
tree seedlings for farmers to plant for fodder, fuelwood and fruit trees; and
(e) equipment and materials for a cotton pest control program. EMATER-MG would,
through its farmer groups' visits and demonstration plots, encourage adoption of
simple, proven practices that would improve crop yields, preserve soil
fertility, expand the cultivated area and increase livestock production.
Specialists from the Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension (EMBRATER) would supervise EMATER-MG activities at least once a
month. The Superintendency for Agriculture and Livestock within SEAG-MG
(SUPAGRO) would be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the State
Cotton Pest Control Program which would be implemented by EMATER-MG with
assistance from EPAMIG. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that: (a) SUPAGRO would ensure that the extension and research annual
work programs meet the requirements of the Ministry of Agriculture National
Program for the Control of the Cotton Pest; and (b) EMATER-MG, prior to the
establishment of any soil/water conservation demonstration area, would provide
the Bank with a satisfactory feasibility study, including economic and financial
justifications of the proposed level of investments (para. 4.03 (b)).



- 10 -
3.10      Rural Credit (29%).  The project would finance medium- and long-term
credit for on-farm investments for 12,000 farmers (about 31% of the 38,000
direct beneficiaries). A greater number would receive short-term production
credit to be financed by participating banks (para. 2.15). Farmers would
contribute their own labor to on-farm investments. However, because of farmers'
limited savings, financing would cover up to 100% of the cost of goods required
for on-farm investments, with a maximum repayment period of twelve years and a
maximum grace period of three years. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes
larger than 4 ha and automobiles would not be eligible. Financing would not
exceed ceilings established for the NRDP credit program in the Central Bank's
Manual for Rural Credit for individual farmers; farmers' associations and
cooperatives would also be eligible, provided that at least 70% of their members
are small farmers who would directly benefit from the investments.
3.11      Recently, new official rural credit terms were established for
Northeast Brazil. Under those terms, the interest rate for rural investment
credit charged to Northeast farmers (excluding those cultivating sugar-cane
cocoa, rubber, and coffee who would be charged a higher rate) would be 3% per
annum, with full monetary correction based on the monthly variation of the value
of National Treasury Bonds (Obrigacoes do Tesouro Nacional, OTNs). This
compares with an interest rate of 6% per annum with full monetary correction on
official rural investment credit for all farmers outside of the North and
Northeast. To provide low-income small farmers with a strong incentive to
invest in the project's technical packages, project beneficiaries would have a
portion of their first investment loan rebated as a grant. The percentage of
the grant would be: 50% for investment loans approved from March 1, 1987 to
December 31, 1988; 40% for the period January 1, 1989 to December 31, 1989; and
30% from January 1, 1990 onwards. The rebate would occur at the time the loan
funds were released to the farmer. While still presenting a significant
subsidy, the new terms would have several advantages over previous NRDP credit
arrangements which resulted in large subsidies due to the partial or total
absence of monetary correction on the principal of the loan. Under the new
agreement, the total amount of subsidy would be known and tudgetted in advance
as part of the annual NRDP allocation in the federal fiscal budget. Also,
long-standing practice of providing credit subsidies through the use of partial
monetary correction would be eliminated, paving the way for future improvements
in the official rural credit system.
3.12      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions recently agreed
with the Bank; (b) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component; (c)
each of the participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and
SUDENOR on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank agency;
and (d) priority would be given by the participating banks to allocations, from
their own resources, of short-term production credit to their agencies serving
the project area in amounts adequate to finance the working capital requirements
of project beneficiaries (para. 4.01(a)).
3.13      Marketing Services (1%).  This component is designed to increase
farmers' knowledge of product grading, markets and prices, and improve the



- 11 -
storage and marketing of agricultural products. The. project would include: (a)
expanding the marketing information service; (b) equipping threo mobile units
for grading and classification of small farmers' production; and (c)
complementing the cooperatives' storage network with twelve 500-ton units.
Ongoing crop-purchasing schemes grouped under the Marketing Fund would continue
with Government support, The additional storage units, complemented where
justified with drying and milling equipment, would help the cooperatives assist
project beneficiaries in processing, storing and marketing small farmers'
surpluses. Receipt by the Bank of respective satisfactory feasibility studies
and draft agreements between SUDENOR and the cooperatives iwolved would be
conditions of disbursement for any loan proceeds to finance the construction and
equipment of additional storage facilities (para. 4.05(b).
3.14      Support to Small Rural Communities (162).  The objective of this
component is to help formal and informa-f -groups of farmers participate in the
development of their communities. The component would include: (a) creation of
a community development (CD) fund of about US$14.6 million to make grants for
local subprojects; (b) purchase of office equipment; and (c) training and other
operating costs for about 24 community development agents. SUDENOR would
administer the fund and SETAS-MG would implement the component. Farmers' groups
would identify, plan and execute subprojects that would finance economic
activities (such as fish ponds, cottage industries), community infrastructure
(such as laundry facilities, small irrigation and drainage schemes and storage
facilities), and related training for community leaders. Written proposals
explaining objectives, bonefits, Implementation methodology, and cost-sharing
would be subject to Municipal Councils' approval. During negotiations, the
State Government provided assurances that: (a) the CD fund would be established
and maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) no funds
would be released to beneficiary groups, prior to the signing of the agreement
between SUDENOR and the groups, or municipalities for unregistered groups; and
(c) by March 31, 1989, the Bank and SUDENOR would review economic subprojects
performance to establish the feasibility of carrying out further funding of
subprojects on a loan basis (para. 4.03 (c)).
3.15      Prolect Administration and Training (6X).  SUDENOR would be respons-
ible for administering, coordinatirg and integrating all federally-funded rural
programs under the project. All project-related training would be centrally
coordinated by SUDENOR. The training program would include management and
technical training for executing agency staff as well as training of farmers in
all services provided under the project. The project would help reorganize and
strengthen SUDENOR's planning and administrative capabilities by financing
salaries and related expenses for an additional 21 staff, and complementary
office equipment, travel expenses, and other operating costs for SUDENOR staff
distributed between the headquarters, the regional and the four subregional
offices. The satisfactory strengthening of SUDENOR would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 4.04 (b)). During negotiations, the State Government
provided assurances that the satisfactory staffing of SUDENOR would be
maintained (para. 4.03 (d)).
Land Tenure Improvement
3.16      Land tenure improvement, through the provision of land titles or
formal usufruct rights to small farmers, is essential to the success of the
proposed project and would provide small farmers with access to institution-



- 12 -
alized investment credit. Land regularization and redistribution in the 13
priority municipalities would result from the cadastral activities carried out
under the regional land project. Redistribution targets, procedures for land
acquisition, allotment, and selection of beneficiaries were agreed upon as
conditions for the regional land project. Land project implementation has been
delayed due to organizational changes within INCRA and the Ministry of Agrarian
Reform and Development (MIRAD). The Bank, INCRA and other involved Ministries
recently agreed on the measures needed to improve project implementation. They
agreed on implementation strategies, revised targets based on a two-year loan
extension to be approved one year at a time based on satisfactory project
performance, new management arrangements, and several amendments to the
project's legal documents. However, project objectives and overall targets did
not change. The reaching of these targets by 1990 would secure access to land
and credit for those project beneficiaries who are currently landless. The
Government has recently signed these legal amendments to the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project, and project implementation is expected to
accelerate in the coming months. During negotiations, the Federal and State
Governments prov'ided assurances that in the project priority areas: (a) at
least 89,000 ha would be available for redistribution to project beneficiaries
by March 31, 1989; and (b) at least an additional 93,000 ha would be available
by March 31, 1990 (para. 4.02 (b)).
Project Organizationi and Implementation
3.17      Federal and Regional Levels.  An Interministerial Commission (IC),
chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior (MINTER) and
comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Land
Reform, Agriculture and Irrigation, and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has
overall policy planning responsibility for the NRDP. As regional coordinator of
the NRDP, SUDENE's Directorate for the Program of Support to Small Farmers
receives policy backing from a regional Rural Development Courcil (RDC), which
meets once a month and includes representatives of federal agencies, the ten
Northeastern states, and beneficiary groups.
3.18      State and Local Levels.  A State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor, with the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary
and up to three other State Secretaries as members, would provide overall
guidance for project-supported rural development activities. A State Coordinat-
ing Commission (SCC), composed of the SUDENOR Superintendent and representatives
of all executing agencies would ensure proper implementation of SRDC guidelines
and integration of project activities. Day-to-day project implementation would
be carried out by the executing agencies and coordinated by SUDENOR. The Bank
has been provided with evidence that the planning, budgeting, staffing and
administration of all current federally-funded rural programs in the Northeast
region of Minas Gerais have been unified under the coordination of SUDENOR.
3.19      Annual Planning and Budgeting.  Targets and costs established at
appraisal would be adjusted annually during the project implementation period.
Once the Federal Government has established cverall funding availability for the
NRDP for the next year, state allocations would be established by SUDENE in
consultation with the RDC. SUDENOR would consolidate each executing agency's
detailed annual operating plan, ensure internal consistency and then submit them
to SRDC and SUDENE for approval. SUDENE would consolidate state plans into a
regional operating plan, to be presented to the RDC and IC as the basis for the



- 13 -
administrative regulation (portaria) signed by the various Ministers involved
and legally establishing budget allocations for each State. During negotia-
tions, the Federal Government provided assurances that: (a) the regional
operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank for comment prior to
approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional operating plan and the State of
Minas Gerais' operating plan would be sent to the Bank no later than the first
working day of each project fiscal year; and (c) any proposed changes in
planning and budgeting procedures would be submitted to the Bank for comment
prior to enactment (para. 4.01 (b)).
3.20      Accounts and Auditing.  Each participating agency, including the
Central Bank and the participating banks, would maintain separate accounts for
project expenditures, to be audited annually by private or public auditors
acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments
provided assurances that: (a) the Special Account (para 3.29), the investment
credit accounts and the project accounts would be maintained and audited
annually according to practices satisfactory to the Bank; (b) terms of reference
for the auditors would include, inter alia, verification of the Statements of
Expenditure for the project accounts; and (c) copies of the three audit reports
would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each project fiscal
year (para. 4.02 (c)).
3.21      Operating Agreements.  Agreements among project coordinating and
executing agencies would be entered into between: (a) the State, through
SUDENOR, and the federal agencies; (b) executing agencies, with the participa-
tion of SUDENOR, when more than one is involved in executing a project com-
ponent; (c) the State, through SUDENOR, and the concerned municipality or
group prior to implementing each community subproject; and (d) the State,
through SUDENOR, and the concerned cooperative, prior to constructing each
additional storage unit. These agreements would include execution guidelines
and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for inter-agency collaboration
and funding conditions linked to performance criteria. During negotiations, the
Federal and State Governments provided assurances that they would enter into all
necessary agreements referred to in (a) and (b) above not later than six months
after loan signing (para. 4.02 (d)).
3.22      Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
have simplified reporting requirements and would aim at providing accurate and
timely information for project management and annual planning. SUDENOR would
receive monthly reports from executing agencies on key physical and financial
indicators, produce quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries and be respon-
sible for the ongoing evaluation. The Joao Pinheiro Foundation (FJP) would be
responsible for the final evaluation of the project. During negotiations, the
State Government provided assurances that: (a) quarterly monitoring reports
would be sent to the Bank no later than three months after the end of the
respective fiscal quarter; and (b) terms of reference and institutional
arrangements for evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.03 (e)).
Project Cost
3.23      Total project costs are estimated at US$113.5 million with a foreign
exchange component of approximately US$16.2 million, or about 14% (see Loan and
Project Summary). The total cost is based on the assumption that all goods and
services would be acquired in Brazil, with the exception of some specialized



- 14 -
consultants' services. The cost estimate includes about US$3.4 million
equivalent in applicable local taxes. Physical and price contingencies are
equivalent to 2% and 5% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies
were added to baseline costs at 15% for irrigation and water supply construc-
tion; 10% for other construction and contracted services; and 5% for equipment
and furniture. Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar terms, based on
international inflation rates estimated at 3% for 1987, 1% for 1988 to 1990, and
3.5% p.a. thereafter. It was assumed that periodic currency adjustments,
estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences
between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
r
3.24      The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$55.0 million
equivalent, which would represent 50% of total estimated cost, net of taxes.
The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign exchange
costs and 40% of local costs. The loan would be repayable over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace and would bear interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate. The loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil,
which would carry the foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as
necessary to complete the project. Budgeting procedures would be those
described in para. 3.19. Funds would be channeled from the Treasury through the
Ministry of the Interior and SUDENE to either a specific project account in the
state for activities executed by state agencies, or directly to federal
executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government counterpart funds would also
be made through the Central Bank to cover the estimated Bank share of monthly
expenditures. During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that the administrative regulation (portaria) establishing these funding
procedures would not be changed without Bank approval (para. 4.01 (c)).
3.25      In August 1986, the Bank and the Government reached an agreement that
has improved the timeliness and adequacy of counterpart funds. This agreement
includes: (a) the provision in the annual Federal Budget of the full amount
required for the execution of all the northeast rural development projects; (b)
the monthly release of these resources in accordance with schedules and amounts
agreed upon with the Bank; and (c) the simplification of procedures for
channeling the released funds to the project executing units. As a result of
this agreement counterpart funding has been and continues to be satisfactory.
Procurement
3.26      Civil works estimated at US$12.0 million, would be executed by
contracts awarded through local competitive bidding procedures, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry
that is capable of carrying out project works. As individual construction works
are small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested,
but would not be excluded from bidding. Some community development civil works
(para. 3.12) would be carried out by the beneficiaries under written agreements
with SUDENOR. Equipment and materials required by the project, estimated at
US$7.9 million, would be procured by the several executing agencies at various
locations over the project implementation period, in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Vehicles and
microcomputers required by the project (amounting to US$2.9 million), as
reserved procurement items, are not included in the project costs and are not



- 15 -
financed by the proposed loan. During negotiations, the State Government would
provide assurances that those items would be procured in a timely manner
(para.4.03(f)). Civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$250,000
and goods and services contracts for more than US$100,000 would be subject to
prior Bank review of procurement documentation (about 70% and 40% of the value
of civil works. and goods and services, respectively). Consultants' services,
mainly for feasibility studies (future irrigation projects), totalling some 23
man-years equivalent, would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments provided assurances that
they would follow the procurement arrangements outlined above and summarized in
the following table (para. 4.02 (e)).
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method             Total
Category                          LCB         other         N.A.          Cost
--    -- (US$ million)
Civil Works                    12.0( 7.8)                               12.0( 7.8)
Equipment and Materials         7.9( 4.5)                                7.9( 4.5)
Studies and Training                         3.8(1.6)                    3.8( 1.6)
Rural Investment Credit                                  32.9(16.4)    32.9(16.4)
Community Subprojects                                     14.6(10.2)    14.6(10.2)
Salaries and Allowances                                  31.4(10.8)    31.4(10.8)
Other Operating Expenses             _      _ ____        10.9( 3.7)    10.9( 3.7)
Total                   19.9(12.3)-  3.8(1.6)    89.8(41.1)  1T3.5(5T.3Uy
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Disbursements
3.27      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed throughout the
eight and one-half year disbursement period at a rate of 70% against project
expenditures for water resource development and support to small communities,
and at a rate of 50% against expenditures for marketing and credit. Disburse-
ments for the remaining components, which have a high share of recurrent costs,
would be made at a rate of 50% of project expenditures until aggregate amounts
of US$0.9 million for agricultural research, US$4.2 million for extension and
US$1.1 million for administration and training have been disbursed. Thereafter,
disbursements for those categories would be made at a rate of 30% of project
expenditures until aggregate amounts of US$1.2 million for agricultural
research, US$5.8 million for extension and US$1.4 million for administration and
training have been disbursed; the remaining funds for these categories would be
disbursed at 10X of expenditures. To enable project executing agencies to
prepare for an early start of project execution, project expenditures (except
agricultural credit) incurred prior to loan signing, but after December 18, 1986
(end of project appraisal), would be eligible for reimbursement up to about
US$2.6 million equivalent. No disbursements, however, would be made for the
extension, domestic water supply and support to small rural communities
components in the five municipalities of the Northeast region covered by the
ongoing project until funds allocated for those components under Loan 1877-BR



- 16 -
have been fully committed or cancelled (para 4.07). Disbursement projections
reflect the disbursement profile for previous rural development projects in
Brazil.
3.28      Disbursements for all investment, operating and technical assistance
expenses under US$250,000 would be made under Statements of Expenditure prepared
by the various executing agencies and certified by SUDENOR. Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be made available
during project supervision. Standard documentation for contracts exceeding
US$250,000 would be submitted to the Bank. To reduce Government prefinancing
requirements, a Special Account would be opened and thereafter maintained in US
dollars in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$2.5 million.
Withdrawals in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by Statements of
Expenditure and other requlired3documentation, would be made at the exchange rate
that prevailed on the date of the expenditure.
Project Benefits and Justification
3.29      Production, Benefits and Farms Incomes.  The impact of the project on
agricultural production would result from increased productivity (through better
cultivation practices, including pest and disease control, increased use of
animal traction, and irrigation), crop diversification, and expansion of the
cropped area. The annual value of incremental marketable production at full
development is estimated to be US$38 million, at September 1986 farmgate
prices. Approximately 64% of thin amount would come from crops and 36% from
livestock products. This is not expected to lead to marketing constraints as
the Northeast Region of Minas Gerais' present production, with the exception of
cotton and beef, does not meet demand. Production surpluses would be marketed
through existing public and private channels. Improved water supply systems and
community activities would also provide substantial benefits to the population,
off-farm work, currently vary between US$100 and US$300 per capita, would
increase, at full development, to a range between US$280 and US$600, in constant
terms.
3.30      Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact.  Although it is not Government policy
to obtain full cost recovery on rural programs for low-income families, current
legislation allows RURALMINAS to recover 100% of operation and maintenance costs
based on a volumetric annual charge for water, and 100% of public investments in
common irrigation and drainage infrastructure based on a per hectare charge over
a 50-year period. The initial investment is revalued, but without charging
interest.4'/ The municipalities would cover the costs of operation and
maintenance of the water supply services until the Northeast Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Program begins in 1989; at that stage, consumers would be
expected to pay for the service. During negotiations, the State Government
provided assurances that: (a) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation
schemes would be implemented in accordance with Government legislation
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) drinking water supply charges covering full
operation and maintenance costs would begin to be charged to consumers in 1989
(para. 4.03 (g)).
3.31      Additional recurrent costs to the Government of about US$2.0 million
annually to sustain the project following the investment period are expected to
be offset by additional fiscal revenues of about US$4.0 million annually
4/ For further clarification on cost recovery of irrigation projects, see
Brazil: Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation Project, Staff Appraisal
Report (Report No. 5975-BR), dated May 12, 1986.



- 17 -
generated by the value-added tax on product circulation (ICM) that would apply
to the incremental marketable production.
3.32      Economic Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the project has
been estimated at 13%.  The cost and benefit streams are detailed in Annex 3.
Sensitivity tests show that, when project benefits fall by 18X or project costs
rise by over 22%, the rate of return falls below the 11% opportunity cost of
capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits, such as might
occur during a severe drought, would result in a 10% rate of return.
Project Risks
3.33      Although projects under NRDP are simpler in design than previous rural
development projects, efficient delivery of projqct services and
interinstitutional cooperation would still be important for project success.
The project includes improved monitoring and evaluation to foster a more
efficient institutional environment. Delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding and rural credit could decrease the proposed project's impact. Recent
changes in funding procedures, the merging of the rural special programs, the
regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development Program, of which the project
is a part, and the broad support which the program enjoys among Government and
local leaders should help the project receive adequate funding.  At the farm
level, the security of land tenure is still a problem; implementation of the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) and the
Government's agrarian reform should help minimize this risk. Many farmers are
dependent on cotton as a main cash crop, and as such are vulnerable to pest
outbreaks. The project has been designed to minimize this risk by increasing
the focus on pest and disease control, on crop diversification through
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances that:
(a)  for rural credit: (i) lending terms and conditions would be those
recently agreed between the Bank and the Government; (ii) the Central
Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating banks to
carry out the project's investment credit component; (iii) each of the
participating banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and
SUDENOR on investment credit availability, demand and lending per bank
agency; and (iv) priority would be given by the participating banks to
allocations, from their own resources, of short-term production credit
to their agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to
finance the working capital requirements of project beneficiaries
(para. 3.12).
(b) (i) the regional operating plan would be sent each year to the Bank
for comment prior to approval; (ii) the portaria, the final regional
operating plan and the State of Minas Gerais' operating plan would be
sent to the Bank no later than the first working day of each project
fiscal year; and (iii) proposed changes in planning and budgeting
procedures would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to
enactment (para 3.19);



- 18 -
(c) the administrstive regulation (portaria) establishing the current
funding procedures would not be changed without Bank approval (para.
3.24); and
4.02      During negotiations, the Federal and the State Governments provided
assurances that:
(a) (i) they would monitor and review the implementation of the
resettlement of former and any future non-Indian squatter families in
the Xakriaba Reservation; and (ii) promptly take all reasonable
measures for the resolution of any new conflicts or problems disclosed
by such monitoring and reviEw (para 3.05);
(b) at least 89,000 ha by March 31, 1989, and at least an additional
93,000 ha'by March 31, 1990, would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the priority areas (para 3.16);
(c) (i) the Special Account, the investment credit accounts and the
project accounts would be maintained and audited annually according to
practices satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) terms of reference for
the auditors would Include, inter alia, verification of the Statements
of Expenditures for the project accouxits; and (iii) copies of the
three audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.20);
(d) all necessary operating agreements would be entered into no later than
six months after loan signature (para. 3.21); and
(e) procurement procedures would be as specified in para. 3.26.
4.03      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances that:
(a)  satisfactory staffing of the TCU within RURAIXINAS' Water Resource
Department would be maintained (para 3.07);
(b) (i) SUPAGRO would coordinate with the Ministry of Agriculture to
ensure that the extension and research annual work programs meet the
requirements of the National Program for the Control of the Cotton
Pest (para 3.09); and (ii) EMATER-MG would provide the Bank with a
satisfactory feasibility study, prior to the establishment of each
soil/water conservation demonstration unit (para. 3.09).
(c) (i) the community development fund would be established and maintained
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) no funds
would be released prior to a written agreement between SUDENOR and the
groups or municipalities; and (iii) by March 31, 1989, the Bank and
SUDENOR would review performance of the grants for economic
subprojects to establish the feasibility of carrying out further
community fund operations on a loan basis (para. 3.14);
(d) the satisfactory staffing of SUDENOR would be maintained (para. 3.15);
(e) (i) quarterly monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no later



- 19 -
than three months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; and
(ii) terms of reference and institutional arrangements for evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.22);
(f) the vehicles and microcomputers necessary for project implementation
would be procured in a timely manner (para. 3.26); and
(g) (i) cost recovery provisions for public irrigation schemes would be
implemented in accordance with Government legislation; and (ii)
drinking water supply charges covering full operation and maintenance
costs would begin to be charged to consumers in 1989 (para. 3.30).
4.04      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)  the setting up, within the Water Resource Department of RURALMINAS, of
a satisfactory Technical Coordinating Unit (TCU) to monitor the state
public irrigation program (para. 3.07); and
(b) the satisfactory strengthening of SUDENOR (para. 3.15).
4.05      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) for the construction of each public irrigation scheme the receipt by
the Bank of proof of land acquisition and satisfactory engineering
designs and settlement plan (para. 3.07); and
(b) for the construction and equipment of each additional storage unit,
the receipt by the Bank of satisfactory feasibility study and draft
agreement between SUDENOR and the cooperative involved (para. 3.13).
4.06      Any loan proceeds allocated for the contruction of public irrigation
subprojects, which are not committed within two years of loan signing to a
specific public irrigation scheme approved by the Bank, would be cancelled
(para. 3.07).
4.07      No disbursements would be made for the extension, domestic water
supply and support to small rural communities components in the five
municipalities included in the ongoing Second Rural Development Project until
funds allocated for those components under Loan 1877-BR have been fully
committed or cancelled (para. 3.27).
4.08      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for Bank loan of US$55.0 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3-year grace period.
May 26, 1987



-20-                             ANNEX I
Page I
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DZVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
Project Description
A. Land Tenure and Agricultural Production
1.        About 80% of Minas Gerais Northeast Region's 60,600 farms are smaller
than 100 ha, hilt they account for only 14% of the total farm areas Furthermore,
about 45% of the small farms (less than 100 ha) are worked by farmers without
legal title to their land (Table 1.1). More than half of the small farmers
operate rainfed farms that are smaller than 20 ha.  Small farms are, however,
responsible for about half of the region's basic food crops (rice, maize, beans
and cassava) and cotton production.
2.        Minas Gerais Northeast Region has an overall deficit of basic food
products such as rice, beans, maize, and milk. It is a net exporter of cotton,
cassava and beef. In 1982, the region's gross agricultulral product was
distributed as follows: 32% for crop production, 56% for livestock production
and 12% for extractive products (Table 1.2).
B. Project Area
3.        The project would cover the 42 municipalities of the Northeast Region
of Minas Gerais under SUDENE jurisdiction, with, however, an emphasis on 13
municipalities that were selected as priority areas benefiting from the land
cadastral and regularization activities financed under the Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project (Loan 2593-BR) as shown on Map IBRD 18686. These
municipalities would receive intensive project action including public
irrigation, intensified extension, credit and marketing services for the
beneficiaries from the regional land tenure project,. while the remaining 29
would receive a more extensive support limited to community development and some
extension and credit for existing landowners (Tables 1.3 and 1.4 and Map IBRD
20381).
C. Detailed Features of Project Components
Water Resource Development
4.        The state-managed public irrigation activities would include the
construction of the following two schemes: a large one, Vereda Grande (to be
implemented in three stages totalling 2,800 ha), and a small one, Jose Custodio
(140 ha). In the two schemes, totalling 2,940 ha, some 750 farm families would
benefit.  In addition, about 5,000 ha of private irrigation financed under the
rural investment credit component is expected to benefit about 2,500 farm
families.
5.        The Water Resource Department of RURALMINAS would be responsible for
the execution of the public irrigation subcomponent.. A Technical Coordinating



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
Unit (TCU) of nine members would be created within this Department and would be
responsible for planning and coordinating irrigation and settlement activities,
preparing engineering designs and settlemenm plans, carrying out civil works
(usually by contractors), supervising, executing settlement plans, managing the
irrigation schemes until their emancipation, collecting water charges and
providing technical assistance to farmers in hydro-agronomic practices.
EMATER-MG would be responsible for all agronomic technical assistance to farmers
in public irrigated perimeters as well as those undertaking private irrigation.
6.        The planning and execution of the irrigation subprojects would be
subject to the following condilions: (a) receipt by the Bank of the proof of
acquisition of the land required for the irrigation schemes; And (b) Bank
approval of detailed engineering designs, and settlement plans (para 4.05 (a)).
Cost recovery through water tariffs would be implemented in accordance with
Government legislation. Satisfactory staffing of the TCU would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
7.        Collective investment costs, including detailed engineering, pumping
stations, power line, canals and drains, pipelines, access road and internal
track network range from US$1,890 per ha for Jose Custodio to US$4,735 per ha
for Vereda Grande (including US$1,080 per ha for housing and collective
agricultural infrastructure). On-farm investments, financed under the credit
component, including land clearing, urrooting, fencing, sprinklers, draft animal
and agricultural equipment average US$765 per irrigated hectare.
8.        The public irrigation subcomponent would also finance identification
and preparation by consultants, under RIURALMINAS' TCU supervision, of future
projects for the second phase of the NRDP as follows: feasibility studies for
9,000 ha and detailed engineering designs for 3,000 ha of irrigated land.
9.        The domestic water supply subcomponent would consist of the
construction of: 90 simple water supply systems with bore-holed wells, and the
rehabilitation of 80 water supply systems that have stopped functioning or need
repairs. This subcomponent would benefit some 12,000 families. It is expected
to be financed for the first two years only as this action would later be funded
by the Bank-assisted Northeast Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (NRWSS) Project
that is currently under preparation. Each simple water supply system would
include a deep well, pumping equipment, a transmission line, a storage tank,
laundry facilities and one or more standpipes that would serve from 40 to 80
families. Water supply systems would be designed for an average flow of 30
liters per capita per day; the per capita investment costs are estimated to vary
from US$45 for the new bore-holed wells to US$16.5 for the rehabilitated ones.
10.       COPASA-MG would be responsible for the implementation of the
subcomponent, including planning, civil works supervision, and monitoring. The
construction of the water supply systems would be carried out small contractors
under the supervision of COPASA-MG. Selection criteria for communities would
include village size, per capita investment costs, location (preference would be
given to areas where the population density is highest) and community
willingness to gradually assume responsibility for operation and maintenance.
During a transition period until the NRWSS becomes effective, the municipalities
and the State would assist the communities in meeting operating expenses.



-22-                            ANNEX 1
Page 3
COPASA-MG would dlscuse the location of the wells and standpipes with the
recipients and the muicipal authorities before installation of the systems; it
would also provide technical backstopping and training to the community.
Agricultural Research and Baslc Seed Production
11.       The state research program has developed during the past ten years and
will continue to develop technical recommendations to improve agricultural
productivity. However, there is a recognized need to redirect their research
program towards improved adaptation of technology (including pest control
programs, for cotton in particular) and crop diversification to make small
farmers more resistant to drought cycles. The project would finance four
specific activities: (a) thirteen natural resource studies, to be completed
within the first five years of the project, to assist in future research
planning; (b) about 160 short-term applied research trials to be carried out at
experiment stations to improve production technology; (c) installation of about
160 farm-level simple observation units and close monitoring of 16 observation
farms to test improved technology using farmer participation; (d) yearly
production of about 45 tons of basic seed (cotton, maize, beans, rice and
sorghum); and (e) production and distribution of improved breeding stock for
cattle and goats.
12.       The implementing agency would be the State Agricultural Research
Company (EPAMIG). Technical supervision, training, coordination with research
programs in other States and review of annual plans would be the responsibility
of the Federal Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid Tropics
(CPATSA), which is receiving support for these activities under the First
Northeast Rural Development Project (Loan 2523-BR). EPAMIG would develop the
research in cooperation with both farmers and extension officers and appraise
both technical and economic results from farm-level observation units.
Cooperating farmers who have observation units on their farms would contribute
to the investments (mostly in the form of labor). Once the. results of these
observation units hve been proven, they would be diffused among farmers through
demonstration plots under the aegis of EMATER-MG, EPAMIG would expand the
existing program to produce basic seeds of five major crops: cotton, maize,
beans, rice and sorghum. The project would finance investment costs for sheds,
laboratory equipment (Montes Claros) and agricultural equipment (Jaiba and
Mocambinho stations), and recurrent costs. The basic seeds produced by EPAMIG
would be sold to cooperatives for multiplication. The improved seeds would be
processed by the cooperatives and marketed through their existing network.
EPAMIG would also produce improved genetic material for fruit trees and breeding
stock for cattle and goats.
Rural Extension
13.       EMATER-MG is already providing technical assistance to some 15,000
small farmers in the 42 municipalities of the Northeast region of the State.
Under the proposed project, the extension service would be expanded to reach
about 38,000 farm families at full development (22,000 in the area of intensive
action and 16,000 in the area of extensive action). This would represent about
40X of the total target group for the region including the landless farm
families. The project would finance: (a) civil works, office equipment and
furniture for 19 district offices; (b) establishment and maintenance of up to



-23 -                           ANNEX I
Page 4
340 demonstration plots Including about 30 plots for the Cotton Pest Control
program and five pilot areas (microvalleys) for soil/water conservation
demonstration; (c) recurrent costs for 180 agricultural and social extension
agents (two agricultural agents for every social extension agent), 30
subject-matter specialists, 30 supervisory personnel and about 75 administrative
staff; (d) equipment and materials for a Cotton Pest Control Program; (e) the
production of about half a million seedlings of algaroba, sabia and fruit trees
to plant about 3,000 ha; and (f) project-related training and operating costso
14.       EMATER-MG field staff In the region is organized into one headquarters
in Belo Horisonte 3 regional and 40 local offices. Most supervisory personnel
and subject-matter specialists would be located in regional offices or in
Belo Horizonte and would travel 50% of the time to supervise local extension
agents. At field level, each extension agent would assist on a fixed schedule
six to eight groups of 20-25 farmers organized around contact farmers and
demonstration plots. The ratio of extension agents to farm families would
decline from 1:130 in Year I to 1:200 by Year. 7 in the area of intensive action
and from 1:200 to 1:280 in the area of extensive action. Some extensionists
would be specialized, namely those dealing with farmers who live in irrigated
perimeters.  Social extension workers, cooperating in teams with agricultural
extensionists, would work with farm families to improve sanitation, child care,
family nutrition, small animal husbandry and vegetable gardening. Specialists
from the Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural Extension (EMBRATER)
would supervise EMATER-MG activities at least once a month. In-service training
for extension staff would include sssistance from EPAMIG and EMBRAPA through
CPATSA.
15.       EMATER-MG would, through its demonstration plots, encourage adoption
of simple, proven practices which would improve crop yields, preserve soil
fertility, expand the cultivated area and increase livestock production. Many
practices to reach these objectives are already proven, such as: (a) increased
use of animal traction to improve land preparation and labor productivity; (b)
increased use of improved seeds; (c) contour ploughing and more appropriate crop
rotations to improve water and soil conservation; (d) improved weed, pest and
disease control (cotton boll weevil, in particular); (e) increased use of
drought-resistant and perennial crops; (f) improved animal husbandry; and (g)
improved pastures and cultivated forage crops. The 340 demonstration plots to
be established and maintained would include about 30 specific units for the
preventive control of the cotton pest (boll weevil) and five pilot demonstration
areas (microbacias), each grouping 20 to 25 small farms, for improved soil/water
conservation practices. Prior to the establishment of each of these five
demonstration areas, the Bank would be provided with a satisfactory feasibility
study of the proposed collective investments (terracing, small dams and
collectors, etc.)
16.       The Superintendency for Agriculture and Livestock within SEAG-MG
(SUPAGRO) would be responsible for the coordination and monitoring of the state
Cotton Pest Control Program which would be implemented by EMATER-MG with
assistance from EPAMIG.
17.       EMATER-MG would also be responsible for the implementation of the
nursery activities aimed at producing half a million seedlings for farmers to
plant for fodder1_fuelwood, and fruit trees (about 3,000 ha). Small nurseries



-24 -                          ANNEX 1
Page~ 5 
would be installed at village and farm level and EMATER-MG technical staff would
be specifically trained in seedling production and distribution.
Marketina Services
18.       The marketing component is designed to increase farmers' knowledge of
markets and prices and improve the timely provision of agricultural inputs. A
Marketing Fund (FINACOM) grouping ongoing Government schemes, such as the
Minimum Price Scheme (CEP) and the Advance Purchase of Farmers' Surpluses (CAP),
would be established but without Bank support.
19.       The Marketing Information Service (SIMA) is an ongoing activity
carried out under tne aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture with EPAMIG as
executing agency for the State, It provides farmers with timely advice on local
and regional prices, storage facilities, transport, and selling options. The
project would complement SIMA's regional office activities in establishing an
information and diffusion center at the headquarters in Montes Claros of the
Association of Cooperatives of the North of Minas Gerais (COOPNORTE). It would
finance office equipment and operating costs and, on a decreasing basis during
the first four years (100%, 75%, 50%, and 25%), two marketing technicians and a
clerk. Data would be collected at markets and disseminated by radio and printed
bulletins.
20.       Product Classification and Grading is an ongoing activity carried out
by the Classification Department (DPCPOV) wIthin SEAG-MG. The project would
strengthen the DPCPOV existing facilities in Janauba and Montes Claros through
equipping three mobile units to develop a product classification and grading
system to attend small farmers production.
21.       Storage/Processing Network.  The project would finance the
installation of ten storage/grain processing units (totalling 6,000 tons of
capacity) in ten of the 19 cooperatives of the region to complement the
insufficient existing storage facilities at the production level. Each facility
would consist of one or two storage units of 500-ton capacity, with, where
justified, drying and milling equipment. They would help the cooperatives
assist project beneficiaries in financing (through the marketing fund),
processing, storing and marketing small farmers surpluses. The project would
also finance, on a declining basis during the first three years (100%, 66% and
33%), salary and other operating costs for one marketing technician per
facility. Prior to the installation of each facility, the Bank would be
provided with a satisfactory feasibility study and a draft agreement between
SUDENOR and the cooperative defining the operational procedures for the
channeling of the marketing fund to project beneficiaries and the marketing of
their production.
22.       Training.  EMATER-MG would organize training of extension agents in
marketing techniques. The courses would include product marketing systems,
marketing margins, product classification, market preferences, processing,
handling and crop storage.



- 25 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 6
23.       Marketing Fund.  The Marketing Fund, complementary to project (para
18), would be ent-lrely financed by the Government and would include:
(a) the advance purchase of farmers' surpluses (CAP) program (about US$1.2
million) for about 4,000 producers, or 10% of the project
beneficiaries, to be executed under the responsibility of cooperatives
in the project area; and
(b) the minimum price scheme (CEP) program (about US$2.8 million) for
about 10,000 farmers, to be executed under the responsibility of
SUDENOR and cooperatives.
Support to Small Rural Communities (SSRC)
24.       The objectives of the SSRC component, which would expand an ongoing
satisfactory program (FADA) in the State, are to help formal and informal groups
of farmers participate in their own development by: (a) providing them with a
system whereby they select, plan, implement, manage and monitor local
development projects suited to their own needs; (b) safeguarding their interests
through group representation; and (c) enabling them to improve their economic
base through organizing joint resources for increased production. In order to
carry out these objectives, the component would include: (a) creation of a
community grant fund of US$14.6 million to finance local development projects;
(b) purchase of equipment; and (c) training and recurrent costs for about 24
community development agents. About 50,000 rural families would benefit
directly as a result of the local development projects (LDP).
25.       The community development (CD) fund would finance three categories of
LDPs: (a) economically based LDPs (representing in total at least 60% of the
fund) such as cottage Industries, building of fish ponds and small animal
production schemes; (b) community infrastructural LDPs (representing at least
25% of the fund) such as construction of communal laundry facilities, small
irrigation and drainage schemes, and repair of small access,roads; and (c)
community organization LDPs (representing not more than 15% of the fund) such as
training group leaders and giving legal assistance for land tenure matters.
Guidelines have been established to help select LDPs:
(a) LDPs would be submitted in writing to Municipal Councils and would
include objectives, justification, expected benefits, method of
implementation, cost sharing (groups would participate with about 15%
of cost) and monitoring and evaluation;
(b) the fund would not finance subprojects funded by other project
components or the construction of schools, health posts, roads or
rural electrification;
(c) the fund would not finance recurrent costs of LDPs; and
(d) the group would be solely responsible for the management and
administration of the LDPs that should attempt to benefit the
community sad eventually become self-sustaining.



-26 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 7
26.       SETAS-MG would be responsible for the implementation of the SSRCs.  It
would recruit, mainly from within its own staff, 24 full-time CD field agents
who would be university graduates. These agents, each one covering about two
municipalities, would stimulate community organization and assist in the
formulation of group requests for LCPs. Group requests would then be submitted
to Municipal Councils for discussion, analysis, evaluation and approval.
Municipal Council members would be elected by villages and each village would
send two representatives to the Council. The relevant CD agent and regional
coordinators from SUDENOR and EMATER-MG would also participate in the analysis
and evaluation of group requests. SUDENOR could reverse the Municipal Council's
recommendation if it does not conform with the stated guidelines, or postpone
funding if funds have been exhausted for the current fiscal year.
27.       Disbursements would be made by installments.  Progress in
implementation would be supervised by the CD agent. In the case of a legally
registered association or group, disbursements would be made directly to the
group through a bank account. In the case of an unregistered group, the
agreement would be signed by the municipality or other designated institution on
behalf of the group, and funds would be channelled through the municipality or
designated institution.  At present all funds would be disbursed on a grant
basis; but by March 31, 1989, SUDENOR and the Bank would review the experience
to date on the economically based LDCs to establish the feasibility of carrying
out further CD fund operations on a loan basis.
28.       Monitoring and evaluation of the LDCs would be extremely important to
both the groups themselves and the development of the SSRC component itself.
During the preparation of a group request the CD agent and the group would
determine the procedures required for participatory monitoring and evaluation.
The fact that monitoring and evaluation would be a participatory effort would:
(a) increase the awareness and commitment within the community; (b) allow
findings to be fed back immediately to the group; and (c) as an ongoing process,
give the CD agent a closer understanding of the project and of the community's
evolution.
D. Project Cost
See Tables 1.5 and 1.6
E. Project Financing
29.       Funding procedures would be those adopted for the NRDP.  Funds would
be channelled from the Treasury through the Ministry of Interior (MINTER) and
SUDENE for both the Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization Program
Fund (PROTERRA) and the Social Investment Fund (FINSOCIAL), to either a specific
project account in the State for activities executed by state agencies or
directly to federal executing agencies. Monthly advances of Government
counterpart funds would also be made through the Central Bank to cover the
estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
F. Disbursement
See Tables 1.7 and 1.8
G. Ameridian Protection and Resettlement of non-Ameridian
Populations
See Annex 4.



- 28 -
KrW1 ofL amiE:r in  - FiM AM
AM  of                                                                            e ginio Mtiu  AM  o   inlv  Mtlm
idlea to   zo-1i0b0    aft"l          lb. d   tid       Lm  20 he  24-100h5 to CQ     d      *.d  tow
law 10 he   ra        or 1I/                            LW tOo he- s F              I/
15i            kocaef                905         36        1,291       l,x5    33            -          _             _          ,
Jammu                        -           -     -          -                 1,178        1,837        3,01U      3,668  61.0
NOWa                   551        095        1,446      1,818   67.7           -          -             -          _    -
bta1.i                  -         ^ -                     -       -           433         353           816      1,031  62.3
So FemcLsco          1,113       1,73J       2,851      3,73    884            -          -            -           -    -
IS8           p htWift             1,83        1,371       3,208      3,671   90.6           -          -            -           -    -
ft &o  this     a-                                        -       -           346         3t6           722        870  81.3
FSPLMM                  -         -            -          -       -         1,9I          782         2,t7C      2,933  683
M  V41                             54       1,037       1.214      8          -          -             -          -    -
NX" Mda1,181                     1,18        2,369       2,757   59.3          -          -             -          - _
159           No oPrdo1 a ni       3,429       l,707       5,136       5,436   24.1                     -             -          - _
iXbs1a                 -          -           -          -       -           226         456          652         918 4L2
sati                    -         -            -          -       -           m          1,326        2,103      2,700  44.6
So Jo  do Imai.   1,426            886       2,312      2,55    24.1                       -                       -    -
UAWobsltin              -          -           -          -       -           124         3W           451         723  36
m   1       m           -          -           -          -       -            87          2            370        634  29.4
161           WtdAo                   -          -           -          -       -           14           48           197        472 83L
PU                      -         -            -          -       -            25          a             53         91 77.6
162           UmIlts do  mm           -          -                    -                     5o          704         1,273      1,    8896
Deajm                  763         639       1,402       1.83    60.0          -          -             -          _
CqLtt f                  -         -                              - -          76          109            5        30   97.8
C      b o              -         -            -          -       -           141         220           361       41   79.6
sd           a          -          -           -          -       -           6j9         674         1,283      1,78   83.7
E_ao   1inwo                                              -       - I          74          90           154        231  77.3
FeuaoO a                -          -           -          -       -           106          101         237         317  79.5
FtUe     SR                  -                                                4 -  402    508           910      1,381  94,9
tIa                     -         -            -          -       -            29          9           127         274  90.6
lauu                   604         378         982       1,378   8S.8          -          -            -           -   -
ti                                                                             as-  -  -  -  -  83  152  23t       377  S3.5
_         _           -           -      -            319         133          452        546 85
Le    d                 -          -           -          -       -            36          102          138        2Q6  78.S
ab                      -          -           -          -       -           333         234           567        797  753
Ibte Om   w                  -           -           -            -         1,002         863         1,86S      2,424  95.6
Sao Joi  dB P        l,91J        662        2,597      2,8      66.4          -          -            -            -   _
tbL                    -          -            -          -       -           216         354          370          0  83.5
Vam1ans                661         52S      l,87       1,49   60.7           -           -            -           -     -
163           bodrla                 -          -            -          -       -            68         234           302        472  87.5
cts                    -          -            -          -      -             48         19           37          299  61.2
!qpl              -           -           -          -       -           635          722        1,357      1,705  61.4
Ita                    324        349          673        788   384           -           -            -          -      -
166                                  -          -            -          -       -            87         101           188        71  85.9
Varso, d               -          -            -          -       -           196         111          307       1,147  90.5
TAu                            15,222      1,269      26,491      30,957   58.4       10,302      11SO         21,8D7     29,691   69.9
Sw.    W  CoS m m - 1990 U          - 1978 Stbms
1/ Puat Of tt Wi ntI   4dVt  dttA to hdr lal.



w-n mm-sDM AmM
E N       m moe 400 - RIB Gnu
Evoltio  ofhgraslwalPtodct1on In the ftolectai
1978                                   1911                                       19B
Crop                    Ana       Yield                       Azes       Yied   k       i;   m          rzws         yield       prahctiom
(ht      OWN )         (tot)           *)        )kAu           (to)            (ha)        (BW '-
Qittom (saw)          76,004        583         4,308       78,04          875          68,958         8D,135         6UD           55.324
Rice (psldy)           18,002     1,260         22,676      27,22D        1,857          50,560        33,834        1,00           3r6,6
_me                   45,970        540         24,83       44,535         369           16,414        73,5 2?                       20,4
Ci_as  (rats)         48,346    14,593         705,524      46,784       14,344         671,091        35,363       14,011         45,466
NMiz                  145,115       953        138,268     2D4242         1,065         219,645       17,038         1,072         189,728
Thtac~o.a(I s)          1,030       523            539       1,080         531             573            877          543             476
Rilrm                  8,274        754          6,244       6,302         919            5,793         6,5D5        l,Ow            7,105
2) I'muiad aSm S-psredaL Ckrs:
1Em   (OOOD bnmdcs)  1,716          .89          1,537       1,995         1,10           2,18          3,140         1,15           3,598 
CofSz (d&id b1rre)  4,9M6           440          2,169       7,271         636            4,629         4,099        1,542           6,322
(Oae ('ODD frult8)    1,045        65,3         68,268       1,441         78&9         113,690         2,365         589          13,262
S91r Cm. (ton)        23,472       34.9        818,621      27,749         39.1       1,086,290        30,399         51.3       1,558,538
3) LiwtW&:
IbId ax! fLock (mits)
-Cattle             2,167,656                            2,070,704                                  ,088,601
- Ibo                 142,783                              158,039                                    18,792
- es and doaps        24,742                                33,68%                                     76,155
-PIgP                 386,470                              367,200                                    359,382
-  ts                 19,230                                25,245                                     28,773
- Qdr,             3,043,451                             3,756,912                                  4,219,373
-Mc ('GOD iten)                                102,837                                  129,613                                    148,016
Sot:  I    - Statistical Yewly Ihlletu - Data ecludig uajor drmpt yeats f 1979, 1981 amd 1983
4..-!



13A_  WE_L         11  lIE  - DIS  IS
ftojct AA.s mIn        aq mg_te                              A m
Aves of Jtmsfr Actim~                                           Ann of 8ive   tdmi.
IrE      1abw of  Lad    0   IElstimate  A     Of                         Nmw at tAnt           hArd             Fa  I       .r af
16wm-   tImi-    Aim  (2)           P atf   Tgt            ptjecit         tbdci-   kea (b)    1              lt            W ct
1am                                        G*1 fuulies  IMM1CIMI-a I/ jaItim                                 am* faI1m  _fSdwSm  1/
157         3       1,5614      81,355        12,170          4,600          2       17,265      57,023         8,53D         2,800
158        3         7,895      67,8k         10,155          5,50D          2        3,239      36,305         4,53D        2,5a0
159         2       10,204      58,891         8,810          6,200          4        7,951      61,983        9,210          2,650
161        -          -           -             -             -              2        7,46        9,663         1,WM           23D
162         4       12,455      75,03D        11,220          5,100          14      22,223     U15,851        2),32D         6,10
163         1        1,578       8,252         1,235           6m            3        7,760      28,691         4,290         14D
166        -          -           -             -                            6        6,121      11,513         1,72D          350
Tota    13       48.6        291,414       43.         5  22,9 1/         29      72.?       335,029        5D.1CCO       16,(0I
1/ lauftdarl  frm on-farm I_ptt _oIuts. An aditiml 12,000 f*i   winuld ala  binft furn aq,ort to 1s                  m_ it.
Somwm: IDl Omu  - 1960; Yearly Statistical adletin for tS - 1983/84.
.l



- 31 -                                           ANMSEX 1
Table 1.4
hanuvsEim              nifm 
-     o 6,1  _0 2,          d
pd l_ f _t    Akal                                         Ag_  _cs
1S7      _kWVub             2,561        1,490              2               d s            l4,810       6,9110         2,290
Mot                SS,6         3,315           2,200                             2,0          3'4m           1,70O
so  c ow w        8,6           5,65            2,16                              10            - 
i15   P orh"rids            3ael                                                           3,2 5        5.160          1,555
?dolAx          1,O339      1,190            30
MM Ietb              14         I'                                                              -               -J- 
Hoft   A           3,442        3,314           2,005                 2. 1        1,2002       3,350          1,63O
162 MMcs1n       6,733        2,6$5           40165            MialUa            1,Oms       l,405            410
se1v              3,0         5,U0           1,)
TJsa,01           1,905       1,33 -mO
SmJawda@ at    2427           3,745           2,035             _ tin,m I16                   60              355
161           -o     6-             -              -                      Q    tL           3,216 11                       5
_            -               a       ~       iin1r _  __ o                         170      35
142      aO                 5,n          2,985            I'Mt            111&s 41 F_  2,11             4,02           I,D0
*               -            -- ,20.bii                                                     40 1,970  e s2
SmJwd  fFn6    2,12 Z    3,74S                  I'm             CqStz    _M         9m          660             m
'!nrA              ZJU          2,m             1,075           cw    do %a         us7DI
- ~ ~     ~ ~            ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~~ -wa  do -   *    3,516    3,110               M3
_   -         -               -            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opillso  so 51      435            13D
a~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pmm _m _16                                               41_
-               -            -               -                    0WdiNo St  2.C9         2,435            710
_  _         _               -             WIbt                904           o0            160
-               -            -               -             Jeqs~eu1            06t          750            21S
-   -        -               -                 _~r             695          745           225
_ _                     _                    -             LqosbPato            537        N5              115
-               -            -               -                _Ut*m1a         1,144       1,215            350
-               -      -                     -       ~      bg   ClanH       4,135        3,290          1,010
-               -            -               -                1Ubs    .       1,455       1,S95            455
163   I, wSf                1,57m        1,235             600                              1,466         99             330
-   -        -               -C                 lla            765         645             210
-   -        -               -                  ~am1         5,507        2,650            860
166           -               -            -               -              I_aF             3,5            730            150
- ' -        -               -             VVrm d Pa         2,476         990             200
ratd      -            46A696        431.M/          22/0                              7 .005      soo             16M0
So     :   I  Como - 196
U( C    td frd,   l"aal   1w  tbali   l   esw                        (ua_d pauepi Awy, ws   cp Silw       CaL
-twa fmdliA)         nd  e t    e te ?        Nt  rqm d 1.  c         .
1/ Ilg u9in, at Ml *duv1, fa on    i.at cowA.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - HMINS GERAIS
Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities
(US$'OOO0)
1981/1988 1388/19*   M13/193  133/931" IMAM133  l93/199  t93/139l 130/13   total
A. ms*ac wuuiaM snutv     N
oustic  miuuilSauau?3
UlASIhliit 11SIUO1ES                                           122       32          2        3.        6                                   1.251.6
1351 111111W SIVElPhIOINGS                                    291 S      321.4    321.2       A S6    26. 4     311.1 I   3VA8      360.3  2.5M. 2
Sub.loWa  mailER hSOhIRC(S 01VIt0MUT                            4.630.1  S.3651   4,389.1   3.67119  1.1I54.     621.0    431.1    360.3  22.433.2
3. 81 otuivat 1151*1
6EuE6*116 01 TECIIOEOGI                                       401.?      344.1    330.9      349.3     311.9    391.1    40.8~   419.0  3,017.0
oiinfsSalo Of fit,11106                                         15 3      91.0     1O6.2     112.      111.6    12C i      II6.16    111.2    843.3
BaneSfIC  1   PROOSCIIU                                        519.2      60.3      802J      10. 6     12.       15.4     18.I      so.8a  l. 03.2
Eiv1SIocK 3311316 170CR                                        951.      109.4     n8.0          -        -                   -         -    391.1
13.511 1311 aglhic Si0Cm                                       21.5S     23. S     24 2      24.8      25.5      25.5S     21.4      25. 4    261.6
Basic AUICIOItUA  SIUBIES                                      103.6     S8. 2     58,.8      60. 0    61.0 9                 -         -    342.6
S%-oo  *AICUtIIIM  OESE8IKN                                     1.204,41    631.1    614.4     617.11    G"5.3    614.2    626.3    645.4  S. 134 3
6.3131ilhISIWN
3118I81 ' S 1 I U10U                                     2,5.87O.1   3.104.5  2.8S". )  2,053.3  3.0)$. 3   3.15).)  3.216.1  3.390.8  24.541.)
SOCIAl E066ST17                                                46.1      22.2      23.8      24 a      25.4      26.5      28.5      52.69    243.6
1:011011 0151  6O1311                                          t0g. 4    107.6    lot I      110.81    114.4     32.5      91.8a     33.2    838.4
KFUIISIIOS1111/CUSIUVATION UNITS                                N0.0    2M  3     220.       5 2.1     62.1      64.3      66.64     61.11    s0.e
Smob-Iota) 3561 flERItERS                                       3,004.2   3,452.6  3.162.4   3.151. .  3. 260.2  S. 345L1   3,461. 0   31.61t.4  2641,81
haIIN    RoUSiloI                                         28.2       12.32     10. 6      .1.      1.1       4.9       S. I      S.3      et.4a
CIASS(IICAI(06I                                                 S. I      8.1         -          -        -         ---                        IS.8a
SNOSEQ 31133                                                  264.2    392.3    328. 2       24.1       1.1                             -   1. 00. I
5,4,-1.t. 66511136                                               23.5S    413.9    338.6        31.5      14.8       4.0       S.1t      5.3   1.105.)
t. rim*  13111111U  111011                                     1.)S". 4   2.333.1  4.301.4  S. 50. )   S.1M1.4  5,3M..G  4. 3?. 6   1.841.?  22.335. )
F. 119901  10 smut out* comoitiWIS
I'66311  0EVE1tlU1`76011                                 1,749.3   1.7493.   1,143.3   1.141.3   1.1493.   1.149.11  2.040.S  2.0408  14. 5115 
aMUI6SIR*110h                                                 445.9     451. I    455. 0    481.6    491.2    514. I    53.?        5 51.3  3. 929.I
5,4,-total $D*FID  t0 58t1 111*  CflmIUlUItS                   2. 11.-2 , 220.4     2.20,4.   2,3.      .45 2.5.    .1               2.52.   I858
31*OWAUi3S                                                     170.4     133.)J    131.3     140.6    142.3    141.2    143.2    186.2   1. If.0
1161011                                                       266.1    231.1    239.5S    244.2    252.0        2.63.     273.0    2826   2,059.0
ev.8161t13                                                     138. 6    107.1     16.1I    110.3    113.8       34.9      91.3     to6.I    M6.1I
623..S    268.1    266.2      23.5S    21. 1     241.)S   233.0    269.9  2.20.2
SA-Total PSOJCI 1006113t1011. Kmitloins MIS 13V1138136           36.2       M 22     145.8    114.6    181. I      752.)S   1M.4    741.2   6,300.3
ttSPUJICI cos,s                                              (3.922.6  6.16,`15.1' M16.23   16.241.1  (4.53.8  12,956.8S  12. 42. IIM 3,06613491.6
A"zzman.:lZSt "a..s.a.z  sas ana sxsssc t*lttr.sss    sttfs susz ;us.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COtPONENT
(US$ x 1000R
MAIER RfSOIIRCES D OlIlOUh11I                                          .        -- -.-.- . . .-
tIfSliot6  fultf         ASStc
WIUSlIC      PUmIC  1i1518litY  IUSIIIUJIIO  6EUht9l8 0U Diffusion OF "sit SEfD 81EDI6   iEUEtlC                   1cuIltf
11l*R1 Supply 19ii6l       SiUOtiS   STONCG4111MIG   INENOCENT        ItEOt   PUChIoS   StOCK            StOCK       st1t01
I  IlY&StifNil coSts
A CtYlt IlORtt
a .  ...i     ...a
IRRICSIIOCi mS                                        3?.875.0
8i91tOICS                                              42.900 0                                    3.425 0                  1.80 0       625         2 0             -
OltOfR coll%laurI o"                       16,032 0   2S.239 5                                                                    -         8                        -
Sub lotal CIVIt 11R3'-                        16.032 0  101.014 5                                     3.425 0                  I.8000 0    95 3         32 0
B  YlHICiES AW11 t1lltN1 I
(0919li9ll                                  6.728 3   t7.175 0                       904 0                                 4.174.0   *.5080         20.S         I5  0
Sub total *HICLIS AD fOUIPU(II                 6.728 3   7, t5 0                        904 0                                  4.1I4 0   1.50S 0       20           6n.0
C AWVISIIFUI tRIDII
0  StUOliS                                                 3.9040    16.620 0
t. COekIUIII  FUW                                     -          -
.. . . .. . . .. .. . . .... .... .. . . . . . ..... . ...    .    . .........
total INYfSl"ENt COStS                           22, t60 3  t8tI. 773 S    t6. 670 0       9104 0        3.475. 0                5.9t4 0   2.423 3    .S2 S            6tS. 0                   W
tl. AEIURI*I C0515S
..............
A. SaiAS IES A aI wiNcE
SaU4lfS                                      44 0                                16.369 0       14.927 3       3.70 9    3. 884        550 S    t. S96 a      t.72 S
SOCIAt ClN*CS                                285 5                                G. 1f4 S       7.463? t       .8515    1.U 32        275I *4                  as38 3
ttnEt ftioNAt   S                            400 0           *1.944 0                            1.242  0        656 a      '91 I       57 6        IS.4       816.4.
Sub-total S*LtWS *0 AM IOWICES                t 129 S                               26.49"  S      23.639 0       6.211 2    4.94S 7       82. 8    2.S49"       2869326
B. 681191*15
10116CttS hIINNIUG LOSES                                                          2.294. 4       2.024.0         844 a                -                -        211.2
Olitl 01*18lat                                                                    1.672 0        4.431 6          2s 3    1.0    a    S07 0       67. S        421 0
Sub To0l 3tE)tRII                                                                    l3.9t6         6.4S  6       1.670 3    1.o55 0      SO0         a7t.5       637.2
C CDS1t*C1tB St31615
VENICII i FllUIEW*t                                                                 *6685        t..8            908?                                           2270
0lNt9 SERVICIS                                                                    1.64S.0        2.833.7       1.0OS  3                                         42615
~~~~~.          ..  ...     . .. ....   .     . .....    .............   .............   ... ........     .......... .... .... . .. . .....    ..      ... . ..... .. .....
Sub-loseS t' *1*RC0tD SLRVICIS                                                       4. 1115        5.009. 5      t.94 5                                           6S3.S
0. oIlIER OPEINGIII  COStS                    1.918 0   n.9500                             -               -        934 4    1. 34 S       14 6        S 3
totgI UCIWRIWI Costs                              3.047 S   22.9S0 0                    34,5 4         35.104 I      10.810 I    7. m   2   1.40 4    2.62 S         3. 983
lobd 8SEIIE  COSIS                                25.007  7 204m.23 5    16.6200         35.414          38.s2  I      0.810 I   13. 370 2   3.6276    2.67S 0        4.5993
fPlptcal Contngencmet                           1.939 6   IS.962 4      1.662 0           4f  2         342.S                    388 7      166 9         4 2         308 
priceC tentinp   c*&S                             794 2   10.879.5        99S  0       3.642 0         3.982. 3     1.164 1      a0 a       t39 6      2122          234 4               0- 
. .. ... .. .?Zn~2 ::t.n:r:, .:,:?ttSttt t s....          .               .t.~     - .:t--------            ... .     ... ...           i*uu
Wotl WWECI MISS                                   25  4      3.6          t9,278 0       3916            2.539        t.9t4 2   14. S5S g   4. t34 2    291S          454410 iv
loan                                            1. 697 3   26.68, .1          -        t156 1         .IS13. 1        476 6    1.259 2      49  2       18 0         293 a_ *154
tore*gn tExchang                                7.O0f0.S   61.245 3     9S.39 0        2.547.2        4.42S.6         9S1 6    t2.36 7   1.042 8        46 9         S66 
..      ....... .. ..... .... . . .. ..  .. . ...... . .. .......... . . .,,,.,,,,,, ......................  ........... ... ....... . ...   ....   ..............,.,,,,,,.,,.
lebruary 6. 1987 19 34



NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMEN PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT pROJECT -mtNAS GERAIS
SUMMAY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT COMPONEINT
(CZ$ x 1000)
mesas  smiso.                              Ai*4inC                                                   macu cumostas so. ymiss uutu  be
............ *.   ...     .... .  ............                                   &  K      C  3 III                             ,v*1uai.
fihssion #imst  LOUISA)            WITS            aIIMtmiION CI*SSIIICA11611 06Uh3  cnioit     nun1   am suls;mtt  hasomfalts walows Iwilationm  631., bios
I). 3000                                   S. 42150                        6.000 0                                  .                24                        459ON 2
4.6224    30 1       43 0                               Sp7a        2202 S.00000                               533 5        49.    S  a20            1302   102. as 5
4.6". 1 35 I  As0                               M. 2  . 056                               $33  5.0 6200                          3 .   *p2. 51. 
-                     .  207~~~~~~~~~~". 000 0                                           M0.0601 
47.402)    30.)  480           ~~~~~~        ~~~5.4210 la a07  2 2  Is410"00  462.6401  2"7.0000     633 1        4900   44.4              33S03   540.3714
IT& S.2uS           1.71860                              340 0              1. )o 114                         20."210      4.mea I.O  4?15. a 0.71110          S1.3
ft.M&37       -      1021                                                        ..        .                   .04         1.0M34.to"0J03     ".44I.          49 t.1*
# .##.444          I. i22. 0a    0. Oe.                                                                                     "I.01a 0 446.9    2264               no.01S
204i.3.        .    2. S0. 3I001.151.4                                                                        37.2)08a      0.2114120. 487.01  924*3       .   403W. 14
I5.06.23           4 4*32                               44054                3325                             *7te4         261 6  1.16702                     2501kt. S
2.65  1.65t.3    1 4.7 40                 S. 140a       240                     .         .                    719          25.40   4120     014.0            23. 327.0S
2.41.60.  1.501 3    6.2002                S. 140. 0     164 a               2226 a                            .00476       450.6 l. 663. 2   60.0                & 0 70
If10.".4      .      770~                               11)s4                307.6                            3.532 0       20.7I S. 257         .       -       SP. 7
2. S3.8S  1. 27S.3  3405                               7ITS0                 2713                            2.020 0      3.7)50 2.90.0   1. 330.0   3508      0.842. J
20.236.2  1.2713    I. 116.2                            327 4                382 9                            S .6025      4.0467 0.227.6   I.3M00   300 a     00. 79 7
*  .       .                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. 03. 0  . 7.7        23. 121 S
26.70) 9    25L.70) 9
296So.606 3. 162.6 a    0.646.4             S. 341.0     651. 2              1.S??. 0                   .     41.6, I      is. 0667125. 446S  #1.2350921.002 7   $0.69.75
SK214.02     3.204 7   40.864.4            to. S700     3.070 0       220.2 M9.27 0  467. 68, S   207.0000   0 0.019ll6    is0.i 13 726.007l 2  It.29M 0 77.388 0 I. S11.33110
3. 16)4    1.8        2 4                   0420        924          is0    M02 S                               34.7         2.1    " 20           e. .rig I     24l. 02
22.404.5   341 3    SAN38S                   849.3       it I          S.1   0 210 S0.24908                                3. 18)9 2.709 4   6.0141S 2.046 0    it.VA212  0I
3401.174.513,041 T    3.9000 6             "1.161 S     4. 400. 4     238 0 14.300 9  487.58 us  27T. 0_0 e   Ss.set.)     #6.600 0.2315   #2.349.0 34.27810  I.6114n.6l.
IL330.4   426 6    1.22206                  000.0       93.8         02 4  1.28 4                             . its. 6     M3933   SellS    203J4 4.6794    45.005 I
47.41222   06133    2.846 1                S.8J002      ISO I83,2 3.06223  70.0112 *    33.0%000              L.9"0         677 6  6.3006a    403 4 3.246 4   230.090    01



- 35 -
N l
Table 1.7
BRAZIL
NOMTEAST RURAL DEVEWPMENT PRDPAM
NORThEAST RURAL DEVE IOP T PROJECr - NINAS GERAIS
Estimated Schedule of Ban Disbursements
(Uss million)
lank       Quarter      Disbursement   Cumlative Disbursement  8s          ce
Fiscal     Endirg          Durirg                                     Of
Year                        Quarter     Amount       % Total
1988       Sept 30, 1987    -
Dec 31, 1987     2.5 1/       2.5             5            52.5
March 31, 1988   0.7           3.2                          51.8
June 30, 1988    0.8          4.0             7            51.0
1989       Sept 30, 1988    1.0           5.0                         50.0
Dec 31, 1988     1.1          6.1            11            48.9
March 31, 1989   1.3           7.4                         47.6
June 30, 1989    1.4          8.8            16            46.2
1990       Sept 30, 1989    1.6          10.4                         44.6
Dec 31, 1989     1.6          12.0           22            43.0
March 31, 1990   2.2          14.2                         40.8
June 30, 1990    2.3          16.5           30            38.5
1991       Sept 30, 1990    2.0          18.5                         36.5
Dec 31, 1990     1.9         20.4            37            34.6
March 31, 1991   2.0          22.4                         32.6
June 30,1991     2.1         24.5            45            30.5
1992       Sept 30, 1991    2.2          26.7                         28.3
Dec 31, 1991     2.3         29.0            53            26.0
March 31, 1992   2.5         31.5                          23.5
June 30, 1992    2.5         34.0            62            21.0
1993       Sept 30, 1992    2.5         36.5                          18.5
Dec 31, 1992     2.4         38.9            71            16.1
March 31, 1993   2.1         41.0                          14.0
June 30, 1993    1.4         42.4            77            12.6
1994       Sept 30, 1993    1.4         43.8                          11.2
Dec 31, 1993     1.4         45.2            82             9.8
March 31, 1994   1.4         46.6                           8.4
June 30, 1994    1.4         48.0            87             7.0
1995       Sept 30, 1994    1.3         49.3                           5.7
Dec 31, 1994     1.3         50.6            92             4.4
March 31, 1995   1.2         51.8                           3.2
June 30, 1995    1.0         52.8            96             2.2
1996       Sept 30, 1995    0.8         53.6                           1.4
Dec 31, 1995     0.7         54.3            99             0.7
March 31, 1996   0.7         55.0           100             -
1/ Initial deposit of US$2.5 nillion Into the Special Account.



I
-36-                                             Table 1.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVEWPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr - MlNAS GERAIS
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount (USS Rillion)
Municipality
Category                           Item                                    Total   of Itacarambi
I         Water Resources Development.                                  12.80          -
70% of expenditure
(of which US$9.1 million for public irrigation)
II         Agricultural Research.                                         1.40          -s
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$0.9 million; 30X thereafter until
the aggregate reaches US$1.2 million; and 10% thereafter
III         Rural Extension.                                               6.80          0.30
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$4.2 million (US$0.20 million
for Itacarambi); 30% thereafter until the aggregate
reaches US$5.8 million (US$0.25 million for Itacarambi);
and 10% thereafter
IV         Credit.                                                       14.80          0.32
50% of expenditure
V         Marketing.                                                     0.40           -
50% of expenditure (of which US$0.36 million for
storage facilities)
VI         Support to Small Comunnities.                                 11.60          0.19
70% of expenditure
VIl         Administration.                                                1.10          -
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$0.7 million; 30% thereafter
until aggregate reaches US$0.9 million; and 10% thereafter
VIII         Training.                                                      0.60           -
50% of expenditure up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of USS0.4 million; 30% thereafter
until aggregate reaches US$0.5 and 10% thereafter
IX         Unallocated                                                   - 5.50         0.09
55.-00         u.7



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
fTae 1.9
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
, mounts to be financed by
Govt. + IBRM        Government    Total
only 1/
A. WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
Domestic Water Supply               2.0                0.05        2.05
Public Irrigation                  16.3                 -         16.3
Feasibility Studies                 1.3                 _          1.3
Institution Strengthening           2.8                0.15       2.95
Sub Total (A)                22.4                0.2       22.6
B. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Generation of Technology            3.0                0*05        3*05
Diffusion of Technology             0,8                0.3         1.1
Basic Seed Production               1.0                 -          1.0
Livestock Breeding Stock            0.3                0.05       0.35
Fruit Tree Genetic Stock            0.2                 -         0.2
Basic Agricultural Studies          0.4                 -         0.4
Sub Total (B)                 5.7                0.4        6.1
C. RURAL EXTENSION
Rural Extension                    24.6                1.7       26.3
Social Forestry                     0.2                 -         0.2
Cotton Pest Control                 0.8                0.1        0.9
Soil/Water Conservation Units       0.9                 -         0.9
Sub Total (C)                26.5                1.8       28.3
D. MARKETING
Marketing Inform./Classlf.          0.1                 -         0.1
Storage Network                     1.0                0.1         1.1
Incr. Marketing Fund (CAP/CEP)       -                 4.0        4.0
Sub Total (D)                 1.1                4.1        5.2
E.  RURAL INVESTMENT CREDIT                 33.0                -         33.0
F. SUPPORT TO SMALL RURAL COMMUNITIES
Community Fund                     14.6                 -        14.6
Administrgtion                      3.9                0.2        4.1
Sub Total (F)                18.5                0.2       18.7
G.  PROJECT COORD., MONIT. & EVALUATION    4.1                 0.2         4.3
B. TRAINING                                  2.2                -          2.2
TOTAL                       113.5 2/             6.9      120.4
1/   Excluding incremental seasonal credit.
I/   Including about US$3.4 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



- 38 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Aspects
Federal and Regional Levels
1.        An Interministerial Commission (IC) for the Northeast Rural
Development Program (NRDP), chaired by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of
Interior, and comprised of representatives from the Ministries of Finance,
Planning, Land Reform and Agriculture and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has
overall policy and planning responsibility for the NRDP. The Director for the *
Program of Support to Small Farmers within SUDENE is the regional coordinator of
the NRDP of which the proposed project is a part. The Directorate receives
policy backing for its work through the Regional Rural Development Council (RDC)
linked to SUDENE's Deliberative Council, which includes all of the Northeast
State Governors. The RDC consists of the Superintendent of SUDENE, senior
management of the Directorate, representatives of the involved federal
ministries and banks, the Northeast State Secretaries responsible for program
coordination, and program beneficiary associations and unions.
State and Local Levels
2.        A State Rural Development Council (SRDC) chaired .by the Governor with
the Secretary of Planning as Executive Secretary and including the Secretaries
of Agriculture (SEAG), Work and Social Action (SETAS), and representatives from
participating banks, SUDENE regional office and beneficiary associations, would
provide overall guidance for rural development activities. A State Coordinating
Commission (SCC) chaired by the Secretary of Planning and composed of SUDENOR's
Superintendent and representatives of all executing agencies operating within
the project, would ensure proper implementation of SRDC guidelines and
integration of project activities. The SCC would meet monthly to plan,
supervise and evaluste the implementation of the annual work plans to ensure
their compatibility with overall project goals and methodology.
3.        SUDENOR, a branch of the Secretariat of Planning, would be the agency
responsible for administering and coordinating all federally-funded rural
programs and for fully integrating them under the project. It would be
responsible for: (a) consolidating annual operating plans drafted by the
executing agencies (Table 2.1); (b) supervising project performance and advising
the SRDC on institutional or technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and
preparing reimbursement requests; (d) evaluating ongoing projects; (e)
administering training activities and the community development fund.



-39 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        NRDP - MNins Gerais has been selected to carry out a case study to
improve the institutional strengthening process. An Institutional Development
Unit (IDU) would be created to help the Project Management implement the
project-supported institutional development component. As part of its
functions, this unit will be responsible for training, monitoring and
evaluation. Its main objective will be to permanently observe the institutional
environment in which the project is implemented and recommend appropriate action
to help overcome any actual or potential institutional capacity gap. A work
program for this new unit has been discussed and agreed upon with SUDENOR.  This
includes a detailed analysis of the current institutional capacity as compared
with the one that is necessary to implement the project and achieve its
objectives as desired. This analysis may lead to a reformulation of this
component including training, administration and monitoring and evaluation
sub-component.
5.        SUDENOR would reorganize its administrative structure to adjust to the
proJect needs (Chart 1). Its headquarters in Belo Horizonte would be reinforced
with an additional five high-level staff and organized into an executive
secretariat directly in charge of five units, namely: credit and extension,
water resource, marketing, land titling, and community development. In
addition, a Planning and Financial Control Unit and an Institutional Development
Unit, IDU, (see para. 4 above) would directly support management to handle
relevant aspects of project execution. SUDENOR would also reinforce if regional
coordination office in Montes Claros and its four subregional offices in Montes
Claros, Janauba, Januaria aud Salinas with an additional 16 staff. Finally, a
Re gional Technical Council including representatives from all executing agencies
and the Federation of Agricultural Workers of the State of Minas Gerais,
FETAEMG, would help review annual programs and adapt current policies. At the
municipal level, community groups and delegates from PETAEMG would be the link
with target populations through community development subprojects.
B. Pro1ect Execution
See Chart 2.
C. Trainin
6.        All training programs would be emphasized and would be centrally
coordinated and administered by the IDU within SUDENOR to avoid duplication and
conflicting strategies among State agencies. The five types of training given
would be:
(a)  Induction Training.  The objective would be to give an initial
orientation for staff, farmers and community leaders as to the basic
project concepts, components expectations and the underlying strategy
of ,articipation" in the implementation of project activities. It
would be given by SUDENOR; FJP; SUDENE/UNDP; FETAEMG and RURALMINAS;
(b)  Poject-Related Training   The objective would be to provide technical
training by component for project staff. Responsibility for assessing
the needs and undertaking the execution of the training program would
remain with the implementing agencies, but SUDENOR's IDU would have to
give its clearance before releasing project funds;



ANNEX 2
- 40 -                     Page 3
(c)  Management Training.  The objective would be to improve all involved
agencies' managerial skills (both at central and regional level).
Though organized by SUDENOR the courses themselves would be given by
consultants and specialized institutions;
(d) Training of Trainers. SUDENOR in cooperation with SUDENE would train
trainers usually with the assistance of consultants;
(e)  Farmer Training.  Farmers would receive training on specific
components, such as credit, marketing and community development. In
each case, the respective implementing agency would be responsible for
the training; and
(f) Union Training* An original feature of this training project is the
upgradlng of Agricultural Worker Union's management and staff training
to deliver the skills necessary for farmers' organizations at all
levels. This will be carried out by FETAEMG and SUDENOR with the
participation of relevant executing agencies.
7.        Detailed training programs have been designed so as to achieve
identified impacts to be used as evaluation indicators. They have been spelled
out explicitly (project files).
D* Monitoring and Evaluation
8.        Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to simplify
reporting requirements to provide accurate and timely information for project
management and to allow annual planning. SUDENOR's IDU would receive from
executing agencies monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators.
State evaluation activities under the proposed project would comprise: (a) a
baseline survey; (b) ongoing evaluation and special studies of selected topics;
(c) mid-term evaluation; and (d) post project evaluation. This program will be
carried out with the technical assistance of the Joao Pinheiro Foundation (FJP)
that will also seek the institutional strengthening of SUDENOR in this field.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2.1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Maln ExecutIng
ProJect Activity                                 Agency               Main Collaborating Aagncles
Water Resource Development
- Rural Conmunity Watcr Supply                   COPASA-MG            Private Contrators
- State Public Irrigation                        RURALMINAS           EMATER-MG, INCRA, Contrators,
Cooperat Ive
-  Feasibility Studies, Engineerlng Designs      RURALMINAS           Consultants, Contractors
Adaptive Agricultural Research
- Studies                                        EPAMIG
- Trials, Observation Units                      EPAMIG               CPATSA, B4DRAPA
- Basic Seed Productlon                          ETAMIG               EMATER-MG
Agricultural Extenslon
- Agricultural Extenslion                        EMATER-MG            EMBRATER, EPAMIG
- Nursery Activitles                             EMATER-MG            EPAMIG, IEF
- Cotton Pest Control Program                    SUPAGRO/SEAG"MG      EMATER-MG, EPAMIG
Credit Rural                                     88, BNB, aEM        EMATER-MO
BCRMG, CEMG
Marketing ServIces
- Marketing Information and Orientation Service  COOPNORTE            EPAMIG, ODOPERATIVES
-  Product Classiftcatlon                        DPCPOV/SEAG4MG
- Output Storage Network                         SUWENOR              Cooperatives, Communities
Support to SmeIl Rural Communities
- Comunily ActIlvties                            Community Groups    SUDENOR, SETAS-14
- Technical Assistance and Training              SETAS-MG             SUDENOR
Project Administration and Training
- Adminstration, Monitorlng                      SUDENOR              SUDENE, all ExecutIng Agencles
-  Evaluation                                    FJP                  SUDME
- Tralning                                       SUDENOR and          SUDENE
Executing Agencies



RI                                                           II    I
Ii            ii                        ii
I            I                                         QK   I
P          1  (                          I,              I
I I'         I                         I! ,J           111           di
14   Ij                   It
I            I                           I                  I
V         I*                          I
I            'ra                         I                  I
N         I
'a  _____     111        PI'                                 *p1
ifj             ii       p    P          Iii   -i'Ll                               1%)
If
II         I               ill   I                  NJ I    tiI
I            I                                                        I
If           I               Iii  iIj   [                  ill
I                       1        4        'jl
II                                         liii   ; 
I            I                           I
g     IA'                                                                          oj
I            I
11!



I.MA 1Inl1~  
-iii       l                   fiL llml-H
,~    _  ..- .I.
- r- r--l.    1i 1             - -r  
em  I11111-F---



-44-                      ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC BENEFITS
A. Financial Benefits
1.        The estimated increase in crop and livestock production (Table 3.1)
due to the project was derived from six illustrative farm models (Tables 3.2 and
3.3). The farm models take into account the present low level of production and
the assumption that only relatively simple on-farm investments will be made by
farmers. The financial rates of return range from 15% to 50%, with a weighted
average of 27%. The projected increases in crop yields are shown in Table 3.3.
The impact of the project on agricultural production would be achieved through a
combination of increased productivity and the expansion of cropped area by about
32% (mainly resulting from expanded irrigation and improved security of land
tenure). The increased productivity would result from increasing the cropping
intensity on irrigated lands, more widespread use of improved seeds and better
cultivation practices.  The expansion of the cropped area would be made possible
by the increased use of animal traction. Cropping patterns are not expected to
change dramatically but in the rainfed areas use of drought-resistant crops
other than annual cotton (such as short-cycle maize, grain sorghum and peanuts)
and perennial crops would be encouraged. In areas benefiting from irrigation,
farmers are expected to increase the proportion of the more profitable cash
crops such as fruits and vegetables. Expansion of the cattle herd (for both
milk and meat production) would occur mainly from improved animal husbandry and
better feeding resulting from increased use of artificial pastures (such as
buffel grass) and legume fodder trees (algaroba). At full development (Year 12)
the annual incremental marketed production generated by the project is estimated
to be US$38.6 million (in September 1986 farm-gate prices) with 64% of the
incremental value of production resulting from crops (of which 38% from
basic food crops and 26% from fruits and vagetables) and 36% from animal
products.
2.        The increased production would raise incomes substantially and would
give greater food security as the effects of droughts would have been reduced.
Net annual family farm benefits which, taking into account supplemental income
from off-farm work, currently vary between US$100 and US$280 per capita, would
increase, at full development, to a range of US$280 to USS600, in constant
terms. The expansion of agricultural activities alone would create new on-farm
employment opportunities equivalent to about 14,100 man-years annually. Most of
this demand (68%) would be for unskilled labor that would be met with family
labor. Many small rural community subprojects would also generate demand for
local employment, possibly of a semi-skilled nature.
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
3.        The overall rate of return of the project is estimated to be 12.9%
with a 20-year adalysis (Table 3.4). The cost stream for the economic analysis



ANNEX 3
Page Z
is based on five olements: (a) all Minas Gerais project costs, except those
related to domestic water supply, feasibility studies for NRDP second phase
irrigation projects, the community development component, or 78% of total
project cost; (b) vehicles and micro computers required by the project; (c) 10%
of regional administration costs financed under the Northeast Rural Development
Project-Sergipe (Loan 2523-BR); (d) 2.9% of regional research costs financed
under the Northeast Rural Development Projects for Sergipe and Bahia (this
percentage is equal to the proportion of Minas Gerais Northeast Region's rural
population within the Northeast's rural population); (e) 80% of Minas Gerais'
share of cadastral activity costs financed under Loan 2593-BR; and (f) recurrent
costs on a declining basis from Year 9 to 11 and 25% of Year 8 costs during
Years 12 to 20.
4.        The evaluation of incremental net benefits included two elements: (a)
benefits from 12,000 farmers expected to use investment credit (3,250 irrigated
farms and 8,750 rainfed farms) equivalent to 31.5% of the 38,000 beneficiaries
in the project area; and (b) an estimate for the incremental benefits accruing
to the remaining rainfed farmers who would be reached by the extension service
and who would adopt improved farming practices without using institutional
credit (7,000 or 27X of the remaining 26,100 rainfed farmers).
5.        Economic prices (Table 3.5) at the farmgate were derived for the main
traded goods, including cotton, maize, rice, sorghum and chemical fertilizers,
taking into account international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing
and handling costs with price trends projected according to those estimated by
the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projection Department at 1986 constant prices.
Cassava, beans and beef were valued at financial farm-gate prices. All other
outputs and inputs (including labor) were adjusted by the standard conversion
factor (0.83) to account for domestic price distortions.
6.        Sensitivity tests (Table 3.6) showed that the rate of return is
moderately sensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. If benefits
fall by 18% or project costs rise by 22%, the rate of return would fall below
the estimated 11% opportunity cost of capital. A lag of three years in
achieving project results, such as might occur during a severe drought, would
result in a 10% rate of return. Also, a lag of two years in funding productive
investments combined with a decline of 20% in project benefits, such as might
result from chronic delays in counterpart funding, would result in a 9% rate of
return.



-46 -
3AZM
1A          NLfUST :Ir F M- K4Sw ~a1s
T.u  Amal. hmin u*na        raoict1m  adS Valu, at Shi  Crops a!d Llwta.* itId*" hoit  i at NUDsl~
I OM        mmteu                  Raf~~Nmlthe
Crops NA 1Lwso                 Arm I/  ?rta&adt        Am 1(  ?rtiSaon    AMea 2/ rMmtla               %lue
(he        (tnB)        (h)        (')         (ha        (O)       (Clt gil
aslMM  Ad S4 m,   -                         -           -           -           -           -          2.3.8
Ctt=a (Sod)              - -- T7; ;,    ; (6w  ?4) -1
1M                           -          29,437                   *,781       -          19,344       31.0
3                                       11,604      -         21,850        -         10,2A6         1.9
Ridan                        -          1,838        -          2,344        -            506         1.3
Rim                         9,818       3,136       11,973     14,444       21         11,0          27.1
aeav (freh To*)             8,s         44,021      10,917      89,078      2,089      45,050        15.8
So,fu.                       -           -          6,692       17,400      6,692      17,400        22.6
haut                         -           -          6,692       8,70o       6,692       8,700        33.9
Conk                         -           -            250         90          250         900        22.5
TM                           -           -            250       6,500         250       6,500        16.3
Palo"  C                        -           -          39016        -          3,016        -           981
-                                                                5 -   1,348  S,237  1,348  5,;      26
-           -             75       1,090         75        1,090         3.1
3mm  -      -             75       2,250         75        2,250         34
Wiu~p1a                      -           -          1,518      23,581       1,518      23,581        70.7
--.-  C                       68,874        -         91,167        -         22,293        -          341.9
VW  (         "dot)          -                       -          7,115        -         7;           b7!
k.C('OO   ter)               -          7,082        -         43,417        -         36,335        83.6
Lo     14aLgt                   0           -           -           _           _           _          191.5
* _ _ _~*                         -           -           -           a-                  :3  43,
In hpFes Yw12
Am      r kdxd crqpi   (a,oetiun) camot be dlf vmtiated per crop
f4dvatmt to 29,6 198
Jam" 29, 196



rar .~~~ inut  w  -inm   u                                 6~
"Mt*   FUstr1ki(e Svat )                                                               I Ea
No      o  am        MD    W Olsniw SAe                            140)i Flmt                        litojo    r    r  fsa    lmcno    ftupo         W  
Pau _an.)                                      I
I   S,9w)           11   11      IN1                  It 1   SiLjlbt ess Qsa  -Ario    $5s                   195W           4             U)           3LO
2       slits      32   12    b1ded              _td I           -                   -         1,W           2,             i              7           1Ms.
3      2.VS         (S)   40    bid1              hdAk           -                  ' k5                     3,210        2.6SS           6             52 
4       2,16)       la    U)   btufi.             %dAmi                                        I  1m1        3.330        20               7            Wo
5      231)         1 1    ll 2 lsek-lrdmt    DA.            All                                 o nS        2.4         I.S7             4           33 -6
6        m          (S)    4 3/  Iatu  (MtIic)   ..            a   Xaff                          55         2,43)         1.6S    *                   43
dl irrltb2h m       lra
gq?   a a  to 31.51 ofd the smtclwtie rmtvv1a  ibtit4twolls  cvalt pIta 211 at tie tinriag rdztd famin We fgUt mpt 1qm  todil   ofta dtg mAMM  4d auilt.
lt)tbd Ind
.bmy  fh1



-48 -                                            3
NNDC 3
Pq I d 3
, L IE 11M
NWASE KM MYSLa%W FEl    - MWAS GAUS
Ead Ann an Yi  of or                   a C S L ea
Model                        Am  (ii.)               Crcp Pr Yed(1g
______      ~J!!m  U                   (8  rA.U. Aim)
1D      W            WD                             Zi.  o.e
Made 1 (Rdnfal  th D.A. 2/)          11*0  11.0
0bms. M s & s.o & lidus               IS    T3       950/45o/80     1250/58/O100           31/29/25
C'on Hub.                           0.7   0.3             So0             1025                  28
Rice0.4   0.4                                              900             1150                  28
0.4   0.6           8 t           10.5 tn                  31
Ssn%ma                               0.0   0.3           -                 2600                  -
Bmt                                  0.0   Q.3                             1300                  -
Pimaple                              0.0   0.1                            16 am
M'uOW                                 0.0   0.1          -                 6m00                  -
Patur/e                               4.5   3.9            1.4 3/          1.5 3/
Natie      stir                      2.9   2.3             ,2              .2                    -
Artifid   PasWr                       1.6   1.6            .5              .6                    20
;uah/Pallw and Othwr                  3.5   3.9
Model 2    ied & B/eeMlUk Cattle)  32.0  32.0
cow. Mi  & Beam                      m                 980/450          1300/580              33/29
Cotton Harb.                         0.9   0.5             800             1025                  28
Rice                                 0.6   0.6             900             1150                  28
coos"                                0.5   0.6           8 tUn         10.5 UDn                  31
Soihu                                0.0   0.5            -                2600                  -
Pa,                                  0.0   0.5            -                1300                  -
Maw                                  0.0   0.1            -                6000                  -
14.2  14.2                           15.S 3/
Nativ 1w 'u'                         -      -
Actifiial PastAre                    14.2  12.9            .5               .6                   20
PlantedFoa                           -      1.3           -                  6                   -
pmlb6O*w and odw                     13.6  12.8
I/ AU a- Ail   t
IA X * Drdt Alju
3/ Total  rry     fed    capadty in ALb



AIM 3
-    -                                   1   3.3
Pp 2 of 3
FIds                        kZAM (be)              cmP/I u YIJd (TX or A.U.l)
$0     IW           WD            If
dS1 3 (iAd  & bariUk Cattle)   5A.  40.0
-w                                   .   - -7
cmPs    ~~~~~~~30/  5.0
Giw. Mhl & Bm_  & Uldes             V     t2*2     950/45o/80    1o/s8/100              31/29/25
Oottm Iwb.                           .7   O.5            B00            1025                 a
RIce                                 .4   0.6            900             1150                28
CRUM                                 .4   0.6           -            10.5 tm                  -
Sor*,a                              -     0.5           _               2600
PNuit                               -     0.5           -                1300                 -
2.04/ 20.0           .4 3/         18.4 3/                -
Nitlve Pastuce                      2.0   9.0            .2              .2                   -
Artifiia PRstu                      -     9.5            -               .8                   -
PIatd  Ep                           -      1.5           -                6                   -
BW&F UM and Ot.a.                   -    15.0
-*dl 4 (Raihd & b/Milk Cattle)  70.0  70.0
itHBrb                              1.4   1.0            800             1025
Rice                                0.9   0.9            900             1150
msbIze & ua6 Rtlus                  2.4   2.4    950/450/80      1250/580/100           31/29/25
csva                                0.7   0.9          8 tl          10.5 tm                 31
8SWgU                               0.0   0.6            -              26h0                 -
peamit                              0.0   0.6            -               1300                -
PInwuppIe                           0.0   0.1            -             16on 
0.0   0.1           -               60QQ                 -
Pague/form:                        43.0  43.0          20.9 3/         36.6 3/
Nbtive Pasture                      2.0   -              .2              -
Artificl Pastue                    41.0  41.0            .5              .6                  20
PIantu  eRas                        -     2.0            -                6                  -
btWFaUJw srd other                 21.6  20.4
2/
M1del 5 (Painftd/irrigated with D.A) 11.0  11.0
3.0   0.8
OIM14uize & barem   Ridn      N        51.    0.5  950/450/80    1250/580/100           31/29/25
Cattm Herb.                         0.7   0.0            800             -                   -
Rice                                0.4   0.0            900                       -         _
Cs"a                                0.4   0.3          8 tm          10.5 tom                31
Crop-Inl     :                      0.0   2.0
RIce                                n.0   1.2            -              3200                 -
We                                  0.0   0.8            -              4000                 -
Ram                                 0.0  (1.0)           -               950                 -
Gsrlc                               -    (0.1)           -              3600                 -
Taetoe                              -    (0.1)           -             24 ton                -
Pa"WO/Formi:                        4.5   4.5           1.4 3/          1.5 3/
Naive Pastue                         .9   2.9            .2              .2                  -
ktifiaw Pature                      1.6   1.6            .5              .6                  20
IbmWFPalIw Wi Othr                  3.5   3.7



-50-                                  A         3
Ta 3.3
Pa 3 of 3
ftdal                      Am (ha)              coPa     Yild (Kg or A.U./h)
10  II'       WD            14'lnczsaa
Mt6 (IvILt  wh D.A.)               5.04/ 4.0
3.04/ 0.0
O,iu!hM a& bw   RLcimu             1.5   0.0    950/45/80             -                   -
(3ttm Herb.                       0.7   0.0           800             -                   -
IJe                               0.4   0.0           900             -                   -
0.4   0.0         9 ton            _                   _
0.0   4.0
Q,ttxm i                          -                                  2002                 -
?bla.                             -      0.9            -            3800                 -
am=                               -    (3.0)                         1200                 -
PSeya                             -     0.1             -           19tmi                 -
Baum                              -     0.1             -          24 t                   -
ckm mtue                          -      0.9            -       _ _
2A04/ -             .4 3/ 
?miw P atur                        2.0   -             .2             -                   -
ah/l lnd NW                       -   -
I/ AU - h.= t.hdt.
2/ 1- raft M1ml
Total caryi&edbg  capdty In AUs
T ) secxi yealy crop



*We**** INa'susa us,06    a.... s  esas  ....  ass.  v9*sw an.. 55*3 ff23s3,43 3l**23 *east$sow""gt.  se.t$2   58a t  sta,ts,.I**  stat... $znsa...,..    ***attt  S#2
$1iCOU   miKt     MMes   *MUa  964sm9  HWUe   MMis   seMi  mOss               .sa    uwgg M   outsi   "WIp   ans    t*Ms.   ogstal* gaic -sa.icac  tUIg       - Musie*          %M311 Inm am umuum   lot"
"ata   ase    m6iss   SKIss   msl    mss   mess   SKIs    Otise sl                    wa    swalogic          wins.  mim-  iMM    igtiw sm il  iiac "M             stisM             SlIM  IVW UI    I 10"MI
...  .... ....  ................ .                .        .............-...   ...  ..............  ......  ......  ......  .... .s.                              i .......tin  m
-  .  .  -  .      .       .       .        .                -       sa      si~~~~~~~~~~l t  sit itt    iSi  sit  m          suiMiI  mIn io1111n91
6 5                  5        5       s        5       5       5        5       94       Ci      ot       It      ICt     A  Oamw       e  i        "it    Gm.    Stiwil
mu  mu  earn    mu    was    mu    mat   mat   was    wise    si   atata~ig at ta      att   magt.   asit    CMi    aSWs    talest item                     ms 1111SAsua1 n t"nl
susie8  mu   mste   Pui   asisft  asose   essM  MsWa     mmmi staUs  INSaa   I1ssue.  scaM   OMw    CMi                        "Wm-   M,-  SAMS-  Mats-  lsosg-             sesausm  owl weomuuisu  logo""'
*11s1M   susie  statue  "Son  stemi   CCUii ommi  OSWis  mii "OMe   "Oms   aosi  usMM   cum                           tutua   gait.us HOW   seMs   40w1   cmi                                            isusta
..e..u .   ......  I .......
(996! z4Ue3de9 lao op!ezu, xo uPwUSoq.l US)
s;OLT,uav uoumozas 3*40olj
SIVUZ9 MVIN - 13ZFOU JMWKOUIARa IVUI Ii SZIUOM1
MYUDU JMIMO'!Z&ZU vUfl J.$VUULOM
3IizvMI



-52 -                            ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
Principal Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analyses
(in Constant September 1986 prices)
Farmgate Prices (Cz$)
Selected Products                Unit  Financial            Economic
Export and Import Substitute  Products  1986    1986   1987   1990   1995
Cotton (seed)                      Kg     5.00    3.37   4.51   5.97   7.47  s
Maize                              Kg      1.60    2.58   2.22   2.79   2.80
Rice (paddy)                       Kg     2.40    2.90   2.91   3.38   3.31
Sorghum                            Kg     1.30    2.38   2.18   2.71   2.72
Non Traded Products
Cassava (fresh root)              Ton   350.00    --350.00-
Beans                              Kg     8.00      - ---8.00 ----
Beef                               Kg    16.70    ------ 16.70
Imported Inputs
Urea (45% N)                       Kg     2.80    3.18   3.28   4.63   4.43
Triple Super Phosphate (45% P2o5)Kg       3.40    3.25   3.17   3.60   3.94
Potassium Chloride (60% K20)       Kg     2.60    2.52   2.48   2.77   2.94
All Other Inputs/Outputs:                            Financial Price x.83 I/
1/   Standard conversion factor
Source: Bank Mission and EPDDR Projections (January 1987)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS CERAIS
Project Sensitivity Analysis
MUNI1 1*16S 0f M1 SIf*3S Al * OIScOUl RtME   III
3101    lW IOS            W          S20   M  50S   EIU  tOS   MM 209    SOu5 sAG I 1t*I1 U6 2 tE*6S LAS 1 31#
CJUl          324. 352.4  192.2M  5  260.258.6  464.416.0   96.099.   -11.953.9  -216.333.3   SG6. 12.)   -4.044.5  -S1.1s61
UP ;*I         68.514.S  #36. 6 .8  204 620.      40t.8l.t    461.4  -St.Y59.8  -271.151.2    t.014.4  -59. W2.3 -It4.4112
UP 20x         12.W6) 6   60.929.?  f4a ,82.9  353.142.2  -SS. 16 5  -n3.22S. 1  -321.3M. 1  -54.SS3.4 -t1.320.2  -10.5 1O I
'9502         154.037 1 3  -0.964.0  -11,930.6   1   M26 S   m 02220.*2  29o. t43.3  -44. M02.  -22t. 4. 1 -22.  33. 9  -3t3 ON. 8
_6 tog        119I. M0 3  241.643- 4  31 5*65. S  S0.S59    it. t31.t t   43,64 .0 -10. 4t5.4  112350.2  I5AS13.4   -3.142.4
_0020M        23S.421.2  303.41 3  311 S34.4  556 39       3 61,3tm.o0   * 321 9 -104.631.9S  t6t9J.81   01,31.3  5W 2S. S
o_  50"       402.343.6  410.3SS  0  5364461  142 SOt.1S  S3)42& .1  20623.6   W.011.?  334.901.6  214 t4M.0  219.46 .2
t"c I it"             *                                                                  -  I110.0 o1.0902.2   -3.643.1
1*6211*81                        -          *                      -          -          -          -  10.1M.9   si0mo
UC 3 rAs                         -.         -          -           -          -          -          -          -   so. m. I
Itti1i*1 RAlfS OF 411611 tf KiI StEUS                                                                                  $
slOt     up fox     UP 202    tlP 502    _  lOt    _  202 9t  5021O  1* I It" tOC 2 SEARS ta3 1i    5                                 W
t101             12.9)8     13 80t      14.60S    is.602      IS.921     tO I90      S. t54    3I.851      t0.940     t0. 144
UP fOx           12.016     12 9 6      s 130      "5. 1`0    3. O0       9.865      S.395      11.016       . 1065    9.410
UP 20M           11.164     32095       t2.919     14.91      tO. IRS     9.014      4.314      10.241     9.434       6.137
uP S"             9.034       . 94      so. "      i2. 91      1.914      I. Sol     2.033      6.233      *.53        *. 002
_IN  30I         133900     34 175      t5.560     31.532     12. 016     K.W2       1.209      32 116     $3.602     10.3S
_  20M           14 919      5.835     I6.602 "     8. 501    14.0t5     t2.3918      .318     3&.194      t2.156        It.650
Bo5w 5x          19.030     19.792     20.40       22.112     36. 36at              12.936      31.616     t6.454     t5.354
LAG I TIM            -           -          -          -                      -          -     32.918      13.651     10.90
146 2 VIM                                              -                      -          -                 t2.94t     1.65
LAG 3 tEARS           -          -          -          -           -          -          -          -          -      t.tt1
3a:: 3:333:3::S533333$S3
516(8KtS 1*161               1*t161      atlCmla
SlilfUll ~    AMI" tZicin    mmul
630l            6". S31. 30  SS1L 3  92      -6. 24M
tCOl            56. 3I1 92  6".%33.30         22. 332
not Pr"ent vl 1 *t aCC 3t3s 2124. I5. 4
IntOCnb  680 O f bltsna 12.92
Cotpn  qmiallet 6.3 of "Swan x 34%
0'



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPNENT PROGRhI
NORTHEA8T RURAL DEILOPHEUT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
PARALLEL ACTIVITIES
Plan for the Resettlement of non-Amerindian FJamlies
Formerly Residing in the Xakriaba Reservation (Nunicivalit   of Itacarambi)
- Issue: Resettlement of part of the 109 non-Indian families who formerly
occupied the Xabriaba Reservetion and were forced by the Indians
themselves to leave their farms. They have been since indemnified
by the State Government and resettled in urban lots In the
municipality of Itacarambi*
Funds
Required (Cs$)
Executing     and Source
Action                      Deadline            Agency      of Funding
- Selection of land to be
expropriated for the
resettlement of non-Indian     October 86 (A) 1/   INCRA        20,000-INCRA
- Approval of the selection
by the State's Agrarian                             Agrarian
committee                      November 86 (A)      Committee      -
- Analysis of the
expropriation proposal         December 86 (A)      INCRA          -
- Preparation of the
Expropriation Decree for       January 87 (A) (A) MIRAD            -
Signing
- Indemnification of Fazenda
Ressaca's owners               February/March 87 3/ INCRA       3,805 666-INCRA
- Demarcation of the area
to be resettled                April/may 87 3/      INCRA       1,108,315-INCRA
- Indemnification of
Reservation former occupants   Feb./April 87 (A)   RURALMINAS  3,018,189
RURALMINAS
- Resettlement of former non-
Intdian occupants              may 87 3/            INCRA       2,325,084-INCRA
- Resettlement Follow-up         May-December 87 3/  INCRA        116,129-INCRA
Total                               -                -          10,393,383  /
1/  Yasenda RESSACA (6,739 ha) In the munielpality of Hanga
T/ In CO$ of December 1986
TI Deadlines likely to be postponed due to judicial action inAtiated In
February 1987 by the Fasenda Ressaca's owners
(A) eanes: actual



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MIMAS GERAIS
Documents Available in Project File
1. Selected Bank Reports and Studies on Northeast Brazil:
- World Bank Report 3938-BR "Rural Development Program. for Brazil's
Northeast: An Interim Assesement,' February 7, 1985.
World Bank Report 5350-BR "Northeast Rural Development I Project
(Sergipe)," March 12, 1985.
- World Bank Report 5349-BR "Northeast Rural Development II Project (Rio
Grande do Norte)," April 8, 1985,
- World Bank Report 5360-BR 'Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement
Project," May 31, 1985.
- World Bank Report 6118-BR 'Northeast Rural Development Project -
Pernambuco," May 1986.
- World Bank Reports 5709, 6117 and 6135-BR "Northeast Rural Development
Projects - Bahia, Piaui and Ceara," September 1986.
2. State Government of Minas Gerais (1985 and November 1986)
Volume I    -  General Presentation (1985):
Part 1: Introduction
Part 2: The Northeast Region of Minas Gerais
Part 3: The Small Farmer
Part 4: Program Strategy
Part 5: Targets and Costs
Part 6: Project Coordination
Volume II   - Land Tenancy (1985 and 11/1986)
Volume III  - Water Resource Development (1985 and 11/1986)
Volume IV   -  Rural Extension (1985 and 11/1986)
Volume V    -  Agricultural Research (1985 and 11/1986)



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Volume VI   -  Rural Credit (1985)
Volume VII  -  Marketing (1985 and 11/1986)
Volume VIII - Support to Small Rural Communities (1985 and 11/1986)
Volume IX   -  Project Administration (1985 and 11/1986)
Part 1:  Coordination
Part 2:  Training
Part 3:  Institutional Analysis
Volume X    -  Farm Models (1985 and 11/1986 - draft only)
ANNEXES - Feasibility Studies for Public Irrigation Schemes (Vereda Grande
and Jose Custodio)
3.  IBRD, SUDENE, MINTER and State Government of Minas Gerais: "Minutes of
Understanding," December 1986.
4.  IBRD Supplementary Staff Working Papers
(a)  Water Resource Development
(b) Support to Small Communities
(c) COSTAB Documents
(d) FARMOD Documents
(e) Economic Analysis



NOTES
_     _ONMOW



MAP SECTION



48-                           44'                           4O 
BRAZIL
NATIONAL LAND ADMINISTRATION PROGRAM
NORTHEAST REGION LAND TENURE            f
0                    IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                          BRAZIL
PARA                                YEARLY LAND ADJUDICATION OPERATIONS     <
K  /  H.                                             <.E  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rsilids 
Siouth ~'America
L
/N  X A~~~~~~~~~~~~I *                 OnG_ t                         ) ~r 
t~~~~ ~~ *A^t--ot  
S   >                 .     ffi  ws         \             ow   ot    Rl@'GRANS. 8 'To
2~~~~~~~~~~~ Cwne                       r            M A W A <
I                       I~~~~ck
0          __CV*rR A
- At~~~~~~;~- -
~~~ -                  / ~~~~~RiO,'GRAN1DE  &
-7~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  -~~~~~~~   ~PA                    A
PlAt)+~
0                       IAiVw



r  ~         ~r                         /                                                                     BU W d.  PO
A..                                                              POA,-\.OJ.
. -,?-                          .-.d b                              4^va
.                                  *ALAGOAS
-~~~~~~~~~~~~M
/~~~~~~~~~~
SEGPE
Bono                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAMAJU
4  1z   rss r"/  o8r                                                  y    o~~~~~~Moo..ha        1
Ik-00~~~~~~
S. Aw, doJesu.,
-- t -  -           .                                                          ,   ,    Y ,tS"VA=
GQIA)S.                              ,        *. . b          ov o 0                                       YProiedBoundary
Gois                              S.map z _ e "y
0-loquil                  ~~~~~Land atdjudication:
CF  ~~~~~~~~~7CYeaw 0
...: Year 1
6& do Co.nqusto                  ______ Year 2
N                                                     aYear 3
-r*                                                0R                                                       Landdjonudication undor
cn mw az flat "7b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   enj   Ak:
a                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omer proectds
f-~->         iw 2                                                                      _A f Nuci o; Centers 
F.D.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j~~~~~~~~BRAShUA                                                                        @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ state CapitalsI-
SoeBoundatries
cwp~ Te ^W ieo                             MIASER I
m Oft ffW do IsO M*.                                                                          WD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  200  300 KILOMUElTS
>     T*r~wdh
&w> ga ta h IO fk  wCe   Co&e* n_                                                                                        _ _  __  _  _ __  _  _
e mw V " m ew   a c f rm   o   EIs~                                                                                                 S O2            6     M L E
.< ~~~~eershotyorev~~~~~AW
4W                                                                                                   36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  0MW
1 ~c  4



480                            417                            *                              450
-140
GQIAS  )        BAHIA
150
470
GOGOS                          A AHIA                                 TJoo P'nheiro
( FEDERAi DISTRICT       . Uba
ARE
MINAS       GERAIS      ESPIRiTO 
SANTO~~~~~~~~~~~
J                            /SANTB                                       ,. 170
HORIZONTE<
sAo PAULO
Buvitier 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rapor7<os 
\VENEZUE~J'    FR H1GUIANA
COLOMBIAj I "                                                                                            Vdrze
GO k             H     I                                            To- Job PineR                     PaIn  A
-'GUYANA' SU'RINAMEdPamA 
To Patos 
t{</ RJEC )                                                          .A 
B RAZL   \  Northeast                                                                       La
~l Region      8
PERU                            rec-                                                                       -
BOLIIA     RASLIA                                                                                  -T 8
MMNAS            rm~wr    by
P PARA G
\ #              )                                                    d Mfnos XF           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 6
i                        )                                                          A.;*")$\ 
ARGENTINA
P\URUGUAY                                              460 *0



IBRD 20381
440                               430                              42"                               4 ?
B R A Z I L
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                        14-
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
A                                  2, Rf PROJECT AREA
5Mon  /  | o                                           NORTHEAST REGION OF MINAS GERAIS
~A  I>M"',mbb"
,AAAj
11  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
Brdi
do Mmas~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ga
dojeus *~~0 dClPra.
dMw                                                                                                            STT CAPITA
de01                                                                       Vexs^   o>   P<o /Vldares
I BJJ r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sarro.  O l /
MUNICIPAL BO    S    ESPIRTO
KJ Dumorwt V ftJ   9                                                                             ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SANTO
,P.3t.  8  -P ROJECT AREA BOUNDARY SEXTENSIVE ACTIONI        B
UPROJECTATPEA (INTENSIVERACTION) SHM
s_                         - AREA FORMERLY COVERED BY
*   NEMG- PROJECT (LOAN 1877-BRU NIT
_A,  i    ,>F   iN  REGIONAL OFFICES OF SETAS-MG            INTETIN   BOUNDARIES
*   COOPERATIVE CENTERS ~ ~   ~      ~       SEECTD RAD
42   \ fiF                      ~~~~~~~~A SUB-REGIONAL OFFICES OF SUDENOR                    SLCE  OD
.;t                              ^  ~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL OFFICES OF EMATER-MG                MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
t  t                                  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LOCAL OFFICES OF EMATER-MG               0 STATE CAPITAL
f   FIELD STATIONS OF EPAMIG                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL          18NT
KILOMETES                                        MN B                 SUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
,to Horizonte                                    '         AMERIOLIAN RESERVATION
Oi  FUTURE STATE PUBLIC IRRIGATION SCHEMES             -    SAEBUDRS
Xv NEW STORAGE/PROCESSING UNITS                              REGION BOUNDARY
*   COOPERATIVE CENTERS   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ^-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           COPEATV CENTERS
&  &  .J_ .   J                      O~~~~~~~ SOIUWATER CONSERVATION DEMONSTRATION ,INITS
KILOMETERS                       --  ~~~~~~MICRO REGION BOUNDARIES
440                             430                              42                          / 41
MARCH 1987



48                                   4-7-                                  416                                    450
GOAS  4)           BAHIA
GOIAS                                                                                                            /
..   _.-              ..   K              (
f  FEDERAL DISTRICT %)
B BRASiLIAe                        )                   \
'  "--   *-*-7                    ~~~                                       ~~~~~~~47  / 
-           ~~~~~-16   ',
I                          :A                                                         To Joao Prnheiro
BRASIltA( e ,       /      PROJECT >,
AREA
MiNAS          GERAIS        'ESPIRiTO
/ SANTO
sAO PAULO
RIODE
.,   <..   J ./ANEIRO                                                                                                   M
\VENEZUE,A   /    flRyGUIANA                                                                                          /                (
-'-rUYANA  SURINAME
N
TO  Pat,s                      .
3;   e;   I                                                     de Minos
8 R A Z I L        ortheost        18
PERU
(Proiect
IArea
BOLIVIA           8 IRASiUA                                                                                                       T
- ;  r    t  MIbAyS                                                                     Tres Mac,,s
'GERAIS;               1~ef~
7CHILE'--< ARAG'6,,                                 WI*- 0* k;thRS
"Cf'    /       >    )00 ,                                  1_Mf-w*~                                               (r'.s     ) 
|  ARGENTINA    2                                                                      :      '
OCLAN                                                                U           t
_,  L   ;URu;Ar  _  er=_d      4i1          Z        > -'| 'It,   I I
'\URU2UAY__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                 _ _ _



44'        /30                                                      420                              4AP
B R A  7 l L
.1 y           NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
/I         NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - MINAS GERAIS
AGRICULTURAL POTENTIAL DEFINED BY DEPENDABLE RAINFALL
NORTHEAST REGION OF MINAS GERAIS
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d Minas
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
1,,,,, 1  V      -S  /   1}   0                         \
bwbrk~~      ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          SANTO) 
S=                                                                          om '  ador,y,,_<>v
:              /                                                                                    ! f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(SPIRITO
.'          J                         P                                                                                            SANTO
CLASSIFICATION:   DESCRIPTION: 
0  g   9 /  2 VERY ARID'  NOT SUITED FOR RAIN-FED AGRICULTURE          =    SELETED   ADS
SELECTED ROADS
(j /  CgARID          LIMITED SUITABILITY FOR RAIN-FED AGRICULTURE     0   MUNICIPAL CAPITALS
Z] SEMI-ARID          PRODUCTION POSSIBLE FOR CROPS REQUIRING          *   STATE CAPITAL
A 3 TO 4 MONTHS GROWING SEASON                  *   NATIONAL CAPITAL            18
WET-DRY,        PRODUCTION POSSIBLE FOR CROPS                         MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
*I* Horizonte                                               REQUIRING A GOOD LEVEL Of MOISTURE
ADEQUACY DURING 5 OR MORE MONTHS                     STATE BOUNDARIES
-- - - REGION BOUNDARY
'THESE CIASSIFICATIONS ARE NOT FOUND
IN THE NORTHEAST REGION OF MINAS GERAIS.       --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
25     50      75      100
KILOMETERS                                            (HARGREAVES, 1974)
44                             430                                42 0                            41
ARC(1 1987



