Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FILE  Cur 
Report No. P-3036-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR THE
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =      Sucre (S/.)
Calendar 1980         April 1, 1981
US$1                 S I/. 25               S/. 25
SI. 1   =            US$0.04                US$0.04
S/. 1,000            US$40.00               US$40.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF       -      Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
DINACE    -      Direccion de Construcciones Escolares
(Directorate of School Construction)
FONADRI   -      Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Rural Integral
(Integrated Rural Development Fund)
IDB       -      Interamerican Development Bank
IEOS      -      Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
(Ecuadorian Institute of Sanitary Works)
IERAC     -      Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion
(Ecuadorian Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization)
INIAP     -      Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAG       -      Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MOP       -      Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
SEDRI     -      Secretaria de Desarrollo Rural Integral
(Integrated Rural Development Secretariat)
USAID     -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Ecuador
Amount:                    US$20.0 million
Terms:                     Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
about 9.6 percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms            The proceeds of the proposed loan for the credit
for Agricultural           component would be on-lent in Sucres to the National
Credit Components:         Development Bank (BNF) on the same terms as the
Bank loan, while the Government's contribution to
the credit component would be in the form of a
17-year interest-free loan.
Project Description:       This project aims at improving the productivity,
income and general living conditions of 10,000
poor rural families (about 65,000 persons) living in
the western foothills of Ecuador's Andes. Project
components include (i) extension, credit and other
agricultural support services; (ii) regularization
of land tenure; (iii) construction and improvement
of rural roads; and (iv) provision of potable water,
primary health care services and school facilities.
Special Risks:             The main risk which this project faces is an institu-
tional one.  Ecuador's agricultural public sector
has traditionally been weak and uncoordinated,
resulting in frequent delays in project execution.
Close supervision and technical assistance have
been included in the proposed project to help compen-
sate such risks. Additionally, the Government has
established a Secretariat for Integrated Rural
Development in order to provide the coordination
that is needed for this type of multi-sector project.
This new agency is expected to facilitate this
project's execution.
This document has arestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
ther official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign    Total
--------US$ million--------
(a) Extension Service                 3.9          1.4         5.3
(b) Credit                            9.1          3.9        13.0
(c) Land Tenure Regularization        0.9          0.2          1.1
(d) Feeder Roads                      6.3          4.8        11.1
(e) Health Services                   1.3          0.3          1.6
(f) Water and Sanitation              0.7          0.6          1.3
(g) School Construction               1.3          0.9          2.2
(h) Project Administration            0.6          0.1         0.7
Baseline Costs                   24.1         12.2        36.3
Contingencies:  Physical          2.9          1.4         4.3
Price          11.1          5.4         16.5
Total Project Costs              38.1         19.0        57.1
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
----- --TUS$million …--------
Bank                                  1.0         19.0         20.0
Government                           33.8            -         33.8
Beneficiaries                         3.3           _           3.3
Total                           38.1         19.0        57.1
Estimated Disbursements:
1982  1983   1984    1985    1986    1987   1988
------- US$ million by Bank Fiscal Year --------
Annual         0.1   3.5    4.5       3.9      4.0      2.2    1.8
Cumulative    0.1   3.6    8.1    12.0    16.0    18.2   20.0
Rate of Return:    The economic rate of return is estimated at 18 percent for
the components of the project with directly quantifiable
benefits, which represent 86 percent of the total costs
of the project.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 3278-EC, dated April 13, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR THE
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to help
finance the Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project. The loan would be
repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6
percent per annum. The proceeds of the proposed loan earmarked for agri-
cultural credit would be on-lent in Sucres by the Borrower to BNF on the
same terms as the Bank loan, while the Government's contribution to the
credit component would take the form of a 17-year interest-free loan to BNF.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 2373-EC
entitled "Development Problems and Prospects of Ecuador: Special Report"
was distributed to the Executive Directors on June 18, 1979. An economic
mission visited Ecuador in November 1980 and is now preparing an economic
report. This President's Report combines the main conclusions of the
published economic report with the findings of the recent economic mission.
Annex I summarizes the main social and economic indicators.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the poorest and least
developed Latin American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploita-
tion of petroleum in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom. From
1970 to 1978, Ecuador's economy grew at an average annual rate of close to
8.0 percent. Since then, the rate of growth has decreased to 4.4 percent owing
to (i) sagging private investment because of political uncertainties; and
(ii) declining petroleum output.
4.        During 1979 and 1980, private investment stagnated, as businessmen
awaited the outcome of elections -- the first in a decade -- and, later, the
definition of economic policies to be carried out by the Government which took
office August 10, 1979. These factors contributed to a slowdown of private
investment which only increased at an average annual rate of 4.3 percent during
those two years, compared to 19.1 percent per annum in the previous five years.
The decline of economic activity would have been greater had it not been for a
substantial improvement in the terms of trade during the last three years, as
oil prices nearly tripled between 1978 and 1980.
Social Development
5.        Despite the rapid economic growth which has led to the country's present
relatively high per capita income -- US$1,050 in 1979 -- much of the Ecuadorian
population continues to live in poverty and economic and social dualism remains
one of the country's salient features. While the statistical evidence is scanty,
it indicates that about 40 percent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural



- 2 -
population live in absolute poverty. Although a sizeable urban middle class
has emerged, income distribution -- even in urban areas -- is skewed. The
latest data available -- a survey undertaken in Quito and Guayaquil in 1977 --
shows that in these two cities, of the total income earned by the cities'
residents, about 8 percent went to the lowest third of the city's population
and about 70 percent of the income to the highest third. These two cities
account for about 23 percent of the total population and hence provide an
indication of national conditions. The growth of population, which is esti-
mated at 3.3 percent per year, will continue to strain the ability of the
Government to alleviate poverty through the provision of social services.
6.        Most of the important reasons for Ecuador's skewed distribution of
income are structural and of long standing. The two most significant are:
(i) highly concentrated ownership of land and other productive resources;
and (ii) unequal access to public services, especially education, health and
technical assistance.
7.        With regard to the ownership of land -- perhaps the single most
important resource in Ecuador -- 60 percent of the economically active rural
population derives its livelihood from only 11 percent of the land. The farms
that this population occupies are small -- less than 5 hectares -- and of the
poorest quality. Low levels of education, primitive cultivation techniques,
scarce use of technical inputs and limited access to credit and commercial market-
ing result in low productivity and incomes. On average, farms over 10 hectares
produce anywhere from 1.3 to 2 times more than smaller farms and the income of
many small farmers barely reaches subsistence levels.
8.        Growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and rural upper classes.
Public expenditures have been concentrated in urban centers. Tentative estimates
indicate that only about 25 percent of total public investment has been channeled
into rural areas (e.g., for agricultural development, education), where 59 per-
cent of the total population and most of the country's poor live. These estimates
also show that per capita public expenditures were 5.5 times higher in the modern
sector of the economy than in the traditional one.
9.        The benefits of education  are unequally distributed. According
to official statistics, illiteracy in urban areas is around 6 percent versus
around 38 percent in rural areas. Indians, which constitute about one-third
of the population, live primarily in the rural areas, especially in the Sierra
region. While Indians speak their own languages and have their own cultural
patterns and value systems, the Spanish language and Western culture pre-
dominate in the public schools as well as in local administration and businesses.
10.       The Ecuadorian administration is aware of the need to pursue a
development policy with a strong social component. In the rural areas, the
strategy of rapid agricultural growth is now accompanied by an emphasis on
integrated rural development. According to the Government's 1980-84 Develop-
ment Plan, public outlays for agriculture are programmed to more than double
during the five-year period in real terms over the preceding five-year
period. The organization of public services for the rural sector is also
under revision. These and related measures are intended to provide the basis
for more effective programs in the rural sector in the years ahead.



- 3 -
Basic External and Internal Financial Equilibria
11.       During 1972-80, imports increased at an average rate of 10.2 per-
cent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were: (i) the
high investment rates achieved during the earlier part of the period and the
related demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial and
transport sectors; (ii) the steep demand for inputs by the industrial
sector; and (iii) lately, the growing demand for some agricultural products.
These imports have been stimulated in part by the high rate of growth of
the country, but also by the relative low price of imported goods as a result
of an exchange rate that has remained constant since 1971.
12.       Real exports of goods on the other hand increased annually by
only 2.2 percent during 1972-80. Export earnings increased mainly because
world prices for Ecuador's exports went up. During 1978 and 1979, especially,
the recovery in world prices of the country's main agricultural exports --
bananas, coffee and cacao -- contributed to keeping exports earnings high.
During 1980, coffee and cacao declined, but the price of oil increased by
42.6 percent, adding an estimated US$456.3 million to the foreign earnings
of Ecuador.
13.       Thanks mainly to these favorable developments in oil prices, the
current account deficit in 1980 was held down to the equivalent of 4.1 percent
of GDP. Moreover, because of a rapid increase in net borrowing, international
reserves increased by approximately US$150 million in 1980 and towards the end
of that year stood at US$827 million, equivalent to three months of imports
of goods and   non-factor services.  These levels of reserves mask an increas-
ingly serious external equilibrium problem. Ecuador could begin to encounter
significant import capacity constraints beginning in 1985 if the volume of
exports does not increase, as is discussed in para. 17.
14.       Income gains in the 1970's, coupled with a slow growth of the
domestic supply of food, resulted in inflationary pressures. Monetary
and credit policy, price controls and heavy imports of food staples helped to
curb these pressures. From mid-1977 to mid-1979, the monetary authorities
introduced restrictive monetary policies which resulted in a declining rate of
growth of money supply. Net credit to the private sector from the consolidated
banking sector followed the same pattern of deceleration during that period.
As a consequence, the annual rise in consumer prices did not surpass 11 percent
in the period 1977-79. In the last 18 months, however, monetary policies have
been less restrictive, and the rate of growth of both money supply and credit
have expanded significantly, adding to inflationary pressures. Moreover,
during 1980 a doubling of the minimum wage (decreed by Congress), well above
the increases in productivity and consumer prices during the previous twelve
months, contributed to an estimated 15 percent rise in consumer prices.
15.       Fiscal policies in the last four years have been expansionary.
Following a public sector deficit equivalent to 9.8 percent of GDP in 1977,
the Government imposed budgetary restraints on public investment. These
restraints together with a doubling of world petroleum prices in 1979, helped
to bring the fiscal deficit down to 2.4 percent of GDP in that year. In 1980,
however, the newly installed Congress approved a budget higher than that
proposed by the Administration which increased expenditures of the Central
Government by over 30 percent in real terms, increasing the Central Govern-
ment deficit to an estimated 4.3 percent of GDP.



- 4 -
16.       Since the fiscal deficit was financed by external borrowings,
public external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was about twice that
of 1977. Moreover, the terms, maturity and grace periods of the newly
contracted debt hardened as most of it was provided by commercial sources.
Ecuador's debt-service ratio increased from 4.5 percent in 1975 to 11.8
percent in 1978. The Government made efforts to soften the accumulated debt
by being more careful in the choice of foreign credits and, at the beginning
of 1979, was able to renegotiate US$454 million -- or about one quarter of its
foreign debt -- contracted with commercial banks on the least advantageous
terms. Pre-payment of these hard-term loans during 1979 raised the debt-
service ratio for that year to 29.6 percent. This ratio excluding the one-time
debt prepayment would have been only about 10.7 percent -- among the lowest in
the Latin American region.
17.       Ecuador's future must be viewed with some caution.  Even though
the foreign earnings of Ecuador have grown at an average rate of 23.8 percent
per annum since 1972 because of rising world prices--especially for petroleum--
the volume of exports has increased by only 2.2 percent per year. More signif-
icantly, exports of petroleum, which now account for 54 percent of all exports,
have been decreasing owing to: (1) slowly declining output; and (2) increased
domestic consumption encouraged by low domestic prices for gasoline and other
petroleum products. Nevertheless, petroleum could still provide the country
with substantial amounts of foreign exchange well into the late eighties if:
(a) oil reserves are expanded through exploration; and (b) domestic consump-
tion is curbed as a result of recent steep increases in domestic prices of
petroleum derivatives.  The Government has taken some important steps in these
directions, as mentioned in para 21.
Sectoral Developments
18.       Agriculture accounted for 14 percent of GDP in 1980, a decline from
23 percent in 1972. This sector has been practically stagnating since 1974,
averaging an annual increase of growth of only 1.5 percent between 1974 and
1980. Specific constraints to sector growth are discussed in Part III of this
report.
19.       The manufacturing sector of Ecuador expanded by 11.2 percent per
year between 1972 and 1980, and at present it accounts for 18.0 percent of
GDP. Nevertheless, linkages between Ecuadorian industry and other sectors of
the economy are weak. Predominantly privately owned, industry has been largely
geared to import-substitution in consumer goods, and has been operating in a
strongly protected environment.  This has deflected entrepreneurs' interest
from utilizing the country's natural resources. Moreover, the system of
investment incentives has biased relative prices against labor and hence
has induced adoption of capital intensive modes of production. As part of the
Bank's policy dialogue with the Government, measures to change these policies
have been discussed. In particular, it may be necessary to modify import
tariffs and other policies which encourage imports, as well as to revise export
incentives and interest rate policies in order to strengthen sectors with more
favorable export prospects and to reduce the incentives for establishing
inefficient industries. The final design and implementation of these policies
could have an important effect on restructuring the industrial sector, and
should result in a more efficient growth pattern.



20.       Petroleum production on a major scale began in Ecuador in 1972.
Increases in international prices since 1973 considerably enhanced the sector's
role in the economy: in 1979 it contributed 15.5 percent to Ecuador's GDP,
accounted for 49 percent of export earnings and 26 percent of current Central
Government revenues. Production has averaged about 70 million barrels per
year since 1973. The Government has been concerned about dwindling petroleum
reserves and in February 1981 announced it would give priority attention to
increased exploration and secondary recovery. Expansion of known reserves
through adequate exploration efforts is essential to permit increased produc-
tion but the national petroleum company, CEPE, has been short of funds because
oil export revenues have, in the past, largely been diverted to other uses
rather than financing needed investment in exploration. Furthermore, CEPE's
refining capacity has been insufficient to meet local demand of some products
and the company's imports of final products (e.g. gasoline and diesel fuel) at
world prices have cost it as much as US$200 million a year.
21.       During the latter part of the seventies, the amount of petroleum
available for export declined annually because of rapidly rising domestic
consumption. By 1979, one-third of Ecuador's petroleum was consumed domes-
tically compared to one-seventh in 1973. The growth rate of this consumption,
which reached 16 percent, has begun to slow down as a result of lower GDP
growth. Also, the Government is now attempting to curb domestic demand by
reducing consumer price subsidies. Specifically the Government raised domestic
prices of petroleum derivatives across the board in February 1981. The price of
regular-grade gasoline which had been selling for US$.20 a gallon since 1972 was
raised to US$.60 a gallon. Other fuels, similarly underpriced until now, have
had their prices doubled on average. These and other energy conservation
measures--doubling import taxes on energy-inefficient vehicles for example--will,
in addition to reducing the growth of demand of domestic consumption, curb
contraband sales to neighboring countries. Recently, the Government has also
prepared new draft contracts in an attempt to renew foreign interest in petroleum
exploration. Finally, CEPE has managed to add marginally to reserves -- now
estimated at about one billion barrels -- by drilling a few successful wells.
These actions are expected to free more oil for export and increase government
revenues by an estimated US$240 million to be used in exploration and improvement
of social services.
Summary and Outlook
22.       During most of the past decade, the Government of Ecuador directed
the proceeds of petroleum exports to investment projects which generally
corresponded to real needs of the Ecuadorian economy and society. It also
fostered a climate conducive to private investment which in turn stimulated
the process of industrialization. The Government's use of incentives, however,
was largely inappropriate and ineffective for developing the agricultural
sector and generating employment. Serious distortions have occurred in the
past resulting from the very low prices for domestic petroleum consumption.



- 6 -
23.       The current Government, which inherited a host of economic problems,
has taken some corrective measures. The most important of all was the tripling
of domestic gasoline prices and doubling of prices of other petroleum products.
But the Government has also taken steps to bring other prices more in line with
market conditions. In mid-1980 it raised the price of several agricultural
products; in 1981 it increased interest rates--albeit slightly--and it has been
considering lowering export duties on raw cocoa to encourage its production.
These are steps in the right direction and should encourage exports, agricul-
tural production and domestic savings.
24.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.
To develop this potential fully and efficiently, continued adjustments in the
country's economic policies are needed. The Government is aiming at a 6.5
percent annual growth GDP for the 1980-1984 period. Whereas this goal seems
overambitious, a 5 percent annual rate of growth of GDP through 1985 is attain-
able provided that the country is able to maintain its level of petroleum
exports at around 40 million barrels per year (compared to an average of 54
from 1975 to 1979). At present the country's foreign debt is manageable
and the Government has taken the initial steps to increase exploration and
curb domestic consumption of petroleum.  As a result, Ecuador continues to
be creditworthy for Bank borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
25.       Bank group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. In all, the Bank and IDA have extended 26
loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$439.1 million net of cancella-
tions. As of March 31, 1981, US$229.3 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has made six loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large
textile company and one each in a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining
company and a pulp and paper firm. The IFC has also purchased capital shares
in COFIEC, a development finance company. These operations have amounted
to US$27.9 million in commitments of which IFC now holds US$22.8 million.
26.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic
and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC operations as of March 31, 1981, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
27.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 41 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport



- 7 -
were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the expan-
sion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power, which accounts for 4 percent
of total Bank lending, has aimed at improving generation and distribution
facilities in Quito. The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67,
marked the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program
away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made eight other
loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, four DFC loans and one loan
for small-scale enterprise credit to support industrial development, a credit
and a loan for education, one loan each for water supply and urban develop-
ment and two technical assistance loans. Bank Group support for technical
assistance and for the directly productive and social sectors has grown to the
point where it now accounts for about 55 percent of total Bank and IDA lending.
28.       Turning to the future, Bank lending will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effectively;
and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor.
In addition to the proposed rural development project, the Bank is preparinig
a third rural development operation, a power transmission project, a loan for
petroleum development and a fishing port operation. Most of these projects
would have important institution building aspects and include sizable technical
assistance components.
29.        Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
has been by far the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans from
IDB to the country as of December 31, 1980 totalled almost US$651 million
equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agriculture,
health/sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the country
have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2 percent
interest, a 10 year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is
likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender in the immediate
future with power, agriculture and socially-oriented projects continuing to
account for a large share of its lending program. USAID, which previously
lent Ecuador US103.6 million equivalent, made no new commitments to the country
between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however, this agency renewed its operations
in the country, concentrating its program in the rural and urban development
sectors and providing about US$30 million in new loans and grants.
30.       As of December 31, 1979, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt,
including undisbursed, amounted to about US$3.1 billion. Bank Group lending
constituted about 9 percent of this amount and absorbed about 2 percent of the
Government's 1979 external debt service. IDB lending was equivalent to about
13 percent of Ecuador's debt and USAID accounted for another 3 percent. Assuming
increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral debt, by 1985 the
Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt could reach 17 per-
cent and its share in debt service could climb to around 12 percent.



- 8 -
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
General Characteristics
31.       Agriculture remains one of the most important sectors of the
Ecuadorian economy even though it has stagnated while the petroleum and
industrial sectors have been growing rapidly. While agriculture's contribution
to GDP had dropped from 23 percent in 1972 to 14 percent in 1980, it is still
the single most important source of employment, absorbing close to half of the
labor force. Agricultural exports still accounted for 26 percent of total
exports in 1980, although their importance had declined from 75 percent of
total exports in 1970.
32.       Ecuadorian agriculture has been growing at only 1.5 percent per
annum in the last six years. Higher growth has been constrained by inadequate
infrastructure (mostly roads), insufficient credit availability, world market
price fluctuations for main export crops, limited farm-level technical guidance,
and Government intervention in the marketing of certain agricultural products
resulting in low farmgate prices for these. This last factor has helped to
discourage domestic food production, which grew at only 1.9 percent annually
between 1972 and 1978 as compared to the population increase of 3.3 percent
per annum. As a result, food imports -- mainly wheat, vegetable oils, animal
fats and dairy products -- have risen sharply. Furthermore, subsidies on
imported foodstuffs, introduced to stabilize food prices to consumers, have
benefited higher income groups more than others and discouraged local produc-
tion of substitutes. The Government is considering politically viable means
of spurring agricultural sector output but has so far moved cautiously.
In 1980, for example, farmgate prices for rice, whole milk and sugar were
raised. In general, however, agricultural marketing policies continue to be
unclear and inconsistent with the need to promote increases in production.
33.       Topographic and climatic conditions divide Ecuador into three
distinct agricultural regions. The tropical, generally humid and floodprone
Costa is where most of the country's agricultural exports--bananas, cocoa and
coffee--are grown. Sugar cane, beef ranching, rice, oil palm and fibers are
also concentrated in the Costa. Half of Ecuador's population lives in this
region, although some coastal areas are still being settled.  The second of
these regions is the densely populated Sierra where temperate climate food-
grains, potatoes, vegetables and deciduous fruits are grown.  Most of Ecuador's
dairy farms and sheep herds are also located in the Sierra. The third and
most isolated region is the sparsely populated Oriente, the rain forest to the
east of the Andes which is part of the Amazon basin. While the Oriente
presently contributes little to sectoral output, it is slowly being settled
and is known to have considerable potential for beef, rice, and oil palm
production.
34.       About 57 percent of Ecuador's population are rural dwellers and most
of these are also poor. An estimated 2.9 million of the 4.4 million persons
living in rural areas in 1979 had per capita incomes below the absolute
poverty level of US$183 per annum. Furthermore, there is evidence that small
farmers' incomes have experienced almost no growth during the past decade.



- 9 -
For instance, crop production has been the slowest growing agricultural
activity, compared to livestock and fisheries, and small-scale producers
predominate in this sub-sector. While other sources, such as non-farm
earnings and income transfers from urban relatives, may have augmented
the incomes of farm families, the core of rural incomes--farm production--
has been virtually stagnant for most small-scale farmers.
35.       Living conditions for most of Ecuador's rural population are pre-
carious. The rate of adult literacy in rural areas is 65 percent and many
children in rural areas are, in effect, barred from receiving an education
because they live at great distances from schools. An estimated 87 percent
of rural families do not have access to safe water supplies or sanitation
facilities. Health services in rural areas are generally poor and the rela-
tively few local hosoitals and dispensaries tend to be badly equipped and
understaffed. Rural infant mortality rates are as high as 100 per 1,000 live
births, while the registered national average is 66 per 1,000 births. Water-
borne infections are widespread and lead to a high incidence of illness and
death. Transport in rural areas is also a serious problem. Although Ecuador
has a relatively good main road system, its feeder road network is deficient.
In addition, many of the existing feeder roads become impassable during
prolonged periods of rain. These conditions hamper the flow of goods and
people into and out of rural areas.
Institutional Framework
36.       Successive Governments have allocated considerable financial and human
resources to public sector institutions responsible for agricultural development.
Despite this Ecuador has been unable to overcome prolonged stagnation in the
sector. National level policy formulation efforts have been inadequate and the
resulting lack of policy direction has generated duplication between national
and regional bodies, overlapping responsibilities and uncoordinated responses
in a sector where complementarity of services is crucial. Frequent reorganiza-
tions of the agricultural public sector have further confused both agencies and
farmers. The low salaries typical of almost all Ecuadorian Dublic agencies
have a greater negative impact in the agricultural sector, as the few available
qualified professionals are often unwilling to work in isolated rural areas.
37.       The institutions principally operating in agriculture include the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAC) and its dependencies in charge of
agricultural research, water resources and irrigation, agrarian reform and
colonization and development of the Amazon area. The functions and performance
of MAC and its research and agrarian reform agencies are discussed below.
Four semi-independent regional development organizations also exist and have
carried out significant miulti-sector development activities. Two state-owned
marketing enterprises purchase and sell food items and buy agricultural
products to help stabilize the market and assure consumers a supply of reason-
ably priced basic food items. The National Development Bank (BNF) is the
maior supplier of agricultural credit. In late 1980, the Government created
a new institution, the Integrated Rural Development Secretariat (SEDRI) with
a complementarv Integrated Rural Development Fund (FONADRI), to improve inter-
agency coordination and facilitate rural development efforts. SEDRI's oper-
ational responsibilities include program planning, project preparation,



- 10 -
channelling of funds and managing execution of rural development projects.
SEDRI reports directly to the President, and is thus expected to enjoy a certain
amount of influence. It will work through project units assigned to each site
with a core group of managerial and administrative staff in Quito.
38.       MAG is responsible for sector policy formulation and for executing
extension, marketing, research, irrigation and land settlement programs
(the latter three through its specialized dependencies). As mentioned,
its efforts to date in the policy field have fallen short of those needed
to stimulate agriculture out of its current stagnation. MAG administers its
programs through a network of provincial and zonal offices. The Ministry's
participation in rural development will occur both through placement of staff
in field offices, to work under guidance of the SEDRI project director for
the respective sites, and through secondment of its staff to SEDRI head-
quarters and project units.
39.       The Ministry's National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP) evolved
into an important institution and attracted widespread international support
following its founding in 1959. The Bank Group has provided financing for
INIAP activities through Credit 222-EC (FY1971) and Loan 501-EC (FY 1967)
for livestock development and through a seeds project (Loan 1229-EC of March
1976). Years of applied research have permitted INIAP to develop a good
technical basis for providing practical advice on increasing agricultural
productivity. In particular, INIAP has contributed to developing new varieties
and production techniques for cocoa, coffee, oil palm, cassava, potatoes and
corn as well as swine. In transmitting the results of this research to the
farmers, however, progress has not been as good, and ways of improving linkages
with MAG extension agents are being explored by the Government.
40.        To reduce skewed land distribution patterns (see para 7), the
Ecuadoran Institute of Agrarian Reform and Colonization (IERAC) has sought to
improve access to agricultural land for lower-income groups since its establish-
ment in 1964. In general, IERAC has been more successful in supporting land
settlement than expropriation and redistribution. Some 100,000 peasant families
have been settled in colonization areas while land reform has benefited 66,000
families although it has not been able to control spontaneous settlement.
IERAC has been able to achieve a uniform distribution of land in new settle-
ment areas where it has intervened (such as the region where the proposed
project would be carried out), and has granted provisional titles to settlers.
41.        Institutional credit to the agricultural sector grew rapidly in
the seventies, from about US$66 million in 1971 to about US$236 million
in 1979. Despite this rapid expansion, as much as 90 percent of farmers do
not have access to institutional credit, although many turn to informal credit
from suppliers, family or money lenders. About 53 percent of formal agricul-
tural credit is provided by the BNF and the remainder by commercial banks.
BNF has a network of 65 branch offices and 10 agencies throughout the
country. In 1979, it lent US$125 million for agricultural investments.
In general, about 70 percent of its loans are short term and the remainder



- 11 -
medium and long term. BNF has made a valuable contribution to agricul-
tural development in Ecuador. However, management problems occurred during
the 1970's, a time when BNF's operations greatly expanded as a result of
sudden inflows of petroleum revenues. Portfolio deterioration ensued.
A rescheduling of BNF's debt in 1977 and 1978--together with Government
capital contributions-- enabled the agency to maintain a constant lending
level and to cover its operating costs. In 1979, new management was appointed
and, with IDB and FAO assistance, has been strengthening its operations and
branch offices while automating BNF accounts.
42.       Construction of Ecuador's  secondary and feeder road system has,
until recently, been undertaken by provincial authorities and by specialized
agencies, with inadequate coordination from the Ministry of Public Works
(MOP). Recently MOP created a Feeder Road Unit in conjunction with the
Bank-financed Sixth Highways Project (Loan 1882-EC of June 1980) to improve
that coordination. A manual for feeder road design and improvements, prepared
under the Fifth Highways Project (1429-EC of May 1977), has been adopted by
MOP for preparation of feeder road improvements. These steps are expected to
facilitate the eventual improvement of the rural road system to which MOP has
paid relatively little attention in the past.
43.       Social services coverage in the rural area is lower than in the
urban zones, in part because infrastructure is unevenly distributed but also
because the facilities in rural areas are underutilized. Staff and supplies
are less available to rural schools and health posts, on the one hand, and
cultural and economic constraints inhibit their use by many rural families.
The Ministry of Public Health became responsible for rural health in 1977. It
is developing a regionalized system of health promoters, posts, subcenters and
centers, with hospitals at the provincial level. Construction of rural water
supply systems is the responsibility of IEOS, the Ecuadorian Institute of
Sanitary Works. Although moderately effective in the past, recent reorganiza-
tions have reduced IEOS' effectiveness in planning and constructing new
systems. With respect to rural education, the Ministry of Education is respon-
sible for delivery of services, but no special institutional unit exists to
attend specifically to rural needs. Schools are built by the Ministry of
Education's school construction directorate (DINACE) while curriculum, staffing
and operation (urban and rural) are handled by its Directorate of National
Education.
Prospect and Strategy
44.       The 1980-84 Development Plan gives priority attention to agriculture;
its aim is for the country to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and
increase agricultural exports. As mentioned, actions in support of these objectives
have been limited so far to increases in certain food prices to provide incentives
to producers. The Government is seeking assistance from international donors
for grain storage and marketing programs and plans are underway for rehabilita-
tion of cocoa plantings and other traditional exports. Rural development is
treated separately in the Plan as an important tool for achieving: (i) a more
equitable distribution of income and better living standards; (ii) participation
of isolated population groups in the development process; and (iii) better use



- 12 -
of the country's renewable resource potential, particularly for food production.
Seventeen rural development projects are included in the Plan, including the
Tungurahua project financed by the Bank's first rural development loan (1644-EC
of December 1978) and the proposed Puerto Ila-Chone project.
Bank Group Lending
45.       In order to help overcome some of the constraints mentioned in para-
graph 32, Bank Group lending for agriculture has concentrated on institution-
building, especially for improved technical assistance to farmers, and on
providing credit, infrastructure and services to small farmers. To strengthen
systematic preparation of projects for improved agricultural development, Bank
lending has also supported planning and pre-investment studies in the sector.
The eight loans and credits made to date for agricultural projects total
US$61.6 million. Half of our lending in the sector--four loans and credits
for US$31 million--has helped finance credit projects. The first three
of these, Loan 501-EC (of May 1967), Credit 173-EC (as of September 1969)
and Credit 222-EC (of November 1970), have now been fully disbursed and
focused on Ecuador's livestock industry. They provided credit and intensive
technical assistance to a relatively small group of progressive ranchers.
The projects were well-managed and executed. A Project Performance Audit
Report issued on October 21, 1975 for the first two credit operations
indicates that they achieved a 6 percent increase in Ecuador's beef cattle
herd. However, the operations increased the use of capital-intensive tech-
nology, and mainly benefited large producers. The Project Performance Audit
Report for Credit 222-EC was issued in November 1979 and concludes that
project objectives for beef and milk production were substantially met.
Again, however, middle-and higher-income producers benefited most. In order
to spread benefits more broadly, the fourth agricultural credit project (Loan
1459-EC approved on June 14, 1977) aims not only to continue promoting live-
stock but also to spur the development of crop farms and small agro-industries.
This loan is experiencing satisfactory progress after nearly two years of
delays in disbursements. Funds allocated to medium- and large-scale farmers
were quickly committed but small farmer and agroindustry components are moving
more slowly because of the limited capacities of MAG and participating banks
to identify subprojects among these groups. A lack of counterpart funds has
also slowed project execution.
46.       IDA also extended a US$5.5 million credit (425-EC) in 1973 for an
irrigation project in the Milagro area of the Costa; this operation terminated
in 1980.  In March 1976, the Bank approved two agricultural projects:   a US$3
million loan to improve seeds (Loan 1229-EC) and a US$4 million technical
assistance operation (Loan 1230-EC) to aid in preparation of rural development
projects. This latter effort resulted in the first Bank-financed rural devel-
opment effort, the Tungurahua project (Loan 1644-EC for US$18 million approved
in FY1979), which is getting underway. Details on the status of each of the
active agricultural projects are found in Annex II.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was identified in 1975 as a complement to the
Puerto Ila-Chone Highway, currently under construction with financing from the
Bank's Fifth Highways Loan (1429-EC). The Fourth Highways Project (Loan 1231-EC)
provided funding in 1976 for the feasibility studies for both the road and rural
development project. The studies for the latter were prepared by a Colombian-
Ecuadorian consortium of consulting firms, Astec-Pidelta, under the supervision



- 13 -
of MAG and the National planning agency, and were completed in October 1979.
The project was appraised in July 1980 and post-appraised in November 1980.
The appraisal mission's report (3278-EC dated April 13, 1981) entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project" is being distrib-
uted separately. Annex III contains a supplementary Project Data Sheet.
Negotiations of the loan took place in Washington from April 6 to 10, 1981 and
the Ecuadorian delegation was headed by Mr. Manuel Chiriboga, the head of
SEDRI.
The Project Area
48.        The project area incorporates over 170,000 ha on either side of the
Puerto Ila-Doblones highway (See map 15300). This is an area of Andean
foothills in the coastal region of Ecuador lying in the Provinces of Manabi,
Pichincha, Los Rios and Guayas.
49.        The zone is one of recent colonization largely managed by IERAC,
which originally -ranted provisional titles to settlers for parcels of 40 to
50 ha. The area is flat to rolling with deep valleys; elevation ranges from
60 to 120 meters; drainage is favorable; and fertility is moderate and gener-
ally suitable for perennial crops and pasture. The climate is humid-tropical.
Annual rainfall is about 2,800 mm., concentrated in the six-months period
December to May. There are no physical constraints to high crop production
in the zone.
50.        In 1950, about 65,000 persons (10,000 families) were living in the
area, which had experienced high immigration with a population growth rate in
recent years of 8.3 percent. All of the population is rural. Villages within
the area have populations below 2,000. The nearest town, El Carmen, is just
outside the zone and has only 9,000 inhabitants. The larger cities of Santo
Domingo de los Colorados to the northeast and Quevedo to the southeast are the
regional commercial and business centers.
51.       For 9,000 families in the project area, agriculture is the main
source of income. Another 1,000 families provide services in the area. Of
the agricultural families, 4,800 families own their land and 4,200 are headed
by relatives of land holders or by transient farm workers. Many of the 40 to
50 ha parcels originally distributed by IERAC beginning in 1964 are now
informally divided into smaller units, although land transfers resulted in some
consolidation into larger units in the eastern part of the area. Of the 4,800
farms, about 2,000 are under 20 ha, another 2,000 are 20 to 50 ha in size and
600 are between 50 and 100 ha.   Because of the informal land transfers, an esti-
mated 80 percent of the farmers do not have legal land titles and are, therefore,
not eligible for long-term credit. This includes all of the farms under 20 ha.
52.       Agricultural land use is divided among crops (37.4 percent), pasture
(43.3 percent) and forest (19.3 percent). Most of the crops in the project
area are suitable for export (coffee, cocoa, bananas and plaintains) and are
grown mainly on smaller farms. About one-fifth of production is subsistence
and animal feed crops (maize, beans, cassava and peanuts). Little use is made
of fertilizers, pest control or improved cultivation or processing techniques.



- 14 -
Consequently, yields are low. Pastureland is also underutilized and poorly
managed as long-term credit for livestock development is not available. Thus,
although farm owners have adequate land for the most part, their agricultural
earnings are still low.
53.        Average farm incomes are estimated to be US$243 (US$37 per capita)
for farms up to 10 ha ; US$703 (US$108 per capita) for farms 11 to 20 ha ;
US$1,514 (US$233 per capita) for 20 to 50 ha farms and US$3,165 (US$487 per
capita) for farms between 50 and 100 ha. The landless families have incomes
generally below US$243 (US$37 per capita). Among Ecuador's rural population,
those having per capita incomes of US$183 or lower are considered to be living
in absolute poverty.
54.        Infrastructure and social services in the area are limited.  As a
result the general standard of living is unsatisfactory. Three health posts
serve the area. Both gastro-intestinal and respiratory illnesses are endemic
and most of the population, especially children, suffer from malnutrition.
Approximately 100 schoolrooms are in the zone, most of them community-built.
Although the reported illiteracy rate is only 18 percent, much of the popula-
tion is, in fact, functionally illiterate. Of the 350 km. of roads, some
250 km. are only seasonally passable. Internal communication is also provided
by small boats which navigate the rivers running through the project area.
MAG's agricultural service agency at El Carmen, which is responsible for
extension services in the project area, is currently inadequately staffed and
financed. A nearby MAG hog-breeding station suffers from deteriorating
facilities and lack of funds. Three BNF branch offices with 153 staff are
near the project area, although they service other zones as well.
Project Objectives and Description
55.       The objective of the proposed project is to improve incomes and
living standards of 10,000 rural families by enabling them to expand agricul-
tural production and by providing an improved basic social infrastructure in
the project area. It would be the Bank's second integrated rural development
effort in Ecuador, and, like the first, is expected to be executed over a
six-year period.
56.      The proposed project would include:
(a) carrying out of an efficient agricultural extension program;
(b) provision of medium- and long-term agricultural credit to
finance on-farm investments, home improvements and hygienic
facilities, and short-term credit for production working
capital;
(c) carrying out of a land ownership legalization program to
provide firm land titles for around 3,400 production units;
(d) construction or improvement of about 215 km. of feeder roads
and implementation of a road maintenance program;



- 15 -
(e)  implementation of a primary health care program including
construction of medical facilities, training of medical staff,
encouragement of community participation and carrying out of a
nutritional subprogram;
(f)  rehabilitation and construction of schoolrooms, living quarters
for teachers and water supply and hygiene facilities for about
60 rural elementary schools; and
(g) establishment and operation by SEDRI of a project executing unit.
57.       The extension program, accounting for 15 percent of project costs,
would be directed toward improving: (a) crop production; (b) pasture management;
(c) hog production; (d) soil conservation and forestation practices; and
(e) farmers' organizations. Extension agents would also assist farm women to
organize income generating activities such as honey and cheese production.
The extension program would introduce and disseminate agricultural techniques
already developed by INIAP. MAG would rehabilitate its swine breeding center
in Santo Domingo. Similarly, with additional equipment and minor infrastructure,
the MAG forestry nursery at Santo Domingo would provide seedlings necessary
for reforestation. Finally, the extension program would provide training to
encourage greater farmer participation in project management and in market-
ing and processing of their produce. Existing informal organizations would be
strengthened so that, ultimately, farmers could operate three marketing and
processing centers in the zones to be constructed with project financing.
Farmers are expected to market agricultural produce locally or in the nearby
cities of Santo Domingo and Ouevedo. Livestock could be sold at the Santo
Domingo livestock market, one of the most important exchanges in the country.
58.       Over one-third of project expenditures would be for agricultural
credit -- the largest single component -- to be made available through
BNF. Short-term credit would finance farm operations and maintenance, annual
crop production and hog fattening. Medium- and long-term credit would finance
renovation and rehabilitation of tree crops, pasture development, purchase of
forestry seedlings and breeding cattle, construction of on-farm facilities for
livestock and coffee and cocoa bean processing and home improvements including
construction of hygiene facilities. Terms and conditions for this credit are
discussed in paragraphs 67 to 69.
59.       To address the needs of the large number of small landholders who
currently do not have legal title (and who, therefore, are not eligible to
obtain long-term credit from BNF), IERAC would carry out a land ownership legali-
zation program. The agency initiated a survey of land tenure in the project area
in January 1981 to define boundaries and ownership of all farms. UJnder the
program, to which 3 percent of project costs are allocated, IERAC would assist
farmowners holding only provisional titles to their original parcels to complete
the titling process. Others who own subdivided and/or informally transferred
plots would be assisted in legalizing the sales and transfers and in obtaining
title. By the end of the proiect period, IERAC would have carried out 2,110
legalization transactions. In addition, a portion of the farmers have not yet
received Drovisional titles; under the project, IERAC would thus also provide



- 16 -
1,290 new titles. The program of annual targets for this process would be as
follows: 280 legalization of land transactions in 1981, 500 in 1982, 770 in
1983 and 560 in 1984; 50 new titles in 1981, 400 in 1982, 520 in 1983 and 320
in 1984 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Under the project, the internal feeder road network in the project
area would be improved and completed. About 31 percent of project expenditures
would be allocated for this purpose. Specifically, the proposed loan would help
finance improvement of 27 km. of gravel roads, upgrading of 140 km. of dirt
roads to all-season standards, and building of 48 km. of new roads, for a total of
215 km. An additional 49 km. of roads in the project are being constructed/
improved under the Bank's Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1429-EC). The improve-
ments to be carried out under the proposed project consist of meeting minimum
requirements for permanent access including road widening and graveling as
well as the repair or construction of drains, culverts and bridges. The
network, when complete, should provide year round access to production areas.
61.       The health services component, accounting for eight percent of total
costs, includes training and deployment of rural health promoters and
medical staff, construction of two health sub-centers and six health posts,
and equipping of existing health facilities. In ten villages of 500 people or
more, deep-well water supply systems would be built. About 200 shallow wells
with pumps would provide water for more scattered populations. Beneficiaries
would be expected to participate in the construction of these facilities, con-
tributing their labor. As a condition precedent to construction of these water
works, communities would form committees charged with administering, operating
and maintaining the water supply systems and with contributing--in labor, cash
or kind--20 percent of the cost of these systems (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). In villages, beneficiaries would also pay-for household water
connections. The project would assist 1,000 farmers to construct latrines (for
which financing of materials and equipment will be available through BNF subloans
as part of the on-farm development credit component). Finally, a survey of
nutritional habits in the project area would be carried out and a nutrition
improvement program initiated.
62.       The final component of social infrastructure -- equivalent to about
6 percent of project costs -- would include the construction or rehabilitation
of schoolrooms and teachers quarters in accordance with standard designs and
using local materials. Presentation to the Bank by the Ministry of Education of
a satisfactory school rehabilitation and staffing program would be a condition
of disbursement for related expenditures (Schedule 1, para 4(d) of draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
63.       SEDRI would have overall responsibility for coordinating and assuring
implementation of the proposed project and would establish and adequately staff
a project unit for this purpose by no later than January 31, 1982. The Project
Units 's functions, responsibility and staffing would be satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement). This would include, in addition
to a project unit director, three support staff positions and two specialists
in planning and evaluation. The project director's functions and terms and
conditions of employment as well as his experience and qualifications would



- 17 -
be satisfactory to the Bank. A project director acceptable to the Bank has
already been named. The technical staff, seconded to the unit from MAG
and other participating agencies, would assist the director in day-to-day
operations. By June 30, 1982, an internationally-recruited consultant
would be on board to assist the director to organize the project unit.
This consultant's qualifications and terms and conditions of employment,
as well as those of other consultants hired under the project, would be
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Ministries of agriculture, health, education and public works and the
institutes of land reform, agricultural research and sanitation would all
participate in the execution of project components and would each enter into
an implementation agreement, satisfactory to the Bank with SEDRI to define
their respective responsibilities and necessary administrative arrangements
(Section 3.01(e) of draft Loan Agreement). Signature of these agreements
would be a condition of disbursement for each respective component (Schedule 1,
para 4(b)).
64.       MAG and INIAP would staff, by January 31, 1982, a specialized
extension service, satisfactory to the Bank, in the project unit to provide
technical and organizational assistance to farmers (Section 3.01(d) of draft
Loan Agreement). The service would initially have crop, livestock, and farmer
organization specialists on duty as well as three area chiefs and 25 extension
agents. Internationally recruited consultants would assist the service in
organizing the extension program, improving production and processing of
coffee and cocoa and developing and operating agricultural marketing mechanisms.
The consultant for the extension program would be on board by June 30, 1982, and
the others would be contracted as needed. Altogether, 48 person-months of
technical assistance are contemplated at an average cost of US$10,000 per month.
65.       The feeder road construction, improvement and maintenance activities
would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP). Civil works
for construction and improvement would be contracted out, while MOP's regional
division -- with equipment to be provided under the project -- would carry out
the road maintenance. The Bank has already approved or is reviewing designs
for about 114 Km. of these roads. Designs for the remaining 101 Km. will
be done under contract.
66.       The Ministry of Public Health's Institute of Sanitary Works (IEOS)
would construct health facilities and, together with the beneficiaries, would
construct the water supply and sewage systems in accordance with IEOS standards
which are acceptable to the Bank. The Health Ministry would be responsible
for planning, staffing and operating the health facilities and for training
medical and paramedical personnel. The Ministry of Education, through DINACE,
would plan and implement the school program.
On-lending Arrangements
67.       The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk and would channel
the loan funds for credit in Sucres to BNF on the same terms as the Bank loan
through a subsidiary loan agreement. Signature of this subsidiary agreement
which would be satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government contribution
to the credit component would be in the form of a 17-year interest-free loan to
BNF. The resulting blend of funds would provide BNF a margin of at least 6 per-
centage points, which would be adequate to cover administrative costs and risks



- 18 -
and encourage BNF to expand small farmer lending. BNF would finance short-term
credit with its own resources. It would administer the credit program through
three branch offices near the project area, which would be strengthened with
additional staff, training and vehicles. Farm investment plans would be
prepared by BNF staff in cooperation with agricultural extension agents. BNF
would evaluate the creditworthiness of subborrowers and approve loans to them.
As a condition of disbursement for the credit component, BNF would develop and
present to the Bank satisfactory guidelines for preparing farm plans and credit
applications for the project area (Schedule 1, para 4(c) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). These guidelines would be based on those currently used in the Bank-
financed Agricultural Credit project (1459-EC).
68.       Sub-loan terms for medium and long-term lending are expected to vary
from three to twelve years depending on the type of investment, with grace
periods of one to three years. BNF would finance up to 90 percent of invest-
ment costs for small-scale farmers, with subloans for larger beneficiaries
covering up to 80 percent of investment costs (Schedule 6 to the draft Loan
Agreement). For purposes of credit, small-scale farmers are defined as those
with net assets of up to US$30,000 equivalent including land (but not houses).
Sixty percent of the credit component would be earmarked for small-scale
farmers (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       Interest rates for medium and long term credit (including allowable
commissions) would initially be 12 percent for small-scale farmers and 15 per-
cent for other beneficiaries. Annual inflation between 1977 and 1979 averaged
about 11 percent. In 1980, however, it rose to 15 percent partly as a result
of a doubling of the minimum wage. For 1981, inflation is expected to be in
the 15 to 20 percent range as the large fuel price increases take effect (para
21). For 1982-84, when changes in wages, fuel prices and tariffs are expected
to be more gradual, inflation is estimated to stay within the 15 percent per
year range, providing monetary and fiscal policies are not expansive. Thus,
the real interest for small farmers would be slightly negative, while for
others it would be near zero. This is acceptable both because of the relative
poverty of the beneficiaries of the proposed project and because the 12 percent
interest rate represents a continued increase over the 9 percent interest rate
charged under the Government's regular small farmer credit programs. Earlier
Bank loans (1459-EC and 1644-EC) had provided for a transitional 11 percent
interest charge to the small farmer group. The Government and BNF will be
required, under the proposed loan, to annually review the subloan rates and
charges under the project in consultation with the Bank and, if necessary, to
revise them in line with changes in inflation (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Cost and Financing
70.       The project's total cost, net of import duties, is estimated to be
US$57.1 million. Taxes -- about US$600,000 -- are included in total costs.
The foreign exchange component is about US$19 million or 33 percent of project
costs. The proposed loan of US$20 million would cover 35 percent of project
costs. The Government would finance US$33.8 million, or 60 percent, of project
costs and the beneficiaries would contribute the balance of about US$3.3 million.
To ensure that necessary resources would be available for project start-up, the
Government would, as a condition of loan effectiveness, establish and maintain
a special project account of the equivalent of US$500,000 to serve as a
revolving fund (Section 6.01 and 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
revolving fund, which would be replenished by the proposed loan and government
contributions, would ensure uninterrupted financing for this operation.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursement
71.       Civil works -- including construction and improvement of feeder
roads, agricultural extension facilities, health and sanitation infrastructure
and schools -- are expected to cost about US$13.3 million, excluding contingen-
cies. Since these individual items are of low cost and in scattered locations,
it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested in them. Instead,
most would be carried out by local contractors who have sufficient capacity to
do the job. Thus, these contracts would be awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. To encourage competi-
tion, roads contracts would be grouped in lots of about 50 km. and US$1.7
million (as is currently done under the Sixth Highways project). Other works
contracts for US$150,000 or more will be reviewed by the Bank before award.
Works costing less than US$150,000 --up to an aggregate of US$2.5 million--
could be by force account or negotiated contract in accordance with (i) local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) annual construction and procure-
ment plans acceptable to the Bank. Goods to be purchased under the project
would amount to US$1.5 million. All operation and maintenance equipment and
other goods valued at US$150,000 or more would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Equipment
other than for road maintenance valued at under US$150,000 (up to an aggregate
of US$1 million) could be procured using local procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
72.       Disbursements, to take place over six years, would be made against:
(i) 45 percent of total expenditures for civil works and buildings; (ii) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or, for locally procured imported goods and
breeding stock, 80 percent of local expenditures for equipment and vehicles;
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 45 percent of local expenditures
for training and consultants and (iv) 55 percent of medium- and long-term
subloans disbursed by BNF to participating farmers. Normal documentation
would be required for disbursements other than for works carried out by force
account, BNF subloans and local training courses. For these exceptions,
statements of expenditure would would be sufficient although full documentation
would be maintained for Bank review in project files in the country.
Project Benefits
73.       Some 4,600 small- and medium-scale farmers and their families will
directly benefit from the project by means of improved incomes and standards
of living. Farm families with an average of less than US$250 annual income at
the beginning of the project are expected to have incomes of almost US$1,500 on
the average at full development. Another 1,500 persons -- mostly landless workers -
will gain employment as a result of the project. About 3,300 families will gain
access to improved water supply and 1,000 families to sewage units. Area children
will have better access to primary schools. Farm income for beneficiaries
is, at full development, expected to increase from three to six times. The
completion of the feeder road network will benefit all 10,000 families in the
area by providing better communications and transport opportunities. Further-
more, the project is an important step in institution building for SEDRI, the
success of which is important if the country is to pursue the broad rural
development goals it has set. As the proposed project is one of the first that
SEDRI will manage from start to finish, the experience gained by SEDRI would
serve as a technical and administrative model for replication in future projects.



- 20 -
74.       Based on expected agricultural production increases, the economic
rate of return for the components with quantifiable benefits (representing
86 percent of total base costs) is 18 percent. This includes all components
supporting improved agricultural production. If, for sensitivity analysis
purposes, benefits were reduced by 20 percent or costs were increased by
20 percent, the economic return on those components for which benefits are
quantifiable would be 15 or 16 percent, respectively. The nutrition, health
and sanitation components do not have easily quantifiable benefits but would
help to reduce malnutrition and disease, especially gastroenteric illnesses pre-
valent in the area. The expanded primary education coverage for rural children
should eventually increase the number of functionally literate family members.
Although contributions to family incomes by rural women (other than their work
with crops and livestock) have not been included in the economic rate of
return, some benefits are expected from cash-generating activities they may
initiate.
75.       Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by the project unit
through its office of planning and monitoring. Specific attention would be
paid to: (a) coverage and effectiveness of the extension service; (b) impact
of agricultural credit; (c) IERAC performance in land titling; (d) feeder road
contributions to improved access; (e) impact of health and education services;
and (f) impact of the project on women beneficiaries.
Project Risks
76.       Technical risks are low because agricultural techniques are known,
expected yields reasonable and the feeder road execution agency experienced.
Moreover, SEDRI's creation should improve interagency coordination and execution,
a frequent problem in the past in complex multi-sector projects in Ecuador.
SEDRI's lack of experience could, however, create delays, particularly in initial
stages of the proposed project. This risk should be minimal since several inter-
national agencies, including USAID and FAO, are currently providing technical
assistance to SEDRI to assist in its effective start-up. With respect to other
risks, previous Bank experience with MAG extension, BNF credit and IERAC
titling services indicates that careful supervision and monitoring by both the
Bank and the project unit would be required to assure timely execution of their
respective components. This expanded supervision is provided for under the
project. Additional staffing and funding of the regional offices of all three
of these institutions, required under the proposed project, should also
enhance their effectiveness. Finally, technical assistance would be made avail-
able under the project to strengthen extension services and project management.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 21 -
78.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for loans
for rural development projects. The main features of the Loan Agreement
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Special
conditions of loan effectiveness would be that (i) a special project account
be established and that US$500,000 equivalent be deposited therein by the
Government and (ii) a subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between the Government and BNF be signed. The signature of implementation
agreements between SEDRI and each of the participating agencies concerned
would be a condition of disbursement for their respective components.
Additional conditions of disbursement for: (a) the credit component would
be presentation to the Bank by BNF of satisfactory guidelines for preparing
farm plans and credit applications; and (b) for the education component,
presentation to the Bank by the Ministry of Education of a satisfactory
school rehabilitation and staffing program.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments,
April 23, 1981
Washington, D. C.



-22-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%CES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       a- HQST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            283.6
AGRICULTURAL      73. 0                                MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUPOPE
GNP PER CAPITA (15_ )                    ..       390.0    1050.0                   1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     201.0        297.0     505.0                   1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.4          6.0       7.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4         39.5      43.5                     63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       14.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         26.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        16.0        21.0      28.0                     28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     91.0        100.0     107.0                     81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.4        46.6      44.6                     41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         52.0         50.8      51.8                     54.7                     61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.6       3.6                      3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9         3.1/c    3. 3                      2. 7                      1. 6
URBAN                              5. 0jd       4.5       4.1                      4. 1                     3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        45.0      44.0                     34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.0        11.0      10.0                      8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3. 3      3.1                      2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         9.0      32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..       6. 3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          104.0       101.0     103.0                    106.9                    113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   84.0         91.0      92.0                    107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0        52.0      50.0                     65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        26.0        27.0      25.0                     33. 7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      23.0        16.0      10.0                      8.4                      4. 3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         56.0      60.0                     63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           140.0       118.0      66.0                     66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         34.0      42.0                     65.9
URBAN                               ..         76.0      84.0                     80.4
RURAL                                           7.0      13. 0                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *         22.4      32.3                     62. 3
URBAN                               ..           ..      60.0                     79.4
RURAL                               ..           ..      13.0                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2600.0      2870.0    15 70. 0                 1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2280.0      1605.0        ..                   1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             533.0       425.0     570.0                    480.3                     289. 7
URBAN                               ..        190.0
RURAL                               ..       4740.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        i7.0        *-                       *-                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1/e       5.2       5.3
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2. 5/e       ..
URBAN                              2./           ..I
RURAL                               2.8/         ..        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DW4ELLINGS)
TOTAL                              32.0/e        ..      41.2
URBAN                              78. 57T       *       84.3
RURAL                               6.0j         . .     11. 6



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EIROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0         97.0     101.0                      99.7                     105.9
MALE                  87. 0       99.0      101. 0                   101. 0                    109.3
FEMALE                79.0        95.0      100.0                     99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         26.0      44.0                      34.4                      64.0
MALE                  13.0        28.0         ..                     33.5                       71.1
FEMAI.E               10.0        24.0         ..                     34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  29.0          29.0       23.0                     38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0      38.0                      30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                          11.0         15.0      17.0                      14.5                      26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        67. 5/e      68.0       73.9                     76.3
CONSU14PTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          5.0        7.4                     43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         39.0        282.0        ..                     245. 3                    192. 2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0. 5        25.0      41.0                      84.2                     118. 5
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0        41.0       49.0                     63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           4. 0       5.6                       ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1442.7       1936.2    2509.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.2         19. 1     21.0                     22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.0         50.9      46.0                      37.1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         22.2      25.0                     23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5         31.7       31.6                     31. 5                     40.9
HALE                                  54.3        51.0       50. 2                    4B.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                10.5        12.2       12. 8                    14.0                      26. 2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.5        1.4                      1.4                       1. 0
INCOME DISTREBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 43 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     269.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     183.0                     190.8.
ESTI4ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     307.0                     474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      77. 0                   332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLITE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40. 0
RURAL                                ..           ..      65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless Dtherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc   Interceasal growth rate 3.2% (1962-74);  /d 1950-62;  /e 1962.
Most rezent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-24-                                                                     ANNE  I:
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL ISOICATIRS
Note: Alah-ugh the data are dren Pinsore  gnrll  uge                  Ih motaubrisi    ndrlibe,I  sol  also he noted that they may no  b  inter-
natonaly  omerale  ecaseof he  ac  ofIadsdfddetlIo   anI                  onetsuede           difOro   cutIe   tcolcin    h  date.  The date are, tone-
The  sfaretn.. groups are (17 the emma tounno1Y group of ohs sub o  country and (2) a contY group alth snhwba  higher gooseon   that  he, -nuttrYgru
of the eth act country  fencept for "Capital hurplueOill tEpotters` group ihere ''Middla In-c.e  hon  vArto  and Middle feat  ImooT   eae   fsrne
soi-ul .a Iintie.    t  sh  rtret  gop data the en.gsar.ouato.egte.rn                            .si   en  fo  math: itd.,1.:dtoetn  erAshow   o b'he  a
leas  half oftincutre   tIgnu    a  dt   ortanidcao.blo   neoreaaoTtunte  sogth   od                                           ..redpnd.    o  h   n..bllpo
ol nr on icaor eette   aecg the country and referenc  gr-hoTupo.".f    n
LeAr dOld (thoumandIl sdyite.d)                                                      FPtulat- Ion serhysician  -f   dueto   ictoe  by nu Ie on posottoun, pop-
Totl -Inel  unfac   areaon  .tmt. l...d ara.n. ild    etr.ainisne qusitfied fmm a ndlu-1 school a nunosret.y lemi
icr crops, pastures. narken and kithen garden  or. ",',,liefllo;17yaa            salt an   eae  rdae  uae  patclnuee   nds sen ugs
f-I                              t. 11.                         ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~unlato  aer dorhltd-ttl,ubnfn   ua  -Ppln                ttl
culetedty sam  conoer ion sthod neOnrld  ank Asie 7197-79ha1i); 1960 .t.  ansheipuirndpnaegerlndispdotabised  bepital iadem
IOIty  Itd k1o979    o   ol  nisln   e  ppn ;16-190,n   1970                             nrs  mdie  etc.  whth  ffe  inpan enhscoo               pti      t s 1 frods
2EE -El!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl Incud aIlito prncpagnea endepeielie-d hospitel. sad u
d'at                                                                                     Trothoslnes   hnndd bhth  duhedof  ade
Ura Fr lbnn _peren  of onl)-  sto  f  the  n  tta  cpuaton
an ong coutttea; lOb), 171  and 197   d Pita.                               Ac60ra970Star of7 tOYuseh      ffd (r bsn  pe  Phyouslod  b-  b  Iosl  orbit,1 and..e
POpuainP rojec AN  VTionSTATIhouseholfd .g onIfn  o    gonop1 oflit.. indiniii                                                                     hr  lining      - querner
Pooatti   tr  Ol-Crenpduslnpoeton   r   se   n190                               edternt  neale P.u b .ede  or1 lodge  nayorma pnt.he Inlue -n
toad     ouaio.yemo0  n   n   hi n.oonalyn   nddrnljo   ats 1h96hncah97d0On sdsoi9i8elh pupoere. Ad-i.    d-bt   -.
VIrcl   n   eee  Ieepceo  staIielngan  77. yearn1.  Se  et-dl-iie,  epenoey .nalt snsedoludedno-.1etn    trcue   n
seeaTonfoi      lt.   rt.ls   ae  he 1e6tle asbiilyg~ dectnos                   HUSNocuidG       e
letl     0 codo  no70 icood 1m97n8 at  aiypanIgpronnc.                     Acn  n  lc ot dfoaro.. oh ci dnelllnas( - tod tta . ub -, ad  url
Its birh rnne  n aqualCc the deathti rate, and also      the .ag   a Iunur 198-    htouConoblt.,                       1.9
thi dt -chiee  onl  sna  fetiiy  ran  dcinei                   dutdSo letRsu
thtelmesoleelioioaterI uoinrteuoewey   enohsot-rsavcholtd                                                   al I.,dasl-Aoetoalaiendsml
onteyerjl.  n   hngamo dIcine ot fatityh at  tormp                        ..aba-        yer  bu.n.adjste  ton dltfereot.. lengths of pttaiyduatinn   fo
sent ltnl.                                           ountrmenin  uricrsrlsucanineornlnentmeymssed  h  perosn
Pm  no  Re.    Nid-rar ppulaton pr  aqoee Iciowene Id)heofnel, oT.              ...ov.ideugnrl  oain,o  aoe   rtiglarcio    n   oi
Per n. en.aucoclnura  lend- Comuned  s rhoe To fag_nllua   land                   enlded
onl.tb-tyi    hI   .i-                  hI                                            Vc-utlna  enRolint (ent ofnenrdty) in              Soctine  lu -itutn
PouaIonAg-    nctr  (n- rcent)  -    PbI""'(-A  er)   oo  o-g  (11                        nolod  teblIcal,d Indunre1   orote  pogee  hihnpraeInepa
lation; 1960. 1970                       .d ..endh1976 det.E rUCATO-NeheraI-oiay,ndccda-Snltdossnlldn
innuat  -- bo th Onim  nrnwn -  ti ted -.1 Atnl.  fronilnaty      oftnltd'ost   n   endr                            ol   IIe   yvneso   eotai  h
reap          I. poultinsfo    1190, iIt-O  ed190-8                                       cIe'P"dntlo
laflona  dbr  h97-0  1900-70  endh  P 1070-78   --.t..nuprnntofnaldltouainagd 15  acelad~  ocer6
populailon; 1060. 1970, and 1978 dane.  ~         I PI,"     t, uP' ion
population    1190.90,   and 1979--    data,                                           carsil  sse.  I  .Pt.  y tiw ba leerd ohm  eifht prroo ;,,h rlur  anbl"ter  brrsm  n
boct harodunio  rIefeaen  bto   enio   ooe   ilbe   n                                    almr   sllr
hen v-r- Trphouoin-peIohI alesopi..enpnee                          y pga- pecif tifar  -edo  eciver (ierhouni--d.conu Ia  Ir)           .. all spint o   ceeir PToo -d
al~l    katle  noe Mit-  peesogl  roo.                                                 genecet public pt ihoonend-popuatIon;detc ludw   unicensedi SW teelca
Ill nDroilIo                                                                              in    1 oules and2 In,1 ytcta oh       --Pgntttlo  o  it -atsn
Ina-o  food Produc-tuntano  Capita C19b9-7hrl b- foe.       o eI     cpt Iocual        twnre.e CI'd     ltn    e  hued  nuain      hn  terec crua
produotion of all                                           licatict drcvned potnartly to~.....  Ifoit  general neh.inl  pIte oOnstdso
Int cIcloa   rrhsa    omn  na    ae   tam  goods (e.g.audatoere                          to ba  "del"'0 tin appears .a len  foot.nd nes enee.1-dn           .r1"i
coat i.ncdedh R- Aggregateproductin of. eac gcrtyh in. fum  Ot.          id            piokota aci  duingnhy peat, includin  adys ions. So -rhice-in ht.m
fulolerrg    roducer60 pr 960-weIghts  1960-6,170,ad178ae.adwhlule
par i- da.-  cetreblen-pln)  compr..Ise--  do retho produhnf, Ipntef lace..            Toa  .10p--to   thousnds)1 dItoocwisl  sro  prnnidldn
h,urilld 1ev6   191-6)In  1970. ed. 17   et                                           ihn   sproto    ftnllbrSpn   90   90ed17   ae
fr oar Ic   oc1   fooni       aoettda)-Porwotato   a   aIa                           Iwunolacnn     ao   rwt nno,ooruAin    aua rn
bule-r oral  outies i mnh.iahed-ip ItOhpovdmfo  wut-n 97  od-9)  dt-
(Alan pronl -,of .h,ob10 -onm   abudhatimai  proein   Three cin-                        eolyrte   o   omue   stoa,gle   n   eml  aorfrea
I_e_  ro ehlwb.ingl and pulses in  ree  pe  day  1961h-65,191 ed97 d         ate.      onnoao R ecnd-n-  h...-ttl   f  ouloo  Ander.. I i-     15- and --an  ove
ag .gou  1-4 yroe  no chlrenp l-o thIsl age group;. dTon.l.oat; detdlpiog                                                                      ...ndn-
Ind..  f Fo.-dP,.d.t1i..   C.,it   I.derneeac ofPrlote ncaf  fbth  c cshind kod)- ncelndib  rihes
OEALTII                                                                        5 percent, chchentl~~~~-.d     -    .d  ..   n  d -dp,..lyyrwr   pooriun  g0  ettr .1  edpnenApnct
LIf TowcaoyanOlthfrco  (-  veag  onhr ti-ywr  oftd  lIfe. reanig              v    unhldn i
en bIrh; 196, 1970and 198 dMl.     _ nn        Itb                                                     Pp          11   'lII
i-fro  SoIflt .R.Y 'ein rtthuad-       -Ana  death  ofifat  under one year                 - IAnGIT  At19 9           C,,.I,I_-B..    nh                   bII
of age  er nbouand liv  hionh.                                                 Tailnan,Ied AbmolJuned dri Povhn Incom  Level.d. dI pe  peite  -  ranadrue
Accee t  Saf laar leroan o   culhIon     oa, ra,ed  rural -dtbouapown.noe  ee.statIow   se  telo  bi_h a  iim_
tumbar  f peope (totl, urbn, andrural)nob rnsonahlerrmesneafe               utrit tnally  denost dIet  lus esentialcon-fod Psqorsmsnn  ision
"asonceoroly  (-Idr  coerce d nuofnp  anas o    in trw   but  -oooaiated              aRfoolEbe
a nrachaI    hI  osoonce   orhls.erna  edmnia'   els   a                            folae  elnv  oronltoeLvl .Dnr eta IubnanIua 
Aerrncteoof  hei  tpen ive  -Pnrulantnne,,t Innraaarul-                            Fu-tesoc    sterno.. dnonm  lEcelis11 ot-hird  o  anerae pe     ita
Id nahdp           -kt latd N.tnooephsli1   meters .iroIubouaa  -dh.            eaSlOnfofhovny    lhnra   aeiodra                                    ua
c     I d-ndeihig   ih nraPnbe  nes  fthnhus.I  ttlotc                             10fnihajone                   - o  hae  cs   f  c- aI  obr  ses
ornnvelleocennnuldcoyl  tha  thd  omnf   0aerso   h   oueod                   otntdFphoo  r Inmlue  oton Income  1mv60 fe1oent  nduba
do 000 tso  tod spmodsdprnr...ntaEa part of.. the day  ib ToIhtII      th               aD., rural   In  -i-rn   on--paI_n  Iubnadrfa)n er'abouepn'
t't Iy'   . a ..ter ..eds'. '   .                                                        97    -
po     "I"is  o    Ifala I-na-naLllations.inng                                                                                       -  it,        If    tn



- 25 -
ANNEX I
ECl'AEOR -  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                             Page 4 of 5
Population             8,068 -(mid-1979, thousands)
EqP Per Capita:  Us$1,050 -(1979)
Amount                   Average Annual Increase (7)                Share of CDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$                  (at constant 197R prices)                       (at current prices)
Indicator                                      at ctrrent prices)              ----------------
1979                     1960-70   1970-75    lQ75-RO               1960      1970     lI7S        l9SO(a)
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Grons donestic product (h)                             9924                          5.R       11.1         7.0            10O.0     100.0    100.0       1 00.0
Agriculture                                          1456                         4.0         5.4         I.9             33.3      27.6       17.°      14.1
Industry                                             3476                          7.1       20.7         7.7             10.3      23.0        3.30     15.0
Services                                             4577                         6.3         8.0        9.1              47.4      49.4      41.6       46.7
Con-moPtion                                            7210                          5.0        9.8         7.S             94.6      92.n       80.3       (0.0
Gross tnvesisent                                       290L                         1R.7       12.2         7.R             14.0      22.5       76.7      97.4
Export of goods and NFS                                2339                          2.7       15.8         2.9             17.2       14.Q      26.2      2n.1
Tnports of goods and NFS                               2534                         10.Q       12.6         5.7             15.7       10.4      32.7      72.5
Crons  national savings                                2310                                      -                          17.4       16.?      IR.9      16.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (')
Amount                                                                      (at current prices)
(million     US$                                                       ------------------------------------
at current prices)                                                        1965       1970      1975       10()0C'
1979                                                                 - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - -
MERCHAtTDIS0E TRADF
Merchandise exports                                  2144                                                                   100.0   100.0    101.0    Ion.0
Primary                                            1994                                                                   100.0   100.0    l00.0         P9.R
Man-factures                                        150                                                                     -         -         -        10.2
Merchandise imports                                  1944                                                                   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                129                                                                     2.3      5.3        7.8       6.7
Petroleun                                            13                                                                     8.2       6.4       1.9       0.7
achitnery & equipmeet                               933                                                                    28.3    31.0        42.8      47.4
Other                                               869                                                                    61.2     57.3       47.5      49.2
1975       1976        1077       107R        1079
PRICES AND TERMS oF TRADF
GDP deflator                                                           71.7        90.7       92.2      1(0.0       123.1
Exchange rate                                                          29.0        25.0       25.0        25.0       25.0
Export price index                                                     76.7        86.9      102.6       100.0      140.8
TIport price index                                                     81.8       84.6        89.5       100.0      118.4
Terns of trade index                                                   93.8       102.7      114.6       100.0      118.9
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1075      1979
PUIBLIC FINANCE. (d)
Correct revenue                                                                               11.4       12.0
Correct expenditure                                                                            6.6        9.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                                     4.8        2.1
Capital expeoditure                                                                             2.5       4.8
Foreign financing                                                                                -        1.7
1960-70   1970-75   1975-90    14R0-R5
OTHER INDICATORS
r.DP growth rate (7)                                          5.8        11.1        7.0         5.3
CDP per capita growth rate (2)                                2.4        7.5         3.6         1.9
Energy consunption growth rate (. )                            -           -        11.7         6.5
ICOR                                                          0.7        2.7         4.0        5.1
Marginal savings rate                                        -0.4       -0.4         0.4         -
Import elasticity                                             1.Q        1.3         O.R        0.0
(a) At constant 1978 prices. Data are estinates.
(h) At 1960 and 1970 market prices.For 1975 and 1980, components arc expre-sod at fictor coat uod will -t  dd duo to cocl-sio- of net ijdiroct taxes
and suhoidies.
(c)  stixate
(d) Central Government only.
April 20, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX I
ECUADOR  - BALANCE OP PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                     Page 5 of 5
(million USS at current prices)
Population          8,068 - (mid-1979, thousands)
CNP Per Capita   1'Bi1,050- (1079)
Actunl                                            Projected
IQ70     1075      1976     1977      1978      1979          1980(a) i98s       10R2      Ig903     1984
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
'et exports of goods 6 services                                     -130      -25?       -14     -378      -747     -625           -540     -947    -1401   -17P   -1957
Exports of goods & services                                        250      1127     1415      1629     1741      241i         2734       29Ro      11795   136        4127
Imports of goods & services                                        300    1379       1469      2006     2493      3039          3374      3926     452R      9164      99R4
Net transfers                                                          17       32        '1       36        44        40            4n        4S       so        56        61
Current account balance                                             -113      -220        -3     -341      -690     -S90           -SO0    -907    -1391   -I97'   -17-4
Direct private investment                                             9Q        93       -20       34        40        50           100       11       1ll      147       16c
MLT loans (net)                                                        76      133       161      506       425       595           975     149R    I19I    7303         2424
Official                                                             A        51       77        53        77       67             9S      195       256       2Q7     ?79
Private                                                             17        82       09       453      349       52P           R90      1263      1629     2007      2110
Other capital                                                                  -93        62      -42       267      -25           -430     -460      -509      _540     -590
Change in reserves   (-   increase)                                  -10        95    -700       -157       -34      -15           -145     -205      -150      -190    -705
Inte.national reserves                                                01       257      457       613       647      682            827     1032      1182      1341     1546
Reserves an months of imports                                           3        2         4         4        3         3             3         3         3        1         3
Actual
197n     1975      1976     1Q77      1970      197 
GROSS DISBUTRSElENTP
Official grants
Gross disbursements of MILT loans                                     42       166       217      570       533     1142
Concessional                                                        12        40       45        31        71       10
Bilateral                                                            q        15       29        12         9         7
IDA                                                                  2         7         3        5         1        0
Other multilateral                                                    1       18        17       14        11       12
Non-concensional                                                       10      125       173      547       512     1122
Official export credits                                              2         9        19       25        49       12
IBRD                                                                 2        10         4        R        22       31
other noltilateral                                                   0         4        18       iD         8       29
Private                                                             26       102      112      535       433      1051
EXTFRNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and dishursed                                       213       457       619     1139      1507     2207
official                                                           152       259      332       394      405       567
TBPB                                                              34       43        42       44        60        95
IDA                                                                6       29        31        36       36        36
Other                                                            112      199       259      314       380       445
Private                                                             61       199      207       746     1102      1640
Undishurned Debt                                                      139      322       440      646       710       903
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                                            24       50        02      117       206       713
Interest                                                             7        17       25        49       99       161
Payments as Y exports                                                q.1       4.5       9.7      7.2      11.9     2-.6
Average interest rate on nea  Isans (7)                              6.2       7.4       7.9      7.9       0.2     11.0
Official                                                           4.2       6.6      7.7       7.0      3.9       0.6
Private                                                            7.4       9.2      R.0       9.1      9.1      11.4
Average maturity of sew loans (years)                              1.7       10.8      11.2     10.1      11.6     10.4
official                                                          36,1      15.9     19.3      18.7     29.5      15.1
Private                                                            9.8       6.2      7.3       7.7       7.2      °.6
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total SOD                                                  15.P       9.4       6.8      3.R       3.8       3.9
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbarsements                         4.9       9.9       1.9      1.3       4.2      2.7
IBRD debt service/total debt service                                17.9      12.6      10.1      8.2       4.8       1.8
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                    2.7       6.2       5.0      3.1       2.3       1.7
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements                          5.1       4.3       1.7      0.R       0.2      0.0
IDA debt service/tstal debt service                                  0.0       0.6       0.4      0.3       0.2      O.0
(a)  Estimate                                                                                                                           April 20, 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of March 31, 1981)
--    US$ million---
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                             Amount
Number   Year         Borrower          Purpose            Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
11 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                     89.3       37.6
1030     1974         Guayaquil
Water Co.       Water Supply       23.2          -        2.4
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education            4.0          -       3.8
1229     1976         Ecuador          Seeds                3.0          -        1.8
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical            4.0          -        3.6
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways            10.5          -        1.8
1255     1976         Guayaquil
Port Authority Ports               33.5          -        7.1
1359     1977         Ecuador          DFC                 26.0          -        3.0
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways            17.5          -       9.6
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture         15.5          -      11.3
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical           11.0          -       10.6
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0            -      17.8
1731     1979         Ecuador          DFC                 40.0          -      31.2
1776     1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0          -       30.8
1879     1980         Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit      20.0          -       20.0
1882 i/  1980         Ecuador          Highways            55.0          -      55.0
Total                                        401.5       37.6      209.8
of which has been repaid                    75.2        0.8
Total now outstanding                        326.3       36.8
Amount sold                          4.1
of which has been repaid           2.8       1.3          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               325.0       36.8
Total undisbursed                            209.8         -       209.8
1/   Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1981)
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                         Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.                Textiles    3.7        0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                        DFC            -       0.4      0.4
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0             -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978           Cemento Nacional (CEM)               Cement      12.0       1.0      13.0
1980           Adamas Andina S.A.                   Pulp and
Paper       3.3       1.0      4.3
1981           Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.         Mining       1.0        .3       1.3
Total gross commitments                          25.0       2.9      27.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         4.7       0.4       5.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                20.3       2.5      22.8
Total undisbursed                                 4.3       1.4       5.7



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project execution has been delayed by frequent managerial changes,
lack of counterpart funds and slippages in the hiring of consultants. As a
result, the project is now about five years behind schedule. Recently, project
execution has improved and construction is now underway on 95 percent of the
Project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
cost over-runs and a serious problem of counterpart funds. More specifically,
the Guayaquil Water Company requires about US$27 million through 1982 from the
Government or from increased water tariffs to complete the project. In March
1980, the new Government provided a US$17 million loan to the Water Company.
An extension of the closing date will be necessary to permit completion of
civil works. A tariff reform, in final stages of approval, is expected to
provide the Water Company needed revenues to finish the project. The Bank
has advised the Borrower that disbursements will be suspended if new tariffs
are not being applied by April 1981.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is 2-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule
because of frequent managerial changes, serious financial problems and technical
difficulties with the design and space standards of the Quito and Guayaquil
training centers. A Vocational Training Law was enacted in October 1978
which is helping to resolve many of the financial and management problems
and the present Government has shown strong support for the project. Bidding
for equipment purchase and construction of the training centers is expected to
take place shortly. The closing date was extended by two years to permit the
project's conclusion.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution and loan disbursement have proceeded more slowly
than anticipated, but recent Government actions have reactivated the project.
The implementing institutions (National Seeds Council, Improved Seeds Company,
Department of Seed Certification and the Project Unit) have been established
and staffed. The Improved Seeds Company, however, is not yet operating at
full capacity and thus is unable to cover its expenses or amortize its portion
of the loan. Procurement for works and equipment of the seed plants is
underway, and the National Development Bank has indicated it will provide
interim financial support to the Seeds Company.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural devel-
opment project in Tungurahua Province and will support hydrological studies for
the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which topographic and prefeasibility
studies can be done for agricultural development in the region. These studies
would absorb over half of the loan resources. Land use studies for a site in
Esmeraldas Province are in contracting stages.   Selection of experts to work
with the Rural Development Secretariat in project preparation is expected to
take place by mid 1981. To help to accelerate this long-delayed project,
the Bank amended the Loan Agreement at Governmentts request to provide for
reimbursement of local consultants services. Also, the closing date was
extended to permit completion of the Guayas Basin studies.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind contract schedule. The technical assistance programs are
already showing their positive effects on highway planning, engineering and
maintenance. The project closing date has been extended to permit completion
of civil works. This project financed the feasibility studies for the
proposed Puerto Ila-Chone rural development project recommended in this report.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Civil works proceeded rapidly on this project following initial
delays related to design and price disputes. By February 1981, works were
essentially completed and three quarters of the loan was disbursed. Remaining
minor works, such as paving, and tests of structures are to be carried out in
the next few months. The entire project is expected to be completed by
mid-1981.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Commitments under this project have proceeded faster than anticipated
and the loan is now fully committed.  Since new financieras that were expected
to receive US$3 million under this loan were unable to meet the criteria required
for participation, at the Government's request the project was modified to permit
these financieras to have access to Bank funds through CFN, Ecuador's largest
finance company.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about
60 percent of total project costs, is proceeding on schedule. Design changes
on this road have, however, generated an increase in costs. Construction of
the Puerto Ila-Doblones road is a year behind schedule and the lateral feeder
roads to this road have not yet begun, which entail a delay of at least two
years. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads in three provinces
has been completed satisfactorily, and served as the basis for the Sixth
Highway Project.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. The National Development Bank (BNF), the largest lender in the
agriculture sector, delayed participation in the project to allow time to
train staff but recently began to make commitments. Thirteen banks and
financieras now have signed participation agreements. Arrangements have been
made with the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock and CREA, a regional
development agency, to coordinate the provision of extension services with
development credit to small farmers. Nevertheless, sublending to small farmers
has moved slowly because of lack of capacity for project identification on the
part of participating banks.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a disappointingly slow pace and
three years after effectiveness, only about US$400,000 has been disbursed.
Contracts have been signed for seven of ten selected studies and work is
progressing on drafting satisfactory terms of reference and on bidding and
contracting for most of the others. The project list has undergone revision
and a final list is being prepared with the present Government. Four of
the five experts to be hired under the project are on board. New management
of executing agency is seeking to accelerate project execution.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
This integrated rural development project is just getting underway
after almost a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between the
Central Bank and participating agencies. A Project Unit has been established,
experts have been recruited, and infrastructure planning begun. Contact with
farmers and community groups has been underway for the past year.



-32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date:  September 23, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is expected
to disburse quickly as participating DFCs have a backlog of industrial sub-
projects under review. It was almost fully committed within four months
of effectiveness date.
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan
of May 9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project is the Bank's first integrated urban development project
in Ecuador. Project Units in Housing Bank and Municipality are established
and proceeding with first steps of project execution. Subsidiary Agreements
have been signed between the Central Bank and participating agencies.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan
of October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981;
Closing Date December 31, 1984.
This project recently became effective. CFN, the executing agency,
began accepting applications for subloan rediscounts in March 1981. Some
13 banks and 10 development finance companies have signed participation
agreements with CFN.
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highways Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date:                  ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
This project was recently signed. The Feeder Roads project Unit
was established in January 1981 and agreements with the three participating
provinces have been signed.



010                                                                               ' N j   ;)$   0   fJCoXngAoma  /   aS    4ECUADOR
r *n nScn R.mdny 2 sw 2 I V }' \ PUERTO  LA CHONE
) < \ / \~~~~~~11                                                                               RURAL   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
El PorJ  X   rJ:}Aro) enX  >g<J/ -   //  uer..   llo   p)                      FIRST  PHASE
Mon                                                                                                                *   >ir : L.Tqfll- --e- - P.no   .. .,
L- D.                                                                                                             49 H-M X     . ba-t-
# ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~p                                   d.  \-                G.b.,t                                 0      H-t>      p ,,E0fg
-               RURAL~~S. -dEVLOMET  ROEC
t h ,JI1 S   SAl.  La Toqorli*          r@/Noeve BellR Srdi        /                                                              L        1429-EQ:
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
I OLovilvlxaes any l ydo   l  . th                                                                                                    D-e -  Plerp  R-a- eNt p,e,
7r,1 ^.S S.e... olrAb.rrO  ....Ie  a   >saX ce do Moore
0~~~'  S                    0                                           0   Se,rebreednEDOnte
~~~~~~~)   )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~           ~            ~            ~           ~           ~            C



