Document of
The World Bank
r-ILECP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    IL    E
Report No. 3278-EC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 13, 1981
Project Department
Latín America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Agriculture 4 Division
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforzuance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(at December 1980 exchange rate)
US$            =      Ecuadoran Sucres    S/ 25.00
S/ 100         =                            US$4.00
S/ 1 million   =                       US$40,000.00
Weights and Measures
2
1 hectare (ha)             =     10,000 m   =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =     1,000 m    =  0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)            =     2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)          =     1,000 kg = 2,200 pounds
1 quintal (q)              =     100 pounds = 45.4 kg
1 liter (1)                =     0.26 gallons



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Glossary of Abbreviations
ASAs             Agencias de Servicios Agropecuarios
(Agricultural Service Agencies)
BNF              Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
CONADE           Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
DINACE           Direccion Nacional de Construcciones Escolares del MEC
(Directorate of School Construction of MEC)
FONAPRE          Fondo Nacional de Pre-inversion
(National Pre-Investment Fund)
FONADRI          Fondo Nacional Para El Desarrollo Rural Integral
(Integrated Rural Development Fund)
IEOS             Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias
(Ecuadoran Institute of Sanitary Works)
IERAC            Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizacion
(Ecuadoran Land Reform and Land Settlement Institute)
INIAP            Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MAG              Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
MEC              Ministerio de Educacion y Cultura
(Ministry of Education and Culture)
MOP              Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones
(Mínistry of Public Works and Communications)
MSP              Ministerio de Salud Publica
(Ministry of Public Health)
PIDAs             Proyectos Integrados de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Integrated Agricultural Development Projects)
SEDRI            Secretaria de Desarrollo Rural Integral
(Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development)
UE.              Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto
(Project Executing Unit)
UPAs             Unidades de Produccion Agropecuaria
(Agricultural Production Units)
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
,e. No.
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........................................                   1
Sector Character             1 Performance .........................               1
The Rural Subsect. .......................................                         1
Resource Base .....          .......................................               2
Government Objectives -ad Strategy .............................                   2
Bank Involvement and Strategy for the Sector ...................                   3
II. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK - PARTICIPATING AGENCIES ...........          ....         4
The Integrated Rural Development Framework ....            .................
The Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development (SEDRI) .......                   4
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) ....             ............      5
National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP) ....             ...........      5
Ecuadoran Land Reform   ~ Land Settlement Institute (IERAC) ....
National Developme-   . BNF)..                 .         .
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP) .
Ministry of Public Hcalth (MSP).
Ecuadorian Institul  of Sanitary Works (IEOS) .
Mínistry of Educat  and Culture (MEC) .
III. THE PROJECT AREA .
Location and Access.
Topography and Soais.
Climate .......
Land Tenure ....................................................
Land Use .       .......................................................
Population, Employment and Farm Income .........................
Agricultural Servi. .  ..........................................
Agricultural Ext on .
Agricultural Cr. .......................................                        12
Social Services .            ......................................               12
IV. THE PROJECT .....           ........................................              1
A. Project Origir    ief Description .13
Project Ori{         Formulation ............................               1^
Brief DescripLIt:i_  .....................................  
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. J. Roman, S. Miquel, F. Sands and J.E. Fernandez (Bank) and Mr. P. Arnoid,
(consultant) that visited Ecuador in July 1980, and a post-appraisal mission
consisting of Mr. Roman (Bank) and Dr. J. Saravia (consultant) in November 1980.
Also contributing to the report were Ms. L. Wardle, Messrs. J. Intrator and
0. Echeverri.



Page No.
B.   Detailed Features  ..........................................                                 14
Agricultural Extensíon Program  ...........................                                14
Land Ownership Legalization  and Titling  ..................                               16
Feeder Roads  .............................................                                16
Civíl Works  ............................................                               16
Road Maintenance  .......................................                               17
Health  Care Services  .....................................                               17
Sanitation  ...............................................                                17
School  Construction  ......................................                               18
C.   Project  Costs  ..............................................                                18
D.   Financing  ..................................................                                 20
E.   Procurement  ................................................                                 21
F.   Disbursements  ..............................................                                 22
G.   Accounts  and Audit  .........................................                                23
V.      ORGANIZATION,  MANAGEMENT AND  IMPLEMENTATION  ....................                                 23
Organization  and Management  - Executing Unit  ...................                                23
Implementation  .................................................                                  24
Implementation Agreements  ......................................                                  24
Project  Funding  ................................................                                 25
Operation of the Agricultural  Extension  Service  ....                         ............       25
Organization  ................................................                                 25
Training  ....................................................                                 25
Consultants  .................................................                                 26
Lending Terms  and Conditions  for Agricultural  Credit  ....                        .......       26
Monitoring and Evaluation  ......................................                                  27
VI.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM BENEFITS .28
Land Use and Cropping Pattern, Yíelds and Production .28
Prices .29
Marketing .30
Farmer Benefits .30
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .31
Benefíts .31
Economic Analysis .31
Project Rísks .32
Environmental Impact .32
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .32



- iii -
ANNEXES
I.   Supporting Tables
1.     Ecuador, Volume and Value of Agricultural Production by Commodity,
Indices of Total Agricultural and Food Production, Average 1961-65,
Annual 1969-1978
2.     Value of Agricultural Exports and Imports, 1967-1977
3.(a) Extension Service - Cost Summary
3.(b) Extension Service, Agricultural Centers and Marketing Facilities,
Building Costs
3.(c) Agricultural Extension, Santo Domingo Swine Breeding Station,
Investment Costs
3.(d) Agricultural Extension, Forestry Nursery, Investment Schedule
3.(e) Agricultural Extension Service, Staffing and Costs
3.(f) Agricultural Extension Service, Operation and Maintenance Costs
4.(a) Land Ownership Legalization and Titling Program, Schedule of
Implementation
4.(b) Land Ownership Legalization and Titling, Investment and Operating Costs
4.(c) Land Ownership Legalization and Titling, IERAC's Fíeld Incremental
Staff and Salaries
5.(a) Feeder Roads, Cost Estimates
5.(b) Feeder Roads, Road Network in the Project Area
5.(c) Feeder Roads, Minimum Design Standards
5.(d) Feeder Roads, Annual Road Construction Program
5.(e) Feeder Roads, Road Maintenance Equipment
6.(a) Health Component - Total Cost and Schedule of Expenditures
6.(b) Health Component - Investment Costs
6.(c) Health Component - Operating Costs
7.     Project Executing Unit, Cost Estimates
8.     Project Costs
9.     Schedule of Investments
10.    Project Financing
1l.(a) Cropping Patterns With and Without Project in Farms up to 100 ha
l1.(b) Cropping Pattern on a Small-scale Farm (up to 10 ha)
ll.(c) Cropping Pattern on a Medium-scale Farm (11-20 ha)
11.(d) Cropping Pattern on a Medium-scale Farm (21-50 ha)
11.(e) Cropping Pattern on a Large-scale Farm (51-100 ha)



- iv -
12.    Yield per Hectare by Year
13.    Agricultural Production by Size of Farms, Without and With Project
14.    Production Cost per Hectare for Annuals, Without and With Project
15.    Estimated Production Costs per ha, Perennials, Without Project
16.    Cacao Renovation Investment and Operational Costs per Rectare
17.    Cacao Rehabilitation Investment and Operational Costs per Rectare
18.    Coffee Rehabilitation Investment and Operational Costs per Rectare
19.    Coffee Renovation Investment and Operational Costs per Hectare
20.    Banana Rehabilitation Investment and Operational Costs per Hectare
21.(a) Livestock Development on a Medium-scale Farm
21.(b) Livestock Development Model for a Medium-scale Farm
21.(c) Livestock Investment, Operational Costs and Income, for Farm Models
II, III and IV
22.    Farmers' Swine Fattening Model
23.    Market and Economic Prices
24.(a) Model No. 1 0-10 ha Farm Budget Analysis
24.(b) Model No. 2 11-20 ha Farm Budget Analysis
24.(c) Model No. 3  21-50 ha Farm Budget Analysis
24.(d) Model No. 4 51-100 ha Farm Budget Analysis
25.(a) Total Incremental Demand for Labor, Mandays
25.(b) Model No. 1 10 ha Farm Budget Analysis, Demand for Labor, Mandays
25.(c) Model No. 2 11-20 ha Farm Budget Analysis, Demand for Labor, Mandays
25.(d) Model No. 3 21-50 ha Farm Budget Analysis, Demand for Labor, Mandays
25.(e) Model No. 4 51-100 ha Farm Budget Analysis, Demand for Labor, Mandays
26.    Economic Analysis
27.    Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
II. Related Documents and Data Available in Project- Files
CHART
1.   Implementation Schedule (22211)
MAP
IBRD 15300



I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Characteristics and Performance
1.01      Despite the rapid development of petroleum production and the
steady growth of manufacturing during the 1970s, agriculture continues to
be one of the important sectors of the Ecuadorian economy. The sector s
contríbution to GDP declined from 23% in 1972 to 14% in 1980, and its
growth rate over this period was only 1.6% per annum. Subsector growth
rates between 1972 and 1978 were 0.6% for crops, 3.9% for livestock, 9.6% for
forestry and 7.4% for fisheries. Agriculture's relative contribution to total
exports has also been displaced by petroleum. Agricultural exports decreased
from 75% of total exports in 1970 to 26% in 1980. Nevertheless, the agricul-
tural sector provides employment to nearly half the country's labor force, and
the sector's potential contribution to national production remains high.
Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2 present information on agriculture productíon and
exports.
1.02      Since Ecuadoran agriculture is traditional and export-oriented,
food production has stagnated and therefore is lagging behind the continuously
increasing demand for food resulting from a high population growth (3.3%) and
higher incomes in the urban areas.  With food production lagging, overall
growth demand for food has spilled over into imports and supply shortages have
exerted an upward pressure on domestic food prices; main imports are vegetable
oils, animal fats and dairy products, supplemented from time to time by rice
and sugar.
1.03      The domestic food supply problem now emerging, as evidenced by
upward pressures on food prices and increasing imports, is partly a result
of the chaín of events set in motion by the petroleum-based economic expansion
which began in the early 1970s, along with unfavorable weather conditions in
1977 and early 1978 and, in the case of sugar, poor labor-management relations.
While in the past much of the growth in agriculture was achieved by settle-
ment of new lands (mostly in the Costa) and was export-oriented, most of
this was done by private initiatíve with the Government helpíng through
the provision of basic infrastructure (such as roads). The increase in
food production now needed requires a basic shift with more emphasis to be
put on the transfer to farmers of new technology, more farm-level technical
guidance, better methods of agrícultural organization and more incentives
to farmers in the field of pricing and marketing of agricultural produce.
Although the Government is aware of these shortcomings, its public sector
services in the field of agriculture will need a great deal of upgrading
and policy guidance to address these issues effectively.
The Rural Subsector
1.04      Although Ecuador has been subject to an accelerated urbanization
process, 57% of its 7.8 million population still live ín rural areas and
about half of them, or 30% of the total, are Indians. About 2.9 million
(65%) of the rural population, have per capita incomes below the US$183
absolute poverty income level. While rural poverty is a national problem,
it is generally more serious in the híghlands (Sierra) where the Indian
population lives and where there is a continuous migration to the Costa
and Oriente regions.



1.05      Education, health and living conditions of the rural population are
poor and social services are inadequate. Although statistics show a relatively
high (74%) literacy rate, a high proportion of the rural population is function-
ally illiterate; schools and education centers are usually located in large
populated areas and villages, making it difficult for the widely dispersed
rural population to use the facilities. Curricula are academically oriented
and include very little vocational training; teachers are not adequately
trained or paid and their living conditions are poor. Most of the rural
population is affected by water-borne and fecally transmitted diseases; about
45% are anemic and 40% are undernourished. Despite Government efforts
to extend health service coverage, a high proportion of the rural population
still does not have access to primary health care. Besides, health programs
are mainly curative and do not give enough emphasis to preventive medicine;
also, cultural and economic barriers make the population reluctant to use
the services. Finally, only 13% of the rural dwellings have access to public
water supply and to sanitation facilities.
Resource Base
1.06      Ecuador is divided into three ecological regions--the Costa, Sierra
anc. Oriente.  The Costa, covering about one-fourth of the country's 26.1 million
ha, and accounting for about 50% of the 7.8 million population, comprises the low
coastal humid-tropical lands in the western part of the country; it is the region
with the best agricultural potential and produces bananas, plantains, coffee,
cacao, sugarcane, beef, hard corn, cassava, citrus and oil crops (annual and
perennial). A major portion of the area is being exploited, but much land
still remains to be brought under cultivation. Some areas, such as the Puerto
lía Chone and Esmeraldas, to the north of the region, are still being settled.
The Sierra accounts for another fourth of the country's area and about 47% of
the population, comprises the Andean highlands with broken terrain, high
valleys, and a variety of climatic conditions. This region produces temperate
climate foodgrains and pulses, as well as potatoes, vegetables, deciduous
fruits and dairy products. The Oriente region covers slightly more than half
of the Ecuadoran territory at the east of the Andean mountains in the Amazon
basin and accounts for only 3% of the population. This region suffers from
having only limited access, but with construction of roads and the exploita-
tion of oil, spontaneous settlements are taking place with some Government
support. Although the Amazon basin has limited agricultural potential,
some areas have good soil suitable for intensive cultivation of tree crops
and natural and artificial pastures for livestock development.
Government Objectives and Strategy
1.07      The Government's development objectives for the agricultural sector
in general and for the rural poor in particular are stated in the recently
publíshed 1980-84 development plan. These objectives are to increase pro-
duction and productivity in order to ensure self-sufficiency in food and
to increase exports, thereby increasing income and living standards of the
rural population. In conjunction with production objectives, the plan also
aims at strengthening farmers' organizations and participation in the decision-
making process and at improving social services in. the rural areas. The plan



- 3 -
includes implementation of an integrated rural development program consisting
of 17 projects, some of which are already being executed and many are in
preparation. The on-going Tungurahua Project (Loan 1644-EC) and the proposed
Puerto Ila Chone and Esmeraldas projects are included in the program.
Projected Government public investments amount to US$800 million over the
five-year plan period. The success of this program, however, would depend on
decisive efforts by the Government to improve public sector capabilities for
preparing and implementing projects.
Bank Involvement and Strategy for the Sector
1.08      IDA and the Bank have made nine agricultural credits and loans to
Ecuador in the period 1967-79. Four of them, totalling US$30.7 million,
were for livestock and general agricultural development credit--Livestock I
(Loan 501-EC) for US$3.7 million in 1967, Livestock II (Credit 173-EC) for
US$1.5 million in 1969, Livestock III (Credit 222-EC) for US$10 million in
1970, and Agriculture I (Loan 1459-EC) for US$15.5 million in 1977. Disburse-
ments of Loan 501 were completed about six months ahead of schedule and Credit
173 was a small "bridge" operation. A PPAR (SecM75-735) covering both projects,
states that the projects resulted in a 6% increase in the Ecuadoran beef
cattle herd and caused notable improvements on participating farms, but that,
because the technology proposed was capital-intensive and participation
limited to large producers only, the impact on income distribution was
regressive. The Livestock III Project was completed two years behind schedule
and its PPAR (SecM80-10) states that, while the project made an impact on
beef and milk production, mostly through increases in herd size, it was not
of the magnitude expected. The PPAR also questions the need for the project
on the grounds that production increases were, for the most part, due to price
incentives established by the Government at the time of the project and
that project benefits accrued only to middle and upper income producers.
The ongoing First Agricultural Credit Project took into account the lessons
learned in the previous projects. It provides financing for all agricultural
activities and agroindustry and includes a separate component for small-
scale farmers. It had a slow start but it is now progressing satisfactorily;
funds allocated to medium- and large-scale farmers have been fully committed,
but the small-scale farmer and agroindustry components have moved slowly
because of a lack of capacity for subproject identification and preparation
and technical assistance on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock and participating banks.
1.09      The status of the remaining projects is as follows.  The Fisheries
Project (Loan 555-EC) of 1968 for US$5.0 million, later reduced to US$3.9 million,
was completed in 1980 and a completion report is under preparation. On the
Milagro Irrigation Project (Credit 425-EC) of 1973 for US$5.5 million, the main
irrigation works were completed ahead of schedule but because of land tenure
problems and lack of agricultural extension farm development and construction
of the distribution system was delayed. At the closing date US$1.1 million was
left undisbursed. The Seeds Project (Loan 1229-EC) of 1976 for US$3.0 million
has been delayed due to administrative and managerial problems and shortage
of counterpart funds; the closing date was extended for two years and, with
new management, project performance is now improving. The Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 1230-EC) of 1976 for US$4.0 million has partially
achieved its objectives but loan disbursements have been very slow because of



- 4 -
the complicated procedures of the National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE)
for making subloans and because use of funds was restricted to financing only
the foreign exchange costs of consulting services; in September 1980, the
loan closing date was extended two years and loan financing was expanded to
partially cover local costs, which is expected to speed up implementation.
The Tungurahua Rural Development Project I (Loan 1644-EC) of 1979 for US$18
million initially had problems in the processing and signing of operational
agreements between the Central Bank and the executing agencies; however, the
difficulties have been overcome and project investments are starting.
1.10      In addition to the aforementioned projects, Highways Projects V
(Loan 1429-EC of 1977) and VI (Loan 1882-EC of 1980) include substantial
feeder road components, aimed at improving access and the transport of produce
in rural areas.
1.11      For the future, the Bank intends to pursue its efforts to foster
agricultural and rural development in Ecuador. A third rural development
project, Esmeraldas, was recently appraised and further operations in agri-
cultural credit, irrigation and rural development are under consideration. In
all these projects, substantial efforts would be made to strengthen the manag-
erial and implementation capabilities of the agricultural public sector which
has been and still is the main bottleneck in the preparation and execution of
projects.
II. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK - PARTICIPATING AGENCIES
The Integrated Rural Development Framework
2.01      Until recently, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG)
was responsible for rural development in Ecuador, but in October 1980, the
Government established an institutional framework to promote integrated
rural development within the national system of public administration. Under
this new scheme, the President of the Republic formulates policy on rural
development and approves the National Program of Rural Development Projects.
The National Development Council (CONADE) proposes the national program to the
President and is responsible for monítoring and evaluation of the projects.
The Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development (SEDRI), created by the same
degree, is responsible for programming, preparation and coordination of imple-
mentation and for channeling of funds to the 17 rural development projects in-
cluded in the national plan. Project implementation will be the responsibility
of Executing Units (UEs) to be established for each project, with the participa-
tion of ministries and of public and private specialized agencies. To finance
implementation of the Rural Development Program, the Government also established
the Integrated Rural Development Fund (FONADRI) in the Central Bank; through
this fund, SEDRI will channel both local and external financing for the projects.
This new administrative framework is expected to resolve the coordination and
financial problems affecting rural development activities in Ecuador.
The Secretariat for Integrated Rural Development (SEDRI)
2.02      SEDRI and its project executing units are to be the executive arm
of the Rural Development Program. SEDRI is attached to the Office of the



- 5 -
President of the Republic and its head, the Secretary, reports to the President
through the general secretary for Public Administration. Its headquarters are
in Quito. An advisory committee made up of one representative each of CONADE,
the Ministries of Agriculture and of Social Welfare, the Provincial Councils,
the prívate rural development organizations and the organizations of farmers
and Indians, advise the secretary on the general policy matters, but it does
not have decision-making authority. At the central level, SEDRI is organized
in three General Directorates: Programming, Technical and Administrative.
The technical directorate is the operating branch of SEDRI, and consists of
the departments of Projects and Farmers Organization and Training. SEDRI
staff, at headquarters, consists of 25 technicians and 20 administrative and
support personnel. The UEs are headed by a project director reporting to the
secretary of SEDRI and are made up of technical staff seconded by the partici-
pating agencies and administrative staff belonging to SEDRI. Participation of
the minístries and specialized agencies is ensured and spelled out by means of
project specific agreements that SEDRI signs with each of the. It is expected
that, because of its direct access to the president, SEDRI wíll enjoy certain
amount of political and bureaucratic influence, and, therefore, it would be
able to establish adequate coordination among Government agencies and speed up
implementation of projects. For the purpose of the proposed project SEDRI
would establish the executing unit in El Carmen.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG)
2.03      MAG is the ministry in charge of formulating and applying policy
on agriculture research, production and marketing of agricultural products,
agrarian reform, land settlement, irrigation and adequate use of renewable
resources. Implementation of most of these policies is carried out by spe-
cialized autonomous agencies, while the ministry itself undertakes production
support and organization of farmers' activities through its local offíces.
2.04      In November 1980, the organizational structure of MAG was changed.
Under the new organization, the ministry will operate at four levels:
Executive (Minister and General Undersecretary); Advisory (Agrarian Superior
Council, National Planning, Legal, Security for Development and Internal
Auditing); Auxiliary (Administration and Finance, International Affairs and
Public Relations); and Operational (Technical Undersecretariat).
2.05      The Technical Undersecretariat is headed by an Undersecretary and
consists of four departments--Programming and Evaluation, Technical Norms,
Campesino Development and Extension--and 14 national commodity-oriented
programs---banana, rice, cacao, coffee, cotton and oilseeds, corn, cereals,
livestock, forestry, control of plant diseases, animal health, soil conservation,
agricultural mechanization, and seeds. The departments of Campesino Development
and Extension would participate in the project in the organization and training
of farmers and in extension work and the cacao, coffee and livestock programs
would assist in production matters.
2.06      Regional operations of MAG are carried out by 10 Agricultural Pro-
vincial Directorates (DPAs), one for each province, in cooperatíon with the
national programs and under the supervísion of the general directorates. The
DPAs carry out field work through the Agricultural Service Agencies (ASAs) and
the Integrated Agricultural Development Projects (PIDAs). The ASAs operate at



- 6 -
the subregional level and generally are responsible for extension and other
agricultural services to farmers. The PIDAs operate in areas where the
Minístry implements a multi-sectoral project, directed mainly toward small-
scale farmers and including, not only agriculture, but also other development
programs such as feeder roads and social infrastructure. While the national
programs have a single commodity approach, oriented mainly toward assisting
commercial farmers, the ASAs and PIDAs take an integrated approach, aiming at
overall development of small- and medium-sized farms. Although the regional
offices have their own budgets and are independent of the central offices in
Quito, their authority is limited, mainly when it comes to hiring staff and
procuring goods and services. The project area falls into the jurisdiction of
three DPAs: Manabi, Pichincha and Los Rios--and three ASAs--El Carmen, Santo
Domingo and Quevedo. Of them, the El Carmen ASA is the most active, having a
small team devoted exclusively to the project.
2.07      MAG suffers from the general structural and operational problems
which affect the entire Ecuadoran public sector. Professionals, especially
medium-level technicians, are in short supply and low salaries make it
difficult for MAG to attract and hold qualified staff, particularly at the
field level where living conditions are usually poor. Cumbersome administra-
tive procedures (which often lead to overlapping of zuthority among agencies),
expanded operations not properly funded and untimely allocation of resources
seriously hamper MAG's effectiveness; thus, few DPAs and, through them,
ASAs and PIDAs operate effectively in the field. Moreover, frequent
reorganizations and management changes have created uncertainty and affected
staff morale and have led to a lack of policy guidance in agriculture; as a
result, MAG's reputation is not that of an efficiently run organization.
Therefore, for most agricultural Bank-financed projects, a special executing
unit with some degree of administrative and financial autonomy has had to be
established to provide adequate management.
National Agricultural Research Institute (INIAP)
2.08      INIAP, responsible for crop and livestock research, works through
a head office in Quito and six experimental stations: one in the Sierra
region, one in the Oriente region and four in the Costa. The Pichílingue
and the Santo Domingo stations in the Costa would support the project.
INIAP has enjoyed the support of the Government and external donors, which
made it possible for it to assemble a highly qualified staff and establish
a fine research program. INIAP has made sígníficant contríbutíons in devel-
oping and adaptíng improved varíetíes and productíon techníques for cacao, oil
palm, coffee, cassava, potatoes, wheat and corn as well as for swine production.
However, the lack of adequate extensíon and other production support services
has hampered the dissemination of agricultural technology to medium- and
small-scale farmers. INIAP is a partícipatíng agency in three agricultural
projects currently being financed by the Bank, and its performance, although
limited in scope, has been good.
Ecuadorían Land Reform and Land Settlement (IERAC)
2.09      IERAC is responsible for the expropriation and redistribution of
land, the management and settlement of national lands, and the granting of
titles. It has 10 regional offices, three of which have jurisdiction over



- 7 -
the project area--Santo Domingo, El Carmen and Quevedo. Unfortunately, IERAC
has been handicapped by lack of Government support, inadequate financial
resources, a high rate of management turnover, and complicated and lengthy
titling procedures. Consequently, the impact of the agrarian reform program on
improving income distribution has been very limited. The Government carried
out a study on the impact of agrarian reform in Ecuador, but it has not been
made public and therefore there is no comprehensive information on the matter.
IERAC claims that since 1964 it has expropriated and redistributed some 580,000 ha
to 66,000 families and has settled and granted provisory or firm land titles
to about 100,000 families, involving 2.2 million ha of land.  In relative
terms, IERAC has been more successful in land settlement than in land distri-
bution. Although it has not been able to control spontaneous settlement, which
is understandable, it has been able to achieve at least a relatively uniform
distribution of land in the new settlement areas in which it has intervened.
This has been the case in Santo Domingo de los Colorados, to the north of the
project area, the project area itself and the Napo Province in Oriente.
However, lack of adequate follow-up action and a long processing period for
land titles has led to illegal ownership transfers, resulting in abnormal
conditions of land tenure.
Natíonal Development Bank (BNF)
2.10      BNF, a Government-owned bank which was created in 1928, is the
largest bank and the most ímportant source of agricultural credit in Ecuador.
BNF has 2,900 employees with a network of 65 branches and 10 agencies
covering the entire country. BNF's main sources of funds are its equity,
rediscounts from the Central Bank--trust funds and development bonds--and
external loans. BNF has received no direct loans from the Bank, but it has
been the main financial institution participating in Bank-financed livestock
and agricultural credit projects in Ecuador.
2.11      In 1979, BNF's agricultural lending was S/ 3.1 billion (US$125.2
million), amounting to about 76% of its total lending operations and to 53%
of total lending to agriculture in the country. At the end of that year,
its total agricultural loan portfolio was S/ 10.8 billion (US$432.0 million).
BNF's lending operations can be divided into two categories: (a) credito
de capacitacion - loans to small-scale farmers, defined as those with total
net assets, including land, not exceeding SI 750,000 (US$30,000) at 9% inter-
est; and (b) credito bancario - loans to all other beneficiaries at interest
rates between 9% and 12% plus commissions, depending on the repaymant period.
Regarding repayment terms, about 70% of the annual loans are short-term and
the remaining 30%, medium and long term.
2.12      BNF has made a valuable contribution to agricultural development in
Ecuador. However, in the 1970s with the oil boom, it received large amounts
of Government resources and had to carry out credit operations initiated by MAG
and directed to producers that often were not creditworthy. Moreover, BNF did
not have sufficient qualified technical staff for credit evaluation, supervision
and technical assistance, and it was, therefore, not prepared to manage this
sudden increase in operations. As a result, by the end of 1976, the quality
of BNF's portfolio had deteriorated considerably. After writing off 5% of the
delinquent loans and rescheduling 38% of the outstanding debt, overdues were
19%. In 1978 the Government made another substantial capital contribution
which, as the previous ones, has enabled BNF to maintain a constant level of
lending in real terms and to cover its operating expenses.



-8-
2.13      In 1979, a new management was appointed by the Government and
committed itself to making BNF an efficient banking institution.  To support
this commitment, a three-year UNDP/FAO technical assistance project has been
underway since mid-1980. It provides for 102 man-months of expatriate specialists
to assist BNF in improving its managerial, technical and operating capabilities.
Furthermore, in compliance with commitments made under Bank's and IDB's loans,
BNF has retained a well-known international firm of auditors to audit is
financial statements and to revise its accounting procedures.  The firm has
already completed the auditing of 1978 accounts and has presented detailed
proposals for changes in accounting practices to correctly reflect the
financial situation of BNF. The proposals are in the course of implementation
and the auditors are proceeding with the auditing of 1979 and 1980 accounts,
which are expected to be completed by mid-1981. The joint effort by BNF's
new management, the UNDP/FAO and the auditors will undoubtedly result in
significant changes in BNF's operations.
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOP)
2.14      MOP is primarily responsible for overall planning, construction and
maintenance of the main highways system of the country and for coordinating
construction of secondary and feeder roads. Feeder roads in Ecuador are cur-
rently constructed by the provincial governments and by other Government
institutions for their own specialized purposes. MOP has implemented four
Bank-financed highway projects (Loans 94-EC, 176-EC, and 379-EC and Credit
51-EC) and has three more under implementation (Loan 1231-EC, 1429-EC and
1882-EC). Thus far, Bank experience with MOP has been good and it may be
considered one of the best agencies the Bank is dealing with in Ecuador.
Ministry of Public Health (MSP)
2.15      MSP was created in 1967, but it was only in 1977 that it took over
responsibility for rural health. MSP's functions are handled by two under-
secretaries: Public Health and Environmental Health. The former consists
of a Directorate General, three administrative and five operational departments,
and four specialized institutes and services. The National Rural Develop-
ment Department is responsible for staffing and supervising rural health
facilities and for promoting community participation. At the provincial level,
MSP has the Provincial Health Departments reporting directly to the Directorate
General. MSP is developing a regionalized health system consisting of health
promoters, health posts, subcenters and centers at the local level, base
hospitals at the provincial level, and specialized and university hospitals in
major cities. Patients are to be referred from the health promoters upwards.
However, because of transportation and other operational constraints, this is
not always possible. Health facilities are unevenly distributed and sometimes
underutilized, because of lack of staff or medicines and other imputs, and
because they often do not enjoy the confidence of the population. About 25%
of the population, mainly those living in isolated areas, do not have access
to health servíces and instead seek help from tradítional healers and mídwives.
An addítíonal 40% do not use available health services because of cultural and
economic constraints.



- 9-
Ecuadoran Institute of Sanitary Works (IEOS)
2.16      IEOS is a semi-autonomous agency reporting to the undersecretariat of
Environmental Health of MSP.  It is responsible for: (a) design and construc-
tion of health facilities; and (b) planning, design and construction of
water supply and sewerage works in the country, except for Quito and Guayaquil.
IEOS has extensive experience in constructing sanitary works and has carried out
several national plans wíth IDB financing. It is now in a transitional period
of reorganization, which has caused operations to slow down, but it is expected
that once this period is over, IEOS will resume its normal working pace.
Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC)
2.17      MEC is responsible for the overall administration of the educational
system in Ecuador, below uníversíty level. Under the direction of the minister
and a vice-minister, MEC operates through five national directorates; among
them are the directorates of Planning (DNP) and School Construction (DINACE)
and the of National Education (DNE) which is responsible for staffing and
operation through provincial directorates. Although properly structured
to cover all aspects of education, MEC's effectiveness is weakened by frequent
managerial changes, excessive paper work and shortage of qualified personnel
and equipment. DNP is very weak and therefore DINACE prepares practically all
construction plans on its own and carries them out independently.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Access
3.01      The project area is located in the western foothílls of the Andean
mountains southwest of Sto. Domingo de los Colorados, in the jurisdiction
of Manabi, Pichincha, Los Rios, and Guayas provinces (IBRD Map No. 15300R).
It covers slightly more than 170,000 ha, lying between 27 km north and 30 km
south of the Puerto Ila-Doblones road, between the Sto. Domingo-Quevedo
highway in the east and the right bank of the Daule River in the west. The
area is part of the Daule-Peripa watershed and the reservoir of the Daule-
Peripa dam, to be constructed downstream of the confluence of these two
rívers, is expected to flood about 16,000 ha below 85 m above sea level. The
Quito-Guayaquil highway borders the project and connects it with the rest of
the country, while the Puerto Ila-Doblones road (29 km) under construction
(Loan 1429-EC), bisects the area providing access to its central part. The
road network wíthin the area consists of 100 km of all-weather roads, cur-
rently maintained by MOP, and about 250 km of seasonal track roads of which
49 km will be upgraded to all-weather class under the Fifth Highways Project
(Loan 1429-EC). Also, the Daule and Peripa rivers are navigable by small
boats, providing access to the area as well as internal communication within
the area.



- 10 -
Topography and Soils
3.02      The area is flat to rolling, with deep valleys and sharp dissections
close to the Daule-Peripa and other tributary rivers. The area slopes gently
north-south and elevation ranges from 120 m in the north to about 60 m at the
riverbeds. The soils are volcanic, deep and friable, with favorable drainage
characteristics; fertility is low to moderate but generally suitable for per-
ennial crops and pasture. There appear to be no natural physical constraints
to achieving high crop production on these soils.
Climate
3.03      The climate in the project area is humid-tropical.  Average annual
rainfall is about 2,800 mm. There is a síx- to seven-month wet period
(December to April) but little precipitation during the rest of the Xear.
The average temperature is 24 0C, with the maximum ranging between 30 C
and 350C from July to December and the minimum, between 15 0C and 200C from
February to April. Relative humidity ranges between 75% and 92%.
Land Tenure
3.04      Under its land settlement program, IERAC originally parcelled out
most of the land in the project area and granted provisory land titles on
farms of 40 to 50 ha.  However, in accordance with the Agrarian Reform Law,
IERAC retained control of land tenure by requiring that all subsequent land
ownership transactions be authorized, mainly to prevent land being subdivided
into uneconomical units.  After receivíng their farms from IERAC, however,
many landholders failed to legalize their land titles and some sold or
transferred the land without IERAC's authorization, using informal documents
with no legal value.  As a result, some farms in the eastern part of the
project area were consolidated into larger units, while in the western part,
landholdings were subdivided into smaller units. There is no cadastral
information available, but according to the consultants' survey, there are
presently some 4,800 agricultural production units (UPAs) whose dístribution
by size is as follows:
Average
Size                    Farms                Area          Size
No.      %         Ha         %        Ha
Less than 10 ha           1,087      23      5,707       3         5
Between 10 and 20 ha        929     20      12,831       8        14
20 to 50 ha              1,978      41      62,480      36        32
50 to 100 ha                606     13      33,300      20        55
100 to 500 ha               176      4      32,614      19      185
More than 500 ha             24      -      24,718      14    1,030
4,800    100    171,650    100          37
3.05      Because of the illegal land transactions, it is estimated that
about 80% of the farms under 100 ha - all farms under 20 ha and most of
those between 20 and 50 ha - have no legal land titles and, therefore,
under BNF rules, are not eligible for long-term credit (para 4.12).



- 11 -
Land Use
3.06      The project area is a zone of recent settlement still in the
process of incorporation and development.  There are some 64,180 ha (37%)
under crops, of which 20,700 ha are in cacao; 15,900 ha in coffee; 7,920 ha in
plantain; 6,500 ha in oil palm; and 13,160 ha in annual crops and others. Of
the remaining area, 74,310 ha (43.3%) are under pasture and 33,140 ha (19.3%)
are in forest. Land use is typically related to farm size. Oil palm, abaca
and rubber are grown only on large farms located in the eastern part of the
area, east of the Peripa River. In farms smaller than 20 ha, 50 to 60% of the
land is in crops, mainly coffee, cacao and plaintain, 20 to 30% in pasture and
20 to 30% in forest. The larger the farm over 20 ha, the less cropping and
the more pastureland, with forest maintaining its share of 20 to 30%.
3.07      The medium and small-scale farmers' main cash crops are coffee, and
plaintain which are usually intermixed with each other. Annual crops, the
main ones being maize, beans, cassava and peanuts, are grown almost exclusively
for subsistence and animal feed. Few farmers use fertilizers, improved cultural
practices, and disease and insect control measures. Also, poor harvesting,
processing and marketing procedures further reduce productivity and quality,
mainly of cacao and coffee. Consequently, yields are low: cacao, 0.20 ton/ha;
coffee, 0.20 ton/ha; and bananas, 5.0 tons/ha (para 6.01). Pasturelands
are sown in cleared land to panicum maximum, which is ideally suited to
the area. Since long-term credit is not available to purchase cattle, pasture-
lands are underutilized and poorly managed. Farmers, primarily the smaller
scale ones, also raise pigs and poultry on a semi-commercial basis under
extensive conditions. Trials have shown that production of pigs can be improved
by making better use of locally grown crop residues. Forest trees are usually
maintained in the steeper parts of the farms for land protection, firewood and
on-farm construction purposes. Since the original species have been removed,
the existing forest is all secondary growth.
Population, Employment and Farm Income
3.08      In 1980, there were an estimated 65,000 persons, or about 10,000
families, in the project area. The region was subject to a high imnigration
flow and population grew at an 8.3% annual rate during the past years. How-
ever, since the area is settled, imnigration flow and population growth
are expected to decline in the next years. All of the project area is
rural and there are no large centers. El Carmen (9,000 inhabitants)
just north of the project area is the nearest town and the main develop-
ment center. The larger cities of Sto. Domingo de los Colorados to the
northeast and Quevedo to the southeast of the project are the regional
commercial and business centers. In the area, there are four villages
ranging in population from 1,000 to 2,000 and 6 others with less than
1,000 inhabitants. The rest of the people live on farms scattered through-
out the project area.
3.09      About 9,000 families have agriculture as their main source of
income. Some 4,800 own land and use most of theír available labor on their
farms, while the remaining 4,200 are relatives of landholders or transient
workers who work on the medium- and large-scale farms. There is no precise



- 12 -
information on employment, but, given the large proportion of landless work-
ers, unemployment is a problem. Average farm incomes are estimated at US$243
(US$37 per capita) in farms up to 10 ha; US$703 per family (US$108 per capita)
in farms between 11 and 20 ha; US$1,514 per family (US$233 per capita) in
farms between 20 and 50 ha; and US$3,165 per family (US$486 per capita) in
farms between 50 and 100 ha. The average income of the landless is as low as,
or lower than, that of farmers with less than 10 ha. The poverty income level
of the rural population in Ecuador is US$183.
3.10      Health, basic education and the general standard of living of the
population are unsatisfactory. Gastro-intestinal infections, worm infections,
tetanus in mothers and newborns, measles, pneumonia and other respiratory
disorders are endemic. Most of the population suffer from protein calorie
malnutrition, especially children under five. Health services are in-
adequate, housing conditions are poor, and sanitary facilities are lacking.
Villages lack potable water. The reported illiteracy rate is 18%, but, in
fact, a large part of the population is functionally illiterate.
Agricultural Services
3.11      Agricultural Extension.  The project falls within the jurisdiction
of the MAG's ASAs El Carmen, Sto. Domingo and Quevedo, the former being
the most active and practically the only one involved in the project. These
agencies are inadequately staffed and equipped, lack funds to operate and are
very much enmeshed in administrative paperwork. Hence, work with farmers
is practically nil. MAG has a hog breeding station (para 4.08) for the region
on the Sto. Domingo-Chone road, but it lacks adequate financing. This has
resulted in deterioration of the physical facilities, insufficient feed and
medical supplies for the animals, and has prevented the replacement of breeding
stock. MAG also operates two forestry nurseries in Santo Domingo and Quevedo
which provide seedlings for plantations, for fencing, and for windbreaks. The
nurseries are well operated, but require additional equipment and facilities
to increase output.
3.12      Agricultural Credit.  Three of BNF's branch offices provide banking
services for the project area: Sto. Domingo, Quevedo and El Carmen. The
Sto. Domingo and Quevedo offices have operated in the region for a long time
while the El Carmen office, the most active in the project area, was estab-
lished only in 1978. The three branches, with a total staff of 153, including
27 agricultural professionals and technicians, made over 2,000 loans totalling
about S/ 500 million (US$20 million) in 1979, mainly for short- and medium-
term livestock development.
Social Services
3.13      Health services in the prcject area are provided through three
health posts, but their facilities are inadequate to cope with the health
problems of the population. The regionalized scheme of health services
is not in effect in the area, thus making access to other neighboring
services more difficult. There is no updated inventory on school facil-
ities, but it is estimated that there are approximately 100 schoolrooms and
120 teachers. Most of the schools were built by "improvement committees", with
the financial support of Government agencies such as IERAC. A number of these
schools are in poor condition and lack equipment and housing facilities for
the teachers.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Brief Description
Project Origin and Formulation
4.01      In 1975, a Bank rural development sector mission identified the
project as complementary to the proposed construction of the Puerto
Ila Chone highway, which had been included in a highways master plan of
Ecuador prepared under the Second Highways Project (Loan 379-EC and Credit
51-EC). The Fourth Highways Project (Loan 1231-EC) provided funding for the
feasibility studies for the road and for the rural development project.
Funds for the latter were channeled through the National Preinvestment Fund
(FONAPRE). After many delays, the studies were completed in October 1979 by
the consortium of consulting firms, ASTEC-PIDELTA.  Supervision was carried
out by a committee made up of MAG, the Planning Board (now Consejo Nacional
de Desarrollo, CONADE), and FONAPRE representatives. Bank missions visited
Ecuador to appraise the project in July and November 1980.
4.02      Originally, the project area was to be a belt, 20 to 30 km wide
and 70 km long, on both sides of the projected Puerto Ila Chone road. However,
construction of this road was limited to the Puerto Ila-Doblones Section (29
km). Thus, at appraisal, it was agreed with the Government to redefine the
project area by excluding most of the mountainous western part of the original
area west of Doblones and by adding flat to undulating land north and south
of the original boundaries to the eastern part. Concerning project concept,
the strategy to develop the area calls for an integrated approach to enhance
economic and social advancement. An integrated approach is justified since
the project would be concentrated in a small area where national programs
to improve production and social conditions are not fully operational.
Brief Description
4.03      The project aíms at improving the incomes and standards of living
of about 10,000 rural families by increasing agricultural production and
productivity and providing production support and basic social infrastructure
and services.
4.04      The proposed project would include:
(a) execution of an agricultural extension program;
(b) provision of long-term agricultural credit to finance on-
farm investments, home improvement and hygiene facilities,
and short-term credit for production working capital;
(c) implementation of a land ownership legalization program
to provide firm land titles for around 3,400 production
units;



- 14 -
(d) construction or improvement of about 215 km of feeder
roads and implementation of a road maintenance program,
includíng purchase of equipment;
(e) implementation of a primary medical care program, including
construction of medical facilities, training of medical
staff, encouragement of community participation and carrying
out of a nutritional subprogram;
(f) rehabilitation and construction of schoolrooms, living
quarters for teachers and water supply and hygiene facilities
for about 60 rural elementary schools; and
SEDRI would establish a Project Executing Unít responsible for implementation
of the project (para 5.01).
B. Detailed Features
Agriculture Extension Program
4.05      The proposed project would support agricultural development of the
area by promoting adequate soil use, expanding production and increasing pro-
ductivity, largely on existing cropped areas and pasture lands. The agricul-
ture extension program, which is essential to achieve these goals, would consist
of: (a) rehabilitation of coffee and cocoa plantations and other perennials,
and improvement of production and processing practices for these and annual
crops; (b) improvement of pasture lands, stocking rates and cattle management;
(c) support to and improvement of hog production among small-scale farmers
and rehabilitation of a swine breeding center; (d) promotion of soil conserva-
tion and forestation practices and expansion of a forestry nursery; and (e)
training of farmers and promotion of farmers' organizations. These would be
achieved mainly through the establishment and operation of an efficient
extension service (para 5.05) and through provision of agricultural credit
(para 5.08).
4.06      The extension program would introduce and disseminate agriculture
production techniques already developed by INIAP in the nearby and other
research stations in the country and therefore no special agriculture
research work would have to be undertaken under the project. Rehabilitation
of coffee, cacao, bananas and other perennials would include opening or
closing the canopy, pruning, spraying for disease and pest control, and
fertilizing and hand pollination (for cacao). Renovation would involve replac-
íng the very poor cacao and tree shrubs with high yielding clones or selected
seedlings available at the Pichilingue research station. Farmers would be
taught how to properly depulp and dry coffee beans, as well as how to properly
ferment and cure cacao beans on the farms. This would greatly improve the
product quality and facilitate marketing. Also for coffee as well as for
cacao, farmers would be advised to improve and construct drying and process-
ing facilities on the farm. For annual crops, the extension program would
introduce hígh yielding varíetíes of corn, rice and other annuais, along
with the use of fertilizers and disease and insect control practices.



- 15 -
4.07      With respect to cattle, the extension program would seek to replace
extensive breeding for more intensive dual purpose--meat and milk--operations.
Pasture lands would be improved by constructing fences, corrals, mangas and other
farm structures designed to facilitate livestock management. Predominant guinea
grass (panicum maximum) is well adapted to the area and therefore would be
maintained, but trials would be carried out to test the adaptability of other
grasses. Herd improvement would be accomplished by encouraging farmers to
replace part of their animals with pregnant Brown Swiss and Holstein heifers.
Management practices would mainly include rotation grazing, use of mineral
supplements and parasíte and disease control.
4.08      The extension program would also support ongoing fattening opera-
tions, mainly among small-scale farmers with less than 10 ha. Based upon
INIAP experience, the farmers would be induced to change from uncontrolled
rearing practices to confined semi-intensive fattening operations. Hogs
would be mainly fed wíth locally produced plantain and banana residues,
supplemented with high protein and mineral feeds. To improve health and
management practices, financing would be available for construction of simple
fattening facilities with inexpensive local materials, establishment of
improved pasture areas, and purchase of piglets and supplementary feed
and medicines. To ensure adequate provision of piglets, the project
would provide for the rehabilitation of existing facilities and acquisi-
tion of breeding stock for the Santo Domingo MAG swine breeding center
(para 3.11).
4.09      Regarding soil conservation and forestry, the project would, in view
of the limited experience in this area, test the responsiveness of farmers to
reforestation and soil conservation practices and the adaptability of fast-
growing exotic species. Foresters working in the extension service would
identify the steepest lands and would encourage farmers to keep them in
natural forest or to replant them with tree crop and forest species.
It is expected that some 1,200 ha would be planted during the five-year
project implementation period in small plots of about one ha or in windbreaks;
such plantings would be considered within the individual farm development
plans. Long-term credit would be available to finance seedlings and other
inputs, with the farmers financing the labor for planting and maintenance.
The existing MAG forestry nursery at Santo Domingo de los Colorados (para
3.11), with only small infrastructure improvements and additional equipment
which would be provided under the project, would produce the seedlings needed
for the program.
4.10      In addition to the agricultural practices, the extension program
would include training and organization of farmers. Through seminars and
courses, farmers would be given instruction on community development, farm
management, record keeping and other relevant subjects. Existing informal
organizations of farmers would be strengthened and encouraged to play a
more active role in decision-making and marketing and processing of agri-
cultural produce. To this end, the project would provide for the organiza-
tion and construction of three marketing centers to be operated by the
farmers wíth assistance of the extension service. Also, the extension agents
would assist farm women to organize and obtain financing for income generating
activities such as honey and cheese production.



- 16 -
4.11      Annex 1, Tables 3(a) through 3(f) present cost estimates and schedule
of investments for the operation of the extension service, the rehabílitation
of the swine breeding center and the forestry nursery. Details are presented
in working papers 1 and 2 available in project files.
Land Ownership Legalization and Titling
4.12      Using existing information concerning the original distribution of
land, IERAC started a field survey to determine the status of land tenure
in the project area in January 1980 and it is, concurrently, implementing a
two-fold legalízation process for land ownership. First, owners of farms
which have been neither subdivided nor transferred, but are wíthout clear
title, would be encouraged and helped to complete procedures to obtain their
title. Second, a topographical survey would be carried out on farms that had
been subdivided and/or transferred, and, when legally possible, new titles or
legal documents to authenticate such sales would be granted. The field work,
which would include a land title survey over the whole project area and
topographical surveys over some 100,000 ha of subdivided farms, would be
relatively simple. However, the administrative and legal processes may be
lengthy, each taking somewhere between six months and two years to complete.
Taking this into account, IERAC's program proposes, between 1981 and 1984, to
carry out 2,110 "legalization of land" transactions (280 in 1981, 500 in 1982,
770 in 1983, and 560 in 1984), and would grant about 1,290 new land titles
(50 in 1981, 400 in 1982, 520 in 1983 and 320 in 1984). During negotiations
progress in this land titling program was reviewed and found satisfactory,
and agreement was reached on the aforementioned targets. Details of the land
ownership legalization and titling program, cost estimates and schedule of
investments are presented in Annex 1, Tables 4(a), 4(b) and 4(c).
Feeder Roads
4.13      Civil Works.  The project would provide for the completion of an
internal feeder roads network, part of which is being upgraded (49.0 km)
under the Fifth Highways Project (para 3.01). The complementary program pro-
posed under the project considers construction of a 40-m span bridge,improve-
ment of 27 km of gravel roads, upgrading 140 km of dirt roads to all-weather
gravel roads and construction of 48 km of new roads, for a total of 215 km. The
overall feeder roads network, which, at completion of the project, would be 369 km,
has been designed to provide permanent access to production areas, considering
the difficult topographical conditions and high raínfall of the zone. Improve-
ment and upgrading works would consist of meeting the minimum requirements for
permanent access, including road widening and graveling, and the repair or
construction of drains, culverts and bridges. The roads would be built or up-
graded to MOP's design standards for Classes 4 (4 m road width) and 5 (6 m road
width), which were developed under the Fifth Highways Project and have been
accepted by the Bank. Designs for about 114 km of the proposed roads have
been completed and found either satisfactory or are under review by the Bank;
designs of the remaining 101 km would be carried out under the project by
consultants acceptable to the Bank. Road construction would be carried out by
contractors and supervised by MOP staff, which is qualified for the job. Also,



- 17 -
included in the project but not financed under the loan would be a road crossing
over the Oro River to provide access to the western part of the area from the
north. During negotiations, assurances were obtained in this respect. Informa-
tion on design criteria, costs and schedule of investments on the feeder roads
program is presented in Annex 1, Tables 5(a) through 5(d). Further detailes
are presented in working paper 3, available in project files.
4.14      Road Maintenance.  Under the project, the capability of MOP's
Division II would be increased to allow it to maintain 340 km of feeder roads
in the project area instead of the present 100 km. To this end funds would be
provided for purchase of maintenance equipment, a tentative list of which is
presented in Annex 1, Table 5(e). The Bank is currently supporting Government
efforts to transfer responsibility for construction and maintenance of feeder
roads to local governments, but, since the project falls within the jurisdiction
of four provinces which have border conflicts MOP would take resposibility for
feeder roads maintenance in the project area.
Medical Care Services
4.15      On a pilot basis, the project would support MSP's efforts to establish
in the area a regional health service in line with the national health regionali-
zation system (para 2.15). Emphasis would be on increasing and improving
primary health care services through training and deployment of rural health
promoters and active participation of the community, mainly women, in primary
health and nutritional education. Two health subcenters and six health posts
would be built, and these as well as an existing hospital and two health
subcenters would be equipped; on-the-job and external training courses would
be given to medical and paramedical staff and administration and management of
the service would be strengthened. Besides health care, the project would
provide for the implementation of a survey on prevailing attitudes on utiliza-
tion of local foods, which would be the basis for a nutrítion program, also to
be implemented under the project. Cost estimates and investment schedules for
this component are presented in Annex 1, Tables 6(a) and 6(b) and 6(c). Further
details are presented in working paper 4, available in project files. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that MSP would: (i) appoint an Area chief
who, reporting to MSP's Rural Development Department, would supervise implementa-
tion of this program and (ii) provide additional staff consisting of at least
4 physicians, 10 auxiliary nurses, 4 sanitarians and 12 health promoters.
Sanitation
4.16      Sanitary conditions of the population would be improved by construct-
ing water supply systems and sewage units for villages and for the scattered
rural households; 10 water supply systems and household connections fed mainly
by deep wells would be built in villages with more than 500 people. Also,
some 200 shallow wells equipped with manual pumps would be built in small
population centers, each well serving an average of 10 families. The systems
would be desígned and constructed in accordance with IEOS standards, which
are acceptable. Beneficiaries would be required to provide in kind, labor or
cash, at least 20% of the cost of the water systems. Operation of the systems



- 18 -
would be the responsibility of the beneficiaries, who, before starting construction,
would establish an administrative committee and would commit themselves to pay for
all operation and maintenance costs. Assurances on these matters were obtained at
negotiations. The project would also provide for the construction of about 1,000
household sewage units. In accordance with already established practice, IEOS
would promote construction, provide standard designs and assist the beneficiaries
in constructing these units. Financing of equipment and materials would be
included in the on-farm development plans and financed by BNF under the long-
term agricultural credit program; the farmers would provide hand labor for
construction. Cost estimates and schedule of investments for the water supply
and sewage program are presented in Annex 1, Table 6(b).
School Construction
4.17      MEC would carry out through DINACE a program for rehabilitation and
construction and furnishings of schoolrooms, housing quarters for teachers
and hygiene facilities; emphasis would be given to improving facilities and
services and increasing staff in existing schools, rather than increasing the
number of schools; designs would be in accordance with DINACE standards, making
the highest possible use of local materials. At the time of appraisal, there
was no concrete proposal for this program; thus, based upon information on
the feasibility study and mission's estimates, it is proposed that about 60
schools would benefit from the program, with an average investment of S/ 900,000
(US$36,000) per school. A condition for disbursements under this program
would be that DINACE had prepared a school rehabilitation and staffing program
acceptable to the Bank.
C. Project Costs
4.18   Total project costs amount to US$57.1 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$19.0 million, or 33%. Base cost, calculated at
July 1980 príces, is estimated at US$36.3 million, physical contingencies
at US$4.3 million, and price contingencies at US$16.4 million. Cost of
feeder roads and other civil works are based upon consultants' and parti-
cipating agencies' estimates for similar works. Maintenance cost for feeder
roads is based on unit prices developed under the ongoing technical assistance
program included in the Fourth Highways Project. Costs of road maintenance
equipment, vehicles and other imported goods are estimated CIF Ecuadoran
port. Average fees for consultants are estimated at US$10,000 per man-month,
including salaries and travel and living expenses. Project costs include identi-
fiable taxes, estimated at US$0.6 million, but exclude import duties. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 15% for all civil works and 10% for equipment,
salaries and operating costs. Price contingencies for both local and foreign
components were estimated at 12.5% for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5%
for 1983 through 1985 and 6.0% for 1986 and onwards. Total project costs and
schedule of investments are presented in Annex 1, Tables 8 and 9, and summarized
below:



- 19 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
% of
Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Exchange  Cost
--------SI. 000 ------ -    --------US$ 000-------- 
Extension Service   98,311    33,842  132,152   3,934    1,354    5,286            21      14.6
Farm Development   228,576    97,961  326,537   9,144    3,917   13,061            30      35.9
(Credit)
Land Ownership       22,467      4,388   26,855      899       175    1,074        16       2.9
Legalization
Feeder Roads        156,750    12,750  278,500   6,270    4,870   11,140           44      30.7
Medical Care         32,721      8,884   41,605   1,309        355    1,664        21       4.6
Sanitation Works    16,770    14,630   31,400        671       585    1,256        47       3.5
School Construction 32,400    21,600   54,000   1,296          864    2,160        40       6.0
Executing Unit       15,249      1,440   16,689      610        57       667        9       1.8
Total Base Cost    603,245   304,495  907,740  24,130   12,179   36,309            34    100.0
Physical
Contingencies        72,940    35,712  108,653   2,918    1,429    4,346           33      12.0
Price                                             11,042   5,392    16,434         33      45.3
Contingencies                                                                      -
Total Cost                                        38,089  19,000    57,089         33    157.2
February 5, 1981



- 20 -
D. Financing
4.19      The Bank loan of US$20.0 million or 35% of total project cost
covers US$19.0 million foreign exchange plus US$1.0 million local costs;
financing of local costs is justified on project grounds, because of the low
foreign exchange. The Government, through regular budgetary allocations to
the FONADRI; would finance US$33.8 million or 59% of total project costs, and the
beneficiaries would finance US$3.3 million or about 6%. The loan would be made
to the Government of Ecuador for 17 years, including four years of grace. The
proposed financing plan is detailed in Annex 1, Table 10 and summarized below.
SUMMARY OF PROJECT FINANCING
Government    Beneficiaries  World Bank
US$'000   %    US$'000   %   US$'000  %    Total
Extension Service               3.905    74       -       -    1.381   26   5.286
On-Farm Investments             3.804    37    1.827    18   4.692   45  10.323
Working Capital                 2.738   100       -       -      -      -    2.738
Land Ownership Legalization       914    85       -       -      160   15   1.074
Feeder Roads                    6.518    59       -       -    4.622   41  11.140
Medical Care                    1.273    76       -       -       391   24   1.664
Sanitation Works                  562    45       234    19      459   36   1.256
School Construction             1.177    55       -       -      983   45   2,160
Executing Unit                    627    94       -       -       40    6      667
Total Base Cost                21.519    59    2.061    6   12,730   35  36.309
Physical Contingencies          2.547    59       245    6    1.554   35   4.346
Price Contingencies             9.723    59       994    6    5.716   35  16.434
Total Cost                 33.789    59    3.300    6   20.000   35  57.089



- 21 -
E. Procurement
4.20      Civil works amount to US$13.3 million, comprising feeder roads
(US$8.6 million), buildings for extension service, swine breeding center and
forestry nursery (US$0.9 million), health subcenters and posts (US$0.3 million),
water and sewerage systems (US$1.3 million) and schools (US$2.2 million).
Because of their relatively low cost and scattered location, contracts are
expected to be of low size and unlikely to be attractive to foreign contractors;
local contractors' building capacity, moreover, is adequate for the needs of
the project. However, to encourage competition and to facilitate Bank super-
vision, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the following
procedures would be followed: (a) contracts for construction of feeder roads
would be awarded following LCB procedures currently being applied in the
ongoing Sixth Highways Project; the roads would be grouped in lots of about
50 km, with an estimated cost of not less than US$1.7 million each, considering
geographical location and availability of engineering designs; (b) for works
other than feeder roads, contracts costing in excess of US$150,000 equivalent
would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, and would be
reviewed by the Bank before award; and other works costing less than US$150,000
equivalent up to an aggregated value of US$2.5 million could be carried out by
force account or contracts awarded following local procedures and in accordance
with annual construction and procurement plans satisfactory to the Bank.
4.21      Goods purchased under the project would amount to US$1.52 million
and comprise vehicles (US$440,000); topographical, medical, and office quipment
(US$500,000) and road maintenance equipment (US$580,000). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that procurement procedures would be as follows:
(a) all operation and maintenance equipment and other goods costing US$150,000
equivalent or more would be purchased following ICB procedures; (b) goods
costing US$150,000 or less but more than 50,000 and in the aggregate not more
than US$800,000, may be procured in accordance with local procurement pro-
cedures, provided that no less than three quotatives are obtained; and (c) goods
costing US$50,000 or less, and in the aggregated not more than US$200,000, may
be purchased through negotiated contracts, from established and reliable suppliers.



- 22 -
F. Disbursements
Amount of
Disbursements
(Us$ '000)
4.22      The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
Category I        45% of total expenditures for engineering and
construction of civil works and buildings for:
(a) operation of the project unit and extension
service, swine breeding center and forestry
nursery; (b) feeder roads; (c) health subcenters
and posts; (d) water supply systems; and
(e) schools.
(i) under contracts awarded through
competitive bidding                          7,075
(ii) under force account or negotiated
contracts                                    1,125
Category II       100% of foreign exchange, or 80% local currency
expenditures, for purchase of: (a) vehicles and
equipment for the extension service, swine
breeding center, forestry nursery, land owner-
ship legalization program, maintenance of
feeder roads, and health subcenters and posts;
and (b) materials for the agricultural extension
and medical care training programs, and the
nutrition program.                                      1,950
Category III      100% of foreign exchange or 45% of local currency
expenditures for: (a) training courses for project
staff and farmers under the agricultural extension
and medical care programs; and (b) consultants'
fees, travel and living allowances.                       650
Category IV       55% of medium- and long-term subloans disbursed
by BNF to finance on-farm investments, household
improvements and materials for hygiene units.           7,000
Category V        Unallocated                                             2,200
4.23      Disbursements would be made against normal documentation except for
works carried out by force account, medium- and long-term subloans made by BNF
and local training courses for project staff and beneficiaries, which would
be made against statements of expenditures (SOE). Disbursement applications
based on SOEs would be signed by an appropriate representative of the executing
agencies concerned and be accompanied by an annex showing a breakdown of
payments for: (a) construction contracts and services; (b) supply of construc-
tion materials and other goods; and (c) salaries of trainers, materials,
travel expenses and living allowances in connection with training courses.
Documents showing evidence of payment should not be submitted to the Bank but
would be maintained by the executing agencies or the project unit for further
review by the Bank. SOEs would be audited as indicated in paragraph 4.25.



- 23 -
4.24      The loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of six years
according to the following schedule of disbursements:
World Bank                                      Disbursement at the
Fiscal Year             Period Ending            end of the period
1983               December 31, 1982               1,600
June 30, 1983                   3,400
1984               December 31, 1983               5,500
June 30, 1984                   7,700
1985               December 31, 1984               9,400
June 30, 1985                  11,400
1986               December 31, 1985              13,300
June 30, 1986                  15,100
1987               December 31, 1986              16,300
June 30, 1987                  17,300
1988               December 31, 1987              18,200
June 30, 1988                  19,000
G. Accounts and Audit
4.25      Separate project accounts, with appropriate subsidiary accounts for
each project component, would be maintained by the Executing Unit and each
participating agency, respectively. These accounts, maíntained according to
sound accounting principles consistently applied, would accurately reflect
receipts and expenditures undertaken in relation to the project and clearly
identify the goods and services procured and works performed. These accounts
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
said audit reports, together with certified copies of the audited accounts
and auditor's observations thereon, would be submitted to the Bank within
five months of close of the fiscal year. Each audit report would include,
as applicable, a separate opinion as to whether the procedures relating to the
use of Statements of Expenditures (para 4.23) were complied with. Assurances on
these accounting and auditing procedures were obtained during negotiations.
V. ORGANIZATION MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management - Executing Unit
5.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest
with SEDRI, which would enter into implementation agreements for each com-
ponent with the related ministries and Government agencies (participating
agencies). SEDRI would establish an Executing Unit (UE) responsible for the



- 24 -
project which would be headed by a Project Director, a senior professional
recruited wíth qualifications and under terms of employment acceptable to the
Bank and who would report directly to the Secretary of SEDRI. A group of tech-
nical staff seconded to the project one by each of the participating agencies
would assist the director in the day-to-day work, and would serve as a link
between the project and the participating agencies. In addition, the UE
would have an assistant director and two offices: Planning and Monitoring
(para 5.11) and Administration. Investments and operating costs of the UE
are presented in Annex 1, Table 7. Also, an internationally recruited
consultant would assist the Project Director in organizing and starting the
project for about one year at the beginning of the implementation period.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that not later than January 31,
1982 the UE would be established and that in addition to the Project Director,
it would be staffed with at least two planning and evaluation technicians and
three administrative support personnel. Technical staff from the participating
agencies would be appointed when the respective implementation agreements are
signed (para 5.03). The Project Director has been appointed and participated
in negotiations.
Implementation
5.02      The project would be implemented over a period of six years (see
Chart 22211). The several project components would be executed by the following
agencies: (a) MAG, with the collaboration of INIAP would be responsible for
the agricultural extension service and organization of farmers (para 5.05),
the swine breeding and the forestry program; (b) farmers' organizations
assísted by the extension service would operate marketing centers; construc-
tion of each of these centers would start only when the farmers' organization
concerned has demonstrated its willingness and capability to operate the
center; (c) BNF, in collaboration with MAG, would provide agricultural
credit (para 5.08); (d) IERAC would carry out the land ownership legalization
and land titling program (para 4.12); (e) MOP would be responsible for con-
struction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the feeder road network (paras
4.13 and 4.14); (f) MSP, through its National Rural Development Department,
would be responsible for the planning and operation of the health care program
(para 4.15); (g) IEOS would construct health subcenters and posts and water
supply facilities and would assist farmers in the construction of sewer units
(paras 4.15 and 4.16); and (h) DINACE would plan and implement the school
program (para 4.17).
Implementation Agreements
5.03      To ensure participation, SEDRI would, under its charter, enter into
implementation agreements with each of the above-mentioned agencies; the
agreements would inter alia spell out: (a) scope cost and schedule of
investments of the relevant project component; (b) financial arrangements,
defining which parts of the investment and of project costs would be financed
by SEDRI and which by the agency with its own resources; (c) procedures for
transferring of local and Bank funds to the agency; and (d) responsibilities
of the agency with regard to participation in the executing unit (para 5.01),
preparation of annual investment plans, provision of required staff and services,
procurement, reporting, accounts and auditing.  The signing of each agreement
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement under the relevant project component.  Assurances on this respect
were obtained during negotiations.



- 25 -
Project Funding
5.04      Project funds would be channeled through FONADRI (para 2.01), in
whích the Government would establish a special project account. To ensure
timely availability of resources, the Government would transfer an amount
of US$500,000 equivalent to establish a revolving fund in the special
project account. The funds would be at the disposition of the Project
Director, who, in accordance with implementation plans, would transfer
funds as required by the participating agencies. As the revolving fund
is expended, it would be replenished with Government counterpart funds in
accordance with budgetary allocations for the project. SEDRI would directly
request loan disbursements from the Bank. Assurances on this matter were
obtained during negotiations. Establishment and Government first funding of
the project special account would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Operation of the Agricultural Extension Service
5.05      Organization.  Overall responsibility of the agricultural extension
service would rest with a Specialized Services Unit (USE) that MAG would
establish in the Executing Unit; the USE would, within the regulations of MAG,
enjoy technical, financial and administrative autonomy, have its own budget,
and report directly to the project director. It would be headed by a senior
agriculturalist and staffed by five subject matter specialists in livestock,
coffee, cacao, forestry, marketing and organization of farmers and supporting
staff. It would also be assisted by two INIAP specialists in tree crops and
livestock and by external consultants (para 5.07). At the field level, the
extension service would operate through three agricultural centers located at La
Bramadora, El Paraiso and Sta. Maria; each center would be headed by a general
agriculturalíst reporting to the USE chief and would be staffed by an
agronomist or livestock expert and extension agents (Annex 1, Table 3(e)).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that not later than January 31,
1982, the USE would be established and staffed with at least its chief, four
of the five subject matter specialists, the three area chiefs and 25 extension
agents. For the operation of the USE and of the agricultural centers, the
project would provide for the construction of about 1,990 m2 of buildings,
purchase of vehicles and equipment, and contracting of consultants. With this
organization, the extension service would primarily aim at assisting the 4,600
medium- and small-scale farmers with production units smaller than 100 ha;
it is expected that the service would reach about 70% of the farmers (3,200)
during the implementation period and almost all of the remaining ones at
full development. The extension staff would implement the extension program
by: (a) working directly with individual farmers and groups of farmers; (b)
holding demonstrations at selected sites in the project area and at the nearby
research stations; and (c) conducting training courses for farmers in selected
subjects related to organization, farm management and other relevant subjects.
In addition to disseminating technology, the extension service, in cooperation
with BNF, would assist farmers in the preparation of farm development plans and
corresponding credit applications (para 5.10).
5.06      Training.  Training courses for extension agents, credit supervisors
and inspectors and farmers would be carried out by INIAP. The courses would
take place mainly in the Pichilingue Research Station under curricula prepared
by INIAP and USE staff and consultants; lecturers would be INIAP staff and
subject matter specialists, externally recruited and financed by the project;
extension staff would also be sent abroad to universitíes and other institu-
tions to receive on-the-job and academic training on selected subjects.



- 26 -
5.07      Consultants.  SEDRI would employ individual internationally
recruited consultants with qualifications and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank to assist the UE and USE in: (a) establishing and
organizing the Executing Unit and assisting the project director during
the first year of project implementation (12 man-months); (b) establish-
ing and designing, organizing and periodically following up the extension
service (12 man-months); (c) developing technological packages, conducting
training courses for extension staff and farmers and periodically following
up implementation in the field of coffee production and processing (six
man-months) and cacao production and processing (six man-months); and
(d) developing a marketing mechanism for agriculture inputs and produce,
including the technical, organizational and financial design, and putting
the three agricultural marketing centers into operation (12 man-months).
During negotiations assurances were obtained to this effect and that the
consultants referred to in (a) and (b) would be employed no later than
June 30, 1982.
Lending Terms and Conditions for Agricultural Credit
5.08      Agricultural credit would be made available through BNF to finance
investments and production. Medium- to long-term credit would fínance reha-
bilitation and renovation of cacao, coffee, banana and tree crops; pasture
development; forestry seedlings; breeding cattle; construction of on-farm
facilities for livestock and processing of cacao and coffee beans; and
house improvement and materials for household hygiene facilities. Short-
term credit would finance farm operation and maintenance costs, production
of annual crops and pig fattening operations. It is expected that about
2,700 farmers with land holdings up to 100 ha would obtain credit during
the project implementation periód. Farm investments, including price
contingencies, are estimated at US$11.36 million, of which US$9.34 million
or 82.3% would be covered by medium- and long-term credit, and the remaining
portion by the beneficiaries.  Short-term production credit requirements are
estimated at US$3.0 million.
5.09      Lending terms and grace periods would be as set forth in the tech-
nical and financial farm plans and are expected to vary between 3 and 12 years,
including grace periods of 1 to 3 years. Sub-loans to small-scale farmers
would finance up to 90% of investment costs, with the remaining contributed by
the small farmer in cash or kind. Small-scale farmers are those with total
net assets of less than SI 750,000 (US$30,000), including land but excluding
houses, and whose principal source of income is the farm for which the sub-loan
is made. Sub-loans for other beneficiaries (credito bancario, para 2.11)
would finance up to 80% toward investment costs. Not less than 60% of the
total amount of subloans would go to small-scale farmers. The minimum annual
interest rates (including charged commissions allowed by the Monetary Board
regulations) would be 12% for small-scale farmers and 15% for other benefi-
ciaries. Inflation between 1977 and 1979 averaged 11% and rose to 13% in
1980. For 1981 inflation could be as high as 20% because of drastic increase
in the price of gasoline, but it is expected to be around 15% from 1982 onwards.
Thus, the real interest rate for small farmers would be slightly negative, while
for others it would be about zero. The country's maximum legal interest rate for
all sectors is currently 12%, with commissions of 2% to 4% allowed for medium- and
long-term loans. Regular Government funded loans for small-scale farmers carry
a 9% interest. Bank financed projects (Agriculture Credit and Tungurahua Rural
Development), provide for 11% interest rate for subloans to small farmers and



27 - 
- 2O -í 
14% for others. Thus, the interest rates proposed represent a further step
in closing the gap between general interest rates and the somewhat greater
inflation most recentlv experienced by Ecuador. Furthermore, the Government
in consultation with the Bank, would review not later than twelve months after
the date of loan signature and from time to time thereafter interests rates and
other charges on subloans, and if necessary revise them in líne with relevant
changes in the rate of inflation. Bank loan and local counterpart funds for
medium- and long-term credit would be made available to BNF by the Government
on the same repayment terms as the Bank loan; however, Bank funds would be
made available in Sucres and would bear interest at the same rate as the Bank
loan, while counterpart funds would be interest-free. The resulting blend of
funds would permit BNF to relend at a marging of at least 6%, which is
adequate to cover administrative costs and financial risks. BNF would finance
short-term credit with its own resources and through rediscounts in the Central
Bank. The Government and BNF would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement making
Bank and local counterpart funds for agricultural credit available to BNF and
spelling out the aforementioned lending terms and conditions of subloans.
Signature of this Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.10      BNF would administer the credit program through its branch offíces
in El Carmen, Santo Domingo and Quevedo, which would be strengthened with
additional staff, transportation and other facilities. To expedite sub-
loans, credit inspectors would be based in the agriculture centers (para
5.05), from where they would, in cooperation with extension staff, assist
the farmers in preparing farm investment plans and credit applications, and
receive them for presentation to the branch offices. BNF would employ
its regular procedures to evaluate prospective sub-borrowers' creditworthi-
ness and to secure subloans. Jointly with the extension staff, BNF's credit
supervisors and inspectors would attend training courses in preparation for
farm development plans and credit operations (para 5.06). For these courses,
advantage would be taken of the experience and material developed by the
Executing Unit of the Agriculture Credit Project, Loan 1459-EC. Assurances on
these matters were obtained at negotiations. In addition, a condition of
disbursement under this component would be that BNF had established a set of
guidelines, acceptable to the Bank, for preparing farm development plans and
credit applications in coordination with the extension service.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11      The UE would monitor and evaluate project progress and impact
through its Office of Planning and Monitoring (OPM). With Bank and consultants'
assistance and in collaboration with the participating agencies, OPM would
establish and manage an information system for monitoring physical progress of
project components, evaluating the impact of these components and identifying
problems in implementation. Project monitoring would give particular attention
to determining: (a) the performance and effectiveness of the extension service
in reaching farmers and bringíng about increases in agricultural production
and productivity; (b) the impact of the agricultural credit program on bringing
about farm improvements and increasing production; (c) the effectiveness of
IERAC in carrying out field work and in processing legal documents in the land



- 28 -
titling program; (d) the impact of the feeder road network on ímprovíng access
of agricultural products to markets; (e) the impact of medical care, nutrition,
sanitation and education programs on improving the standard of living of the
project beneficiaries; and (f) the impact of the project on women. SEDRI
would submit to the Bank a proposal for operation of the monitoring system no
later than June 30, 1982.
5.12      OPM would prepare semi-annual project progress reports which
would: (a) present in a descriptive and tabular manner the advance of the
different project components; (b) pointing out problems detected in the
monitoring process and their proposed solution; and (c) present the status
of project investments and financíng. Also, at the end of the investment
period, OPM would prepare a project completion report according to Bank
guidelines and submit it to the Government and the Bank within six months of
the loan closing date. To undertake these tasks, OPM would be staffed with
at least two professionals and support staff with relevant experience in the
subject. Assurances on these matters were obtained at negotiations.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FARM BENEFITS
Land Use and Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
6.01      Land use and cropping patterns were analyzed on the basis of four
farm development models representative of farm size distribution in the area.
No drastie changes in land use or in cropping patterns are expected as a result
of the project. The total area under agriculture in the 4,600 target farms
would remain about constant at around 88,000 ha: the area under annual crops,
mainly corn, beans, peanuts, rice and yucca, would almost double from some
4,400 ha to 8,100 ha; the area under perennial crops would remain almost the
same at around 37,800; but the area in pasture would decrease from 46,800 ha
to 41,700 ha. At present project yields are low, even though the soils and
climate are favorable for crops and pasture as well as for livestock (paras 3.02
and 3.03). At appraisal it was determined that low yields and depressed agri-
cultural productivity were due mainly to lack of: (a) use of improved varieties
and breeds of livestock; (b) know-how (planting, cultivating, harvesting, pro-
cessing, marketing and livestock management); (c) disease and insect control,
and (d) retention of soil fertility. With the thrust of the extension service
being directed toward removal of these factors (para 4.06), crop yields and
meat and milk production are expected to rise considerably by the sixth year
of the project. With rehabilitating and renovation, cacao and coffee yields
would both increase from an average 0.20 mt/ha (dry beans) to 0.60 mt/ha, and
banana yields from 5.5 to 13.7 mt/ha. Average yields of annual crops are
expected to go from 0.8 to 1.6 mt/ha for corn, 0.5 to 1.1 for beans, 0.8 to 1.4
for peanuts, 1.0 to 1.8 for rice and 3.8 to 7.3 for cassava.  Improved management
and adequate stocking would raise productivity of pasture lands and livestock;
average stocking rates would go from 0.75 to 1.05 au/ha; milk production would
increase from 2.5 to 3.0 liters per day per cow, with the lactation period
being extended from 80 to 150 days; the calving rate would increase to 64%
while holding the death rate at 3%. As a result of all the changes cited,
annual agricultural production in the project area would increase by 14,400 mt
of grains and food crops, 6,900 mt of cacao, 5,100 mt of coffee, 68,500 mt of
banana and plantain, 6.8 million liters of milk, 910 mt of beef, and 46 mt of



- 29 -
pork. The aggregated value of this incremental production would be about
US$25.9 million a year.   Farm models showing representative land use, pro-
duction costs, yields and production are in Annex 1, Tables 11 through 22,
and are summarized in the following table.
Cropping Patterns, Yielde, Production
Without Project              With ProJect
Crop Area Yield Production Crop Area Yield Production  Incremental Production
Activity               ha      mt/ha     mt         ha     mt/ha      mt       mt          Value
(S/'0O0) (US$00>
Annual Crops
Corn               1,468      0.8    1,174      2,678     1.6    4,284    3,110  12,903    516
Beans                713      0.5      357      1,298     1.1    1,428    1,071   8,883    355
Peanuts              755      0.8      604      1,379     1.4    1,93!    1,327  12,890    516
Rice                 755      1.0      755      1,379     1.8    2,482    1,727  10,315    413
Casava               754      3.8    2,868      1,379     7.3   10,067    7,199  13,116    525
4,445                       8,113                              58,107  2,325
Perennial Crops
Cacao             16,855      0.2    3,371    17,146      0,6   10,288    6,917  300,978  12,039
Coffee            11,643      0.2    2,328    12,341      0.6    7,404    5,076  164,381  6,575
Barnana and Othera   8,360    5.5   45,978      8,360    13.7 .114,528   68,550  38,182  1,527
36,857                      37,847                             503,541  20,141
Pastures            46,848                       41,755
Livestock
Milk (lt '000)                        2,472                       9,271    6,798  33,994  1,360
Meat (m/torna beef) 1/                1,522                       2,433       910  50,072  2,003
Meat (m/tons pork) T/                  n.a.              .          n.a.       46   1,800      72
85-,86S  ~Z3
Total              88,150                      87,715                             647,514 25,901
1/ Carcaes.
Prices
6.02        Prices for inputs and farmgate prices for crop and livestock
products to be produced under the project are those prevailing in the area
in July 1980. The Government fixes prices for rice, corn, milk and meat, but
cannot effectively enforce them. Thus, in practice, prices are determined by
market conditions. Economic prices for traded commodities (cacao, coffee,
banana and corn) were calculated according to Bank projections and adjusted
for handling, processing and transportation costs to reach average farm gate
prices; for other products, economic prices are assumed to be the prevailing
market prices. Farmgate and economic prices are shown in Annex 1, Table 23.



- 30 -
Marketing
6.03      It is expected that all agricultural produce would be marketed
locally or in the nearby cities of Santo Domingo de los Colorados and Quevedo,
except for food crops which would be marketed mainly in the project area.
In terms of worldwide availabilities, incremental production of cacao,
coffee and banana would not be significant and would not affect the inter-
national market. For these crops there is also a relatively well organized
marketing system in the area; middlemen buy the product on the farms, usually
imposing their own prices and conditions. However, the establishment of
farmers' operated marketing and processing centers (para 4.10) is expected
to improve quality of the produce and be a favorable factor in the setting
of prices; furthermore, construction of feeder roads would substantially
increase farmers' access to markets and thereby improve their bargaining
position. Increasing demand of beef and pork from the urban centers would
ensure safe marketing of livestock. The farmers would sell their cattle
and pigs at the Santo Domingo de los Colorados Livestock Public Market
(Feria de Ganado), which serves the region and is one of the most important
livestock exchange centers in the country.
Farmer Benefits
6.04     At full development, execution of the agriculture development program
would have benefitted some 4,600 families with farms smaller than 100 ha. Of
these 2,700 are expected to receive credit during the project implementation
period. Farmers' average incomes have been analyzed with four farm models of
5 ha - for farms up to 10 ha; 15 ha - for farms between 11 and 20 ha; 30 ha -
for farms between 21 and 50 ha; and 60 ha - for farms between 21 and 100 ha.
Incomes are expected to increase over a period of 15 years between three and
six times, while the financial rate of return would range from 26% to 32%. The
cash flow projections also show that there would not be a substantial reduction
of family disposable income during the investment period. Annex 1, Tables 24(a)
through 24(d) presents the financial annalysis of the farm models, according to
which, the beneficiaries' farm incomes would evolve as follows:
Family Income and Financial Rate of Return
(US Dollars)
Average Farm      Farms               Family Income                Increase    Financial
Size (ha)      No.       %   Without Project 1/ With Project 2/    %           Rate of Return
5         1,087    24           243             1,758            600          22
15           929    20           703             3,076            438          31
30         1,978    43         1,514             6,079            401          31
60           606    13         3,165            10,905            345          36
1/   Average number of persons per family:  6.5.
2/   At full development, by project year 15.



- 31 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      Execution of the project would bring about substantial improvements
in the income levels, and therefore in the living standards of the 4,600
small-scale and medium-scale farmers directly benefited by the project.
Implementation of the agriculture development program would also generate some
1.6 million incremental mandays of labor (Annex 1, Tables 25(a) through
25(e)), leading to full employment among farmers and providing additional jobs
for some 1,500 landless families, contributing to an easing of seasonal
unemployment.  In addition, construction of feeder roads, health facilities,
water supply systems and sewerage units would contribute substantiallly to the
improvement of living standards ín the project area.  Some 3,300 families
would have access to water supply in villages and in the rural areas; con-
struction of household sewage units would serve some 1,000 families.  Fur-
thermore, the project is an important step in institution building and a test
in interinstitutional cooperation and coordination, the success of which is
essential if the country is to pursue its rural development policy as recently
stated by the Government.
Economic Analysis
7.02     The economic rate of return of (ERR) the project has been estimated at
18% (Annex 1, Table 26) and was derived under the following assumptions: (a) the
evolution of cropped areas and livestock productivity as described in the
investment plans; (b) output prices for traded commodities were calculated
according to Bank projections for 1980 in constant prices and adjusted for
handling, processing and transportation costs to reach an average farmgate price;
for other products prevailing farmgate prices were used (Annex 1, Table 23);
production costs, except for unskilled labor were priced at local market
conditions on the grounds that they best reflect their respective opportunity
costs given their market structure and current Government policies; (c) the
opportunity cost of family labor was estimated at 80% of the equivalent market
wage for unskilled labor; unskilled hired work was estimated at 70% of the
market wage; (d) the period of analysis was 16 years; (e) border prices used
for all tradable and non-tradable commodities were based on a unit standard
conversion factor; and (f) calculations of the economic rate of return includes
costs of agricultural extension, feeder roads, swine center, forestry, project
unit, land titling, and physical contingencies. Components for which tangible
benefits are difficult to ascertain such as health, nutrition, sanitary services
and education have been excluded from the economic rate of return calculations.
7.03      The results of applying various sensitivity analyses to the project
benefits and costs are presented in Annex 1, Table 27. A 20% reduction in
benefits would reduce the ERR to 15%, while a 20% increase in investment
costs would lower it to 16%. The switching value test shows that either of
each incremental benefits or price of coffee or price of cacao should decrease
by 39%, 80% and 60% respectively or investment costs should increase by 51%,
to lower the ERR to the 12% opportunity cost of capital in Ecuador.



- 32 -
Project Risks
7.04      Implementation of the project does not present major technical risks.
Expected yields and agriculture output are within reasonable ranges and pro-
duction techniques are readily available to attain them. MOP has proven
experience in the construction of feeder roads and implementation of these
components should pose no special difficulties. Also, there should not be
any difficulty in the construction of the social infrastructure works. Main
project risks would be on the institutional and managerial side. The fact
that SEDRI has been established should, on the one hand, improve interagency
coordination and general project management; but, on the other hand, this
institution's lack of experience may create delays, particularly in the
initial stages of the project. A number of international donors, including
USAID and FAO, are providing technical assistance to SEDRI and it should
contribute to an effective establishment and operation of the new agency.
With regard to the participating agencies, previous Bank experience with MAG,
BNF and IERAC indicates that close assistance and supervision would be required
to assure timely execution of their respective project components: extension,
credit and land titling. Strengthening of their local offices and provision
of technical assistance under the project should help to improve the services
provided by these institutions.
Environmnental Impact
7.05     Project implementation would try to minimize adverse effects in the
environment.  In the preparation and implementation of farm development plans,
agriculture and forestry extension agents would give special attention to pre-
venting soil erosion and protecting catchment areas. Steep lands would be
maintained in forest or planted to tree crops and forest species only. Imple-
mentation of the land ownership legalization and credit programs would help
farmers to consolidate their settlement, thus preventing further subdivision of
land and contributing to slow down immigration. The extension agents would
see to it that increased use of fertilízers and pesticides was limited to
those with low toxicity and would stress safety in application and handling.
Construction of water supply systems and sewage units would improve sanitary
conditions, thereby helping to prevent diseases.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(a) Cause IERAC to achieve the landownership legalization and
land titling targets as specified in paragraph 4.12;
(b) Cause MOP to provide for the construction and financing with
its resources of a road corssing over the Oro River to provide
access to the western part of the project from the north
(para 4.13);



- 33 -
(c) Cause beneficiaries to pay in kind, labor, or cash, not less than
20% of the cost of Water Systems and ensure that before starting
construction of each system, the respective beneficiary community
has established a committee responsible for the administration of
the system and committed itself to pay for all operation and main-
tenance costs (para 4.16);
(d) Ensure that SEDRI and the implementing agencies follow the procure-
ment procedures as set up in paragraphs 4.20 and 4.21;
(e) Cause the Executing Unit and each participating agency to maintain
separate project accounts for the project and for each project
component, respectively, and cause such accounts to be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Said
audit reports, together with certified copies of the audited
accounts and the auditors' observation thereon, would be sub-
mitted to the Bank within five months of the closing of each
fiscal year and each audit report would include--as applicable--
a separate opinion as to whether the procedures and controls
related to the use of Statements of Expenditures were complied
with (para 4.25);
(f) Cause SEDRI to establish, staff and operate not later than
January 31, 1982 project Executing Unit (para 5.01) and to enter
into implementation agreements with each of the participating
agencies under the terms spelled out in paragraph 5.03;
(g) Establish in FONADRI a project account and to maintain in it a
revolving fund of not less than US$500,000 (para 5.04);
(h) Cause MAG to establish and fully staff in the Executing Unit a
USE, responsible for agricultural extension, no latter than
January 31, 1982 (para 5.05);
(i) Cause SEDRI to retain consultants under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank to assist the Executing Unit and the
extension service (para 5.07);
(j) Cause the Executing Unit to (i) consistently monitor and evaluate
project progress and its impact in the terms set up in paragraph 5.11;
(íi) prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports;
and (iii) prepare at the end of the investment period a project
completion report according to Bank guidelines and submit it to
the Government and the Bank within síx months of the loan closing
date (para 5.12).



- 34 -
8.02      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  For the education component:  preparation by DINACE of a school
rehabilitation and staffing program acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.17).
(b)  For each project component:  signature of the corresponding
implementation agreement between SEDRI and the participating
agency concerned (para 5.03);
(c)  For the credit component:  the issuance by BNF of a set of
guidelines acceptable to the Bank for preparing farm devel-
opment plans and credit applications in coordination with
the extension service (para 5.10); and
8.03      Additional conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) that the Government has established a special project
account and revolving fund within FODRI under the terms
spelled out in para 5.04.
(b) the Government and BNF have entered into a Subsidiary
Agreement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, making Bank and local counterpart funds for
Agricultural Credit available to BNF and spelling out
lending terms and conditions of subloans (para 5.09).
8.04      With the above assurances, the proposed project would constitute
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Ecuador for US$20.0
million equivalent for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace,
with interest at the rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.
April 13, 1981



ECUDQOR
VOLUME AND VALUE OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION BY COMMODITY
lNDICES OF TOTAL AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD PRODUCTION
AVERAGE 1961-65, ANNUAL 1969-1978
Average
COMMODITY           1961-65      1969     1970      1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      1978
- -         -1,000 METRIC TONS - - -                        - -            - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
WHIEAT                           61        70        66        60       50        44        54        51       46        20        19
RICE, PADDY                    179        241       190      181       195       236       241       321      300       217       188
CORN                           103        125       140      110       130       120      142       113        96       175       145
BARLEY                          61         69        76       69        62        57        56        55       57        40        32
BEANS, DRY                       24        30        35        38       30        32        28        26       31        30        30
POTATOES                        277       290       380       400      473       539       503       499      550       521       542
COTTON                            4         5         4         4                  6        12         9        8        10        10
COTTONSEED                        8         8         8         7        8        10        20        15       12        16        18
CASTOR BEANS                     22        16        20       17        20        20        21        16       12        15        17
BANANAS   (EXPORTABLE-TYPE  2,213       2,260    2,098    2,093    2,088    2,188    2,295    2,130    2,546    2,165    2,300
PRODUCTION)
COFFEE                           48        40        78        66       66        52        76        71       83        88        89
COCOA BEANS                     40         55        65        65       58        43        72        73       62        68        72
SUGAR, RAW(CENTRIFUGAL)        15        209       227      249       249       245       268       287      295       301       295
SUGAR, NONCENTRIFUGAL            35        4°        40        40       40        40        40        40       40        40        40
BEEF AND VEAL                    33        42        44        47       60        62        55        58       68        69        67v'
MUTTON AND LAMB                   3         7         7         8        7         7         8         8         9        9         9
PORK                             14        24        27        30       28        30        27        30       32        35        39
MILK                            376       475       492       510      529       549       544       580      590       615       692
AGGREGATES OF PRODUCTION   - - - - - - - - - MILLION DOLLARS AT CONSTANT PRICES - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -
CROPS                         237.4     254.0    271.7    264.9    266.4    265.4    298.2    289.9    316.7    296.1    301.1
LIVESTOCK                      41.3      55.5      58.3      61.9     66.3      69.o      65.6      70.0     72.3      76.6      83.8
TOTAL AGRICULTURE             278.7     309.5    330.0    326.8    332.7    334.4    363.8    359.5    389.0    372.7    384.2
TOTAL FOOD                    252.4     287.5    289.1    282.0    297.5    305.9    321.9    321.6    345.1    325.6    337.2
INDICES OF PRODUCTION                                     (1961-65 = 100)
CROPS                        100        107       114      112       112       112       126      122       133       125       127
TOTAL AGRICULTURE             100       111       118       117      119       120       131       129      140       134       138
TOTAL FOOD                    100       114       115       116      118       121       128       127      137       129       134
PER CAPITA AGRICULTURE        100        94        97        94       93        91        96        92       96        98        98
PER CAPITA FOOD               100        97        94        92       92        92        93        90       94        86        87
INDEX OF POPULATION
1961-65 POPULATION =
4,780,000                  100.0      118.0    121.5    125.1    128.7    132.4    136.4    140.0    145.0    149.2    153.3
Source:  USDA
(DX



ECUADOR
Value of Agricultural Exports and imports
1967 - 1977
Products                    1967       1968       1969        1970        1971        1972        1973       1974        1975        1976        1977         1978         1979
1. Agricultural Exports                                                  Current US$ '000  FOB
A. Crops                      132,828    168,464    121,315    159,420    153,181    209,486    178,770    312,102    252,530    341,905    397,409              514,028      523,430
Rice                             O           -          -           0           -           -           -           -           -      2,531       2,400           '24            7
Banana and Plantain        67,158      92,219      68,175      83,299      88,157    130,991      74,126    126,723    138,652    103,223    148,259          171,770      200,120
Cacao                      23,497      38,883      24,240      22,182      24,332     23,628      26,016    102,613       42,165      31,461      59.954       50,385       42,280
Coffee                     39,871      34,667      26,045      50,002      36,100     46,990      65,427      67,756      65,532    192,793    175,006        271.237      263,146
Oílseeds                       895         865      1,732       1,659       1,774       3,694       7,746       5,617      3,517       2,121          415            1            0
Fibers                          43          91        115         421         622         921       1,688       5,141           -      6,494        6,607       6,983       12,218
Other                        1,364      1,739       1,008       1,857       2,196       3,262       3,767      4,252       4,664       3,282       4,768       13,628        5,659
B. Forestry                     3,629       3,602      3,368       2,900       3,337       4,601       5,409       7,157       8,836       9,021       8,885      11,209       13,201
Balsa                        3,092      3,398       3,342       2,869       3,214       3,809       4,827      6,283       8,476       8,836       8,710       10,361       12,677         cn
Other                          537         204         26          31         123         792         582         874         360         185         175         848           524
C. Livestock                    1,429       1,034      1,391       2,702       1,581         307         178         116          39         152         372         359         1,320
D. Fisheries                    3,217       3,620      4,834       4,046       9,584      16,312      14,999      18,561      24,841      30,268      36,768      42,285       63,076
Tuna and Fish                1,519      1,401       2,053       2,274       5,100       2,365       5,063       5,556      9,825       9,140       10,386       9,047       15,437
Shrimp                       1,617      2,139       2,688       1,706       4,363      13,024       9,172     11,390      14,581      20,791      25,567       30,125       45,011
Lobster and Others              81          80         93          66         121         923         764       1,615        435          337         815       3,113        2,628
E. Processed Products         11,405      11,941      15.013      13,908      23,083      25,558      33,191     59,977      65,225      94,189    227,969       274,481      335,243
Sugar                       7,547       7,111      10,373       8,036      13,216     14,240      12,461      21.709      23,636      11,693      10,902        6,772       12,553
Molasses and others            271        323         245         685         601         290       1,591      2.041       1,463          977      1,984          990        3,446
Coffee                           1          2           3          15           0         592         739      1,074       1 ,009      1,473       3,628        3,805       13,012
Cocoa Products              1,547       2,528       2,018       2,642       4,471      6,486       8,801      23,617      29,782      64,261     186,077      207,385      234,015
Banana Products                 8           2           1           1           6           4           2          0           1            1           -       1,448        2,791
Sea food                    1,428       1,208       1,411       1,468       3,584      2,097       6,138       8,067       6,863      12,212      19,743       47,205       59,524
Other                         603         767         962       1,061       1,205       1,849      3,459       3,469       2,471       3,572       5,635        6, 876        9,902
Total Exports             152,508    188,661    145,921    182,976    190,766    256,264    232,547    397,913    351,471    475,135    671,403               842,362      936,270
II. Agricultural Imports                                                  Current US$ '000 CIF
A. Food                        3.443       4,498       4,256       3,639       3,182       3,894      4,706       2,343      14 ,180     14 ,066     18 ,947       31,340       35,236
B. Primary and inter-
mediate products           40,650      57,736      52,567      57 ,681     51,194     44,871      62,181    113 ,729    145 ,571    136 ,205    136 544       170,328       221,772
For agriculture           4,161       4,875       5,078       5,552       3,695       4,557       5,746     26,024      46,689      29,496      21,428       33,298        44,437       P D
For edible products      13,036      12,150      10,326      10,917      11,109      17,812      25,525     43 592      55 ,421     46 ,870     46,563        73, 120      87,418       u,
For non edible products 23,453       40,714      37,163      41,212      36,390      22,502     30 ,910     44 ,113     43 ,461     59 ,839     68,553       63, 910       89, 917
Total Imports              44,093      62,234      56,823      61,320     54 376      48,765      66,887    121,072    160,351    150,271    155 491          201,688      257,008
Souree: central Bank Annual Bulletin #3



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extens ion Service - Cost Summary
(S/ 1000)
------------------------------------Vear------------------    ----                           Foreiqn Exchange
Investments                                 1            2              3             4              5         6        Total         _%        Amount
Buildings -/                             7,280.7      9,676.0        4,890.2       1,124.2           -         -       22,971.1         40       9,188.4
Vehicles                                 7,140.7       2,500.0          -              -             -         -        9,640.7        100       9,640.7
Office Equipment                            335.3        502.8         173,4          139.4        18.6      18.6       1,188.1         80         950.5
Miscellaneous Equipment                     40.0         138.3         134.0          40.0           -         -          352.3         50         176.2
Training of Farmers                         317.0        460.0       1,880.0       1,645.0        940.0    940.0        6,182.0         10         618.2
Training of Extensionists (Abroad)         515.0         500.0         417.5           -             -         -        1,432.5        100       1,432.5
Training of Extensionists (Local)           500.0        500.0         500.0           -             -         -        1,500.0         10         150.0
Consultants (48 man-months)              3,250.0       5,250.0       2,250.0       1,250.0           -       _         12-, 0          1J             0
Subtotal                              19,378,7    19,527.1        10,245.1       4,198,6       988.6      958.6    5                  55      30,556.5
Oparatina Costs 
Salaries                                  7,991.8    10,258.5       11,373.7        11,373.7  11,373.7  11,373.7    63,745.1            -           _
Equipment and Vehicles                      578.2        938.4         938.4           938.4      838.4      838.4      5,070.2         25       1,267.6
Other Costs                                910.4       1.260.9       1.394.8         1.552.3   1.476.0   1.476.0        8.070.4         25       2,017.6
Subtota1                               9,480.4    12,457.8        13,706.9       13,864.4  1.3,688.1  13,688.1       76,885.7          4       3,285.2
Total                                 28,859.1    31,984.9        23,952.0       18,063.0  14,646.7  14,646.7   132,152.4             26      33,841.7
1/ Agriculture and marketing centers, swine breeding center and forestry nursery.
February 4, 1981                                                                                                                                                        e
o> 



- 38 -
ECUADOR                            ANNEX 1
Table 3(b)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOP}IENT PROJECT
Agricultutal Extension Service
Agritultural Centers and Marketing Facilities
Building Costs
2    Total    Foreign Exchange
Center                Area    Cost/m        Cost      %        Cost
-2-        si  '       0 S/ ''000
La Bramadora
Offices                             80      6,000       480      40         192
Community Center                   100      4,000       400      40         160
Living Quarters                    450      6,000      2,700     40       1,080
Warehouse                          100      4,000        400     40         160
Marketing Center                   350      4,000     1,400      40         560
Roads and Services-                        Global     1,614      40         646
Subtotal                                            6,994      40       2,798
El Paraiso
Offices                             80      6,000        480     40         192
Community Center                   100      4,000        400     40         160
Living Quarters                    450      6,000      2,700     40       1,080
Warehouse                          100      4,000        400     40         160
Marketing Center                   350      4,000     1,400      40         560
Roads and Services-                       Global      j,614      40         646
Subtotal                                            6,994      40       2,798
Santa Maria
Offices                             80     6,000        480      40         192
Community Center                   100     4,000        400      40         160
Living Quarter                     250      6,000     1,500      40         600
Warehouse                          100      4,000        400     40         160
Marketing Center                   350      4,000     1,400      40         560
Roads and Services-                       Global      1,254      40         502
Subtotal                                            5,434      40       2,1174
Total Base Costs                                     19,422      40       7,770
1/ Estimated at 30% of buildings costs.



- 41 -
ECUADOR                                                ANNEX 1
Table 3(e)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Service
Staffin and Costs
(S/ 000)
-----------------------------Year---------________________________----
1               2               3                4               5                6          Total
o Cot   No        Cost   No       Cost   No        Cost   No       Cost   No        Cost     Cost
1   Specia  Services Unit (USE)
Agriculturalist (Chief)           1    260.8    1       260.8    £       260.8    1      260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1.564.8
Livestock Expert                  1    260.8    1       260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Cacao Specialist                  1    260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Coffee Specialist                 1    260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Forestry Specialist               1    260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Marketing Specialist              1    260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Socíologist                       1    215.6    1       215.6    1      215.6    1       215.6    1      215.6    1       215.6    1,293.6
Draftsman                         1      88.4    1       88.4    1       88.4    1        88.4    1       88.4    1        88.4      530.4
Secretaríes                       2    203.0    2       203.0    2      203.0    2       203.0    2      203.0    2       203.0    1,218.0
Driver                            1      97.5    1       97.5    1       97.5    1        97.5    1       97.5    1        97.5      585.0
Messengers                        2    154.4    2       154.4    2      154.4    2       154.4    2      154.4    2       154.4      926.4
Subtotal                       13  2,323.7   13   2,323.7   13   2,323.7   13   2,323.7   13   2,323.7   13   2,323.7   13,942.2
2.  La Bramadora
Agriculturist (Chief)             1    260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Livestock Expert                  1    247.3    1       247.3    1      247.3    1       247.3    1      247.3    1       247.3    1,483.8
Extension Agents                  3    450.0    9   1,349.8   12   1,799.7   12   1,799.7   12   1,799.7   12   1,799.7    8,Q98.6
Forestry Agent                    1    149.9    1       149.9    1      149.9    1       149.9    1      149.9    1       149.9      899.4
Social Workers                    3    341.9    3       341.9    3      341.9    3       341.9    3      341.9    3       341.9    2,051.4
Administrative Assistants         1    114.0    2       227.9    2       227.9    2      227.9    2      227.9    2       227.9    1,253.5
Secretaries                       1    101.5    2       203.0    2      203.0    2       203.0    2      203.0    2       203.0    1,116.5
Guard                             1      77.2    1       77.2    1        77.2    1       77.2    1       77.2    1        77.2      463.2
Subtotal                       12  1,742.6   20   2,857.8   23   3,307.7   23   3,307.7   23   3,307.7   23   3,307.7   17,831.2
3.  Santa Maria
Agriculturist (Chief)             1    260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    U,'(;4. 5
Livestock Expert                  1    247.3    1       247.3    1      247.3    1       247.3    1      247.3    1       247.3    1,483.8
Extension Agents                 J3   449.9    6        899.9    9   1,349.8    3   1,349.8    9   1,349.8    9   1,349.8    6,749.0
Forestry Agent                    1    149.9    1       149.9    1       149.9    1      149.9    1      149.9    1       149.9       899.4
Social Workers                    2            227.9     2   227.9                2 227.9     2  277* 9  227.9    2       227.9    1,367.4
Administrativc Assistants         1    114.C    1       114.0    _      227.9    2       227.9    2      227.9    2       227.9    1,139.6
Secretaries                       1    101.5    1       1n1.5    2      203.0    2       203.0    2      203.0    2       203.0    1,015.0
Guard                             1      77.2    1       77.2    1        77.2    1       77.2    1       77.2    1        77.2       463.2
Subtotal                       11  1,628.5   14   2,078.5   19 - 2,743.8   19   2,743.8   19   2,743.8   19   2,743.8   14,682.2
4.  El Paraiso
Agriculturist (Chief)             1    260.8    1       260.8    1       260.8    1      260.8    1      260.8    1       260.8    1,564.8
Lívestock Expert                  1    247.3    1       247.3    1       247.3    1      247.3    1      247.3    1       247.3    1,483.8
Extension Agent                   4    600.0    8   1,200.0    8   1,200.0    8   1,200.0    8   1,200.0    8   1,200.0    6,600.0
Forestry Agent                     1    149.9    1      149.9    1       149.9    1      149.9    1      149.9    1       149.9       899.4
Social Workers                    2    227.9    2       227.9    2      227.9    2       227.9    2      227.9    2       227.9    1,367.4
Administrative Assistants         1    114.0    1       114.0    1       114.0    1      114.0    1      114.0    1       114.0       684.0
Seoretaries                       1    101.5    2       203.0    2       203.0    2      203.0    2      203.0    2       203.0    1,116.5
Guard                             1      77.2    1       77.2    1   _  77.2    1         77.2    1       77.2    1        77.2       463.2
Subtotal                       10  1,778.6   17   2,480.1   17   2,480.1   17   2,480.1   17   2,480.0   17   2,480.0   14,179.1
5. INIAP Staff
Livestock Expert                  1    259.2    1       259.2    1       259.2    1      259.2    1      259.2    1       259.2    1,555.2
Field & Tree Crop Specialist    1    259.2    1         259.2    1       259.2    1      259.2    1      259.2    1       259.2    1,555.2
Subtotal                        2    518.4    2       518 4    2      518.4    2       518.4    2      518.4    2       518.4    3,110.4
TOTAL                          48  7,991.8   66  10,258.5   74  11,373.7   74  11,373.7   74  11,373.7   74  11,373.7   63,745.1
January 27, 1981



- 42 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 3(f)
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Extension Service
Operation and Maintenance Costs
(S/ '000)
------------------Year----------------------
1         2          3          4         5-20       Total
Special Services Unit
Operating Expenses           195.6      195.6      195.6     195.6      195.6       978.0
Equipment and Vehicles       113.9      113.9     113.9      113.9      113.9       569.5
Subtotal                   309.5     309.5      309.5      309.5      309.5    1,547.5
INIAP's Training Program
Supplies                     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0       -          400.0
Equipment and Vehicles       100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0       -          400.0
Subtotal                   200.0     200.0      200.0      200.0                  800.0
Agricultural Centers
General Costs                614.8      965.3   1,099.2   1,256.7   1,280.4    5,216.4
Equipment and Vehicles       364.3      724.5      724.5     724.5      724.5    3,262.3
Subtotal                   979.1   1,689.8   1,823.7   1,981.2   2,004.9    8,478.7
TOTAL                   1,488.6   2,199.3   2,333.2   2,490.7   2,314.4   10,826.2
October 17, 1980



CUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Ownership Legalization and Titling Program
Schedule of Implementation
Unit   ---------------------Years---------------------    Totals
1981         1982         1983          1984
Land Tenure Survey                   ha      55,000        52,400      46,700        17,500        171,600
Santo Domingo Zonal Office         ha      10,000        9,200        8,200         3,100         30,500
El Carmen Zonal Office             ha      15,000       14,000       12,500         4,700         46,200
Quevedo Zonal Office               ha      30,000       29,200       26,000         9,700         94,900
Topographícal Survey                 ha      15,000        30,000      30,000        25,000        100,000
Legal Procedures
Legalization of land ownership
sales and subdivisions        ha/farms   4,000/280   15,000/500  19,000/770   10,100/560    48,100/2,110
New land Titíes                   ha/farms   5,000/ 50    9,000/400  14,000/520   10,0001320    38,000/1,290
Source: IERAC adjusted by mission.and revised during negotiations.
April 13, 1981
,-Jt9



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Ownership Legalization and Titling
Investment and Operating Costs (S/ '000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3   Year 4        Total       %       S/.'0OO
Investments
Topographical Equipment           2,330.8                                  2,330.8      90       2,110.5
Office Equipment                    274.4                                    274.4      50         137.2
Vehicles (7)                      1,749.8                                  1,749.8    100        1,749.8       1
Subtotal                        4,355.0                                  4,355.0      92       3,997.5
Operating Costs
Salaries                          4,188.0   4,188.0   4,188.0   4,188.0  20,940.0       -             -
Other Costs                         312.0    312.0       312.0    312.0   1,560.0       25        390.0
Subtotal                        4,500.0   4,500.0   4,500.0   4,500.0  22,500.0        2        390.0
TOTAL                        8,855.0   4,500.0   4,500.0   4,500.0  26,855.0       16.3    4,387.5
Source IERAC
November 3, 1980                                                                                                 O I



ANNr,A 1
- 45 -                          Table 4(c)
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Ownership Legalization and Titling
IERAC's Field Incremental Staff and Salaries
Total
Annual     Salaries
Position                   No.      Salary       1 yr.
S/         si
Chief Program                            1     144,000       144,000
Promoter                                 4     100,800       403,200
Draftsman                                3      86,400       259,200
Office Clerk                             2      56,400       112,800
Surveyors                                7      96,000       672,000
Laborers                                28      48,000    1,344,000
Subtotal                              45        -          244,600
Social Benefits (41.6% of salary)       -         -        2,935,200
Field Allowance                         45      24,000    1,080,000
TOTAL                                 45                 5,235,754
Source: IERAC



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads
Cost Estimates
(in US$'OO0 at July 1980 prices)
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5         Year 6          Total           F.E.
1. CIVIL WORKS                               Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Uníts  Cost   Units  Cost  Units  Cost   Units  Cost    %    Cost
(a) Road Construction (km)                 65   1,750    48   2,460    54   2,480    48   1,910           -     -        -    -       215   8,600    45  3,870
(b) Road Maintenance (km)                  60       60   120      120   180      180   240       240   240      240    240   240       -    1,080    25    270
Subtotal                               1,810          2,580           2,660          2,150             240           240           9,680    43  4,140
2. EQUIPMENT
Road Maintenance Equipment
and 10% spare parts                              290            290                                                                          580    95    550
3. SERVICES
(a) Consultants for Road
Studies (about 120 km)                60      180    60      180                                                                 120      360    50    180
(b) Construction Supervision by MOP                100            140             140            140                                            520    -       -
Subtotal                                 280             320            140            140                                            880           180
TOTAL BASE COST                        2,330          3,190          _2_800          2,290             240           240           11,140    44  4,87
Source: MOP and Mission Estimates
Septenmher 1980
F3>
D b
a P



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
ECUADOR                               Table 5(b)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads
Road Network in the Project Area (in km)
To be upgraded or constructed
Under the Fifth   Under the Pro-
Length   Highwav Project   posed Project
1. Existing All-Weather Roads li
La Bramadora-El Porvenir                         20.0
Km 25 Carretera-Colonia  30 de Noviembre          9.0
Km 35 Carretera-Colonia Cooperativa Policia    13.0
Km 37 Carretera-San Vicente de Nila              11.0
Congoma-Puerto lía                                6.5                           6.5
Hacienda Gubermann-Nueva Bella Siria             12.5                          12.5
Guayacanes towards Santa Maria                   15.0
Carretera-Bifurcación La Reserva                  5.0
La Cancha-Rio de Oro                              8.0                           8.0
Sub-Total                                       100.0                          27.0
2. Existing Seasonal Roads or Tracks
Nueva Bella Siria-Empalme Troncal                 1.1          1.1
El Paraiso-Las Vegas-C.J. Arosemena               5.7         5.7
San Ramón-Toquilla-Gualipe                        8.8         8.8
Toquilla-Vaca de Monte                            4.4         4.4
Toquilla-Como Haremos                             0.5         0.5
Gualipe-Santa Marla                               3.4         3.4
Congoma-Empalme Nila                             11.2        11.2
Empalme Nila-San Vicente de Nila                  2.8         2.8
La Bramadora-La Palizada                         10.9        10.9
La Palizada-Marfa Pinto                          27.7                          27.7
Marla Pinto-La Florida                           18.0                          18.0
La Bramadora-El Para;so                          18.8                          18.8
Santa Maria-Dos Hermanas                          2.5                           2.5
El Porvenir-Río de Oro                           25.0                          25.0
Rio de Oro-San Pablo                             11.0                          11.0
San Vicente de Nila-Puerto Limón                 20.0                          20.0
Bifurcaci6n-La Reserva                            5.0                           5.0
La Reserva-Rio Peripa                            12.0                          12.0
Various Roads in La Reserva Area 21              17.0
Rest of Guayacanes-Santa María Road 2/           14.4
El Para;so-La Manga del Cura  2/                 12.0
La Yé-San Vicente de Nila    21                  10.8
Bifurcación Porvenir-Flor de Manabí 2/           10.0
Sub-Total                                       252.0        48.8             140.0
3. New Roads to be constructed
Trunk Road Puerto Ila-Doblones 3/                29.0        29.0
La Yé Puerto Límón                               22,0                          22.0
San Pablo-Tahuantinsuyo                           6.0                           6.0
Tahuantinsuyo-Doblones                           10.0                          1l.0
Doblones-Dos Hermanas                            10.0          _l.C
Sub-Total                                        77,n         >o 0             48.0
Total                                           429.0 4/    77.,              215.0
1/ Presently maintained by MOP
2/ Earth roads (64 km) not to be included in the maintenance program.
3/ Maintenance to be included in the national network maintanance program.
4/ Road density 0.25 km/km2 for the Guaya$ and El Oro provinces.
Source: MOP and Mission Estímates
September 1980



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                           Table 5(c)
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads
Minimum Design Standards
Class                            5                           .4
Type of Terrain*           F      U    M               F      .    M
Design Speed kph           50    35   25               50    35    25
Minimum Horiz.
Curve Radius -  m           80   40   30               80    40    30
Maximum Gradient %           6    7   10                6      8    1Q
Desirabla Maximum
Gradient Length.  m                  1000                          lQ00
Roadbed Width *m          6.0   6.0 6.0               4.0   4.0   4.0
Cross-slope a               4      4    4               4     4      4
Surface Type              Sub-base CBR>20             Sub-base CBR>20
Minimum Right-
of-way width   m                 15                         15
* F = Flat; U = Undulated; M Mountainous
** Passing bays to be, provided where nee-de-d



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRÓJECT
Feeder Roads
Annual Road Construction Program
(at July 1980 prices)
Contract                                                              Length            Cost
Number        Road                                                      Km        S/IOOo    US$0OOO  Status of Engineering
First Year
1      Congoma-Troncal, incl. one 40 m bridge                        6.5         8,000        320)  Completed by Consultants
Hacienda Gubermann-Nueva Bella Siria                         12.5         5,250        210)  revpeeed by MOnuandB
2      La Bramadora-El Paraiso, incl 5 small bridges                18.8        15,750        630)
3      La Palizada-MarTa Pinto                                      27.7        14,750        590   Completed by P.C.Guayas
Sub-Total                                                   65.5        43,750      1,750   to be reviewed by MOP
Second Year
4      María Pinto-Santa Teresa-La Florida                          18.0         9,500        380   As in 3 aboye
5      Bifurcación-La Reserva                                        5.0         7,000        280)  To be carried out
El Porvenir-Río de Oro                                       25.0       45,000      1,800)
Sub-Total                                                   48.0        61,500      2,460                            >
Third Year
8      La Yé-Puerto Limón                                           22.0         8,750        350)  To be carried out
9      La Reserva-Río Peripa                                        12.0        18,750        750)
10      Dos Hermanas-Santa María                                      2.5         5,500        220   As in 1 and 2 above
11      Río de Oro-San Pablo                                         11.0        19,500        780)  To be carried out
12      San Pablo-Tahuantinsuyo                                       6.0         9,500        380)
Sub-Total                                                   53.5        62,000      2,480
Fourth Year
13      Tahuantinsuyo-Doblones                                       10.0        20,000        800)  Completed by MOP
14      Doblones-Dos Hermanas                                        10.0        16,500        660)
15      San Vicente de Nila-Puerto Limón                             20.0         8,000        320   To be carried out
16      La Cancha-Rio de Oro                                          8.0         3,250        130   Completed by MOP
Sub-Total                                                   48.0        47,750      1,910
Total                                                      215.0       215,000      8,600                         IA
Source: MOP and Mission Estimates                                                                                            |
September 1980



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
ECUADOR                         Table 5(e)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads
Road Maintenance Equipment
(in ClF June iYÓ prices)
s/Iooo           Us$'OOO
1   Bulldozer, 140 HP                      2,250               90
1   Front end loader, 2.5 y3               1,250               50
1   Motorgrader 140 HP                     1,625               65
1   Self-Propelled vibrating roller          875               35
1   Screening plant, 100 m3/hr             1,500              60
6   Dump Trucks, 5 m3                      4,500             180
2   4x4 Pick-up trucks, 500 kgs              500              20
12,500             500
Initial stock spare parts, 10%         19250              50
Subtotal                              13,750             550
Local Expenditures                       750              30
Total                                 14,500             580
Source: Mission estimates
September 1980



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component - Total Cost and Schedule of Expenditures
(S/'000)
-  Year---                        - - -      Foeign Exchange
1          2           3          4           5        6       Total      %     Cost
Investment Costs
1. Facilities Construction           3,800.0    1,710.0    1,710.0        -                           7,220.0   40   2,888.0
2. Equipment and Vehicles            2,400.0    4,430.0        --         -           -               6,830.0   67   4,576.1
3. Training                            531.2       635.5      150.3      150.3       150.3            1,617.6   10       161.8
4. Nutrition                           100.0       250.0      250.0      450.0       450.0            1,500.0    2        30.0
5. Sanitation Works                  3,440.0    6,240.0    7,240.0   7,240.0    7,240.0              31,400.0   47  14,758.0
Subtotal    10,271.2   13,265.5    9,350.3   7,840.3    7,840.3               48,567.6   46  22,413.9
Operating Costs
1. Personnell                        2,580.0    3,350.0    3,455.0   3,645.0    3,748.0 3,748.0  20,526.0    -            -
2. Drugs and Supplies                  296.0       296.0      325.0      355.0       380.0   380.0   2,032.0   30        609.6
3. Transport                           120.0       255.0      275.0      280.0       305.0   305.0   1,540.0   36        554.4
4. Office Supplies                      50.0        50.0        60.0      60.0        60.0    60.0       340.0   30      102.0
Subtotal     3,046.0    3,951.0    4,115.0   4,340.0    4,493.0 4,493.0  24,438.0    5   1,266.0
Base Cost   13,317.2   17,216.5   13,465.3   12,180.3  12,333.3 4,493.0  73,005.6   32  23,639.9
December 19, 1980
<D



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component - Investment Costs
(S/'000)
Unit                               T - - - - - -   Year   - - - - - - - - -  Foreign Exehange
Cost          1         2           3         4         5         Total       Z       Cost
1. Construction
A. H. Subcenters  (2)               1,900.0      3,800.0    -           -          -         -        3,800.0    40       1,520.0
B. Health Posts (6)                   570.0        -  _ 1,710-0   1,710.0          -         -        3,420.0    40       1,368.0
Subtotal                   3,800.0  1,710.0   1,710.0        -         -        7,220.0    40       2,888.0
2. Equípment and Vehicles
A. Equipment for 4 Subcenters         475.0      1,900.0    -           -          -         -        1,900.0    70       1,330.0
B. Equipment for 6 H. Posts           105.0        -         630.0      -          -         -          630.0    30         189.0
C. Equipment (Partial) for 1
hospital                                    -       3,800.0      -          -          -       3,800.0    70        2,660.0
D. Vehicles                           500.0        500.0                                                500.0   100         500.0
Subtotal                   2,400.0  4,430.0       -          -         -        6,830.0    68       4,679.0
3. Training
A. Area Chief and Nurse
Course                         105.0         210.0    -          -          -         -           210.0    10          21.0    u
B. Staff Seminars (5)                  35.0         35.0      35.0       35.0       35.0      35.0      175.0    10          17.5
C. Sanitarians (4)                     17.25        69.0    -           -          -         -           69.0    10            6.9
D. Health Promoters (12)               11.0        132.0                                                132.0    10          13.2
E. Auxiliary Nurses (10)               17.4         85.2      85.2      -          -         -          170.4    10          17.0
F. Continuing Education
Program                           -                    65.3       65.3        65.3      65.3      261.2    10          26.1
G. Community Group Courses                                   450.0       50.0       50.0      50.0      600.0    10          60.0
Subtotal                     531.2    635.5       150.3      150.3    150.3   1,617.6    10           161.7
4. Nutrition
A. School and Community
Horchards                          -        -         150.0      150.0      350.0    350.0   1,000.0         5         50.0
B. Nutrition Surveillance                -         100       100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0       500.0    10          50.0
Subtotal                     100       250.0      250.0      450.0    450.0.  1,500.0        7        100.0
5. Sanitation Works
A. Water Supply in Villages (10) 2,600.0    3,000.0   5,000.0   6,000.0   6,000.0  6,000.0  26,000.0    49    12,740.0
B. Shallow-Wella for Clustered
Households (200)                 16.0      -          800.0      800.0      800.0    800.0   3,200.0    35         1,120.0
C. Sewage Units  (1,000)                2.2       440.9      440.0      440.0      440.0    440.0   2,200.0    35           770.0
Subtotal                  3,440.0   6,240.0   7,240.0   7,240.0  7,240.0  31,400.0    47    14,630.0
Base Cost                             10,271.2  13,265.5   9,350.3   7,840.3  7,840.3  48,567.6    46    22,458.7
March 25, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Health Component - Operating Costs
(S/'000)
Year -      - - -                                  Foreign Exchange
1        2         3        4         5          6       Total              %       Cost
1. Personnel
Area Chief (M.D.)                 300      350       350       400      400        400      2,200
Chief Nurse                       180      200       200       220      220        220      1,240
4 Physicians                    1,000    1,080    1,080    1,200    1,200        1,200      6,760
10 Auxiliary Nurses               620    1,240    1,300    1,300    1,360        1,360      7,180
4 Sanitarians                     250      250       275       275       288        288     1,626
12 Health Promoters               230      230       250       250       280        280     1,520
Subtotal          2,580    3,350    3,455    3,645    3,748        3,748    20,526
2. Drugs and Supplies
For all Health Facilities         224      224       250       280      300        300      1,578              30    473.4
For Health Promoters               72       72        75        75        80        80        454              30    136.2
Subtotal            296      296       325       355       380        380     2,032              30    609.6
3, Transport
Fuel                           100       220       240       240      265        265      1,330              30    399.0
Repairs                        ---        10        10        15       15          15        65              70     45.5
Travel                           20       25        25        25       25          25       145              50     72.5
Subtotal            120      255       275       280      305        305      1,540             36    517.0
4. Office Supplies
For all Health Facilities          50       50        60        60       60         60        340             30    102.0
Subtotal                                                                                                       3 >
Base Cost         3,046    3,951    4,115    4,340    4,493        4,493    24,438                5  1,228.6
December 19, 1980



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Executing Unit
Cost Estimates
(S/ '000)
---- - ------ - --------Year    ---- ------------                            Foreign Exchange
1          2         3          4          5          6         Total       Z         Cost
Investments
Vehicles (3)                            750.0       -          -         -          -          -           750.0   100         750.0
Office Equipment
Director's Office                      25.6       38.4       -         -          -          -            64.0    80          51.2
Planning and Monitoring Office         41.3       61.9       -         -          -          -          103.2    80           82.6
Administrative Office                  36.7       55.0      -          -          -          -            91.7    80          73.4
Subtotal                              103.6     155.3                                                   258.9    80          207.2
Miscellaneous Equipment
Director's Office                      -          13.7       10.0      -           -         -            23.7    50           11.9
Planning and Monitoring Office         -           5.3        5.0      -           -         -            10.3    50            5.1
Administrative Office                  -           5.2        4.0      -           -                       9.2    50            4.6
Subtotal                                          24.2       19.0                                         43.2    50           21.6
Total Investments                       853.6      179.5       19.0                                     1,052.1    93           978.8
Salaries 1/
Director's Office                       900.4      900.4      900.4      900.4      900.4     900.4    5,402.4    -              -
PlanninÉ and Monitoring Office          505.0      505.0      505.0      505.0      505.0     505.0    3,030.0    -              -
Administrative Office                   914.6      914.6      914.6      914.6      914.6      914.6    5,487.6    -             -
Subtotal                           2,320.0   2,320.0   2,320.0   2,320.0   2,320.0   2,320.0   13,920.0
Operating Costs
Dírector's Office                        90.2       90.2       90.2       90.2       90.2       90.2       541.2    25          135.3
Planning and Monitoring Office          100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       600.0    25          150.0
Administrative Office                    96.0       96.0       96.0       96.0       96.0       96.0       576.0    25          144.0
Subtotal                              286.2      286.2      286.2     286.2       286.2     286.2    1,717.2    25            429.3
TOTAL                                 3,459.8   2,785.7   2,625.2   2,606.2   2,606.2   2,606.2   16,689.3            8       1,408.1
October 29, 1980
1/  Salaries and operating cost of Technical Office included in the corresponding project components.                                  - -



ANNEX 1
Table 8
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
S/ '000                               US$'000                Poreign      % of
Local        Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign   Total    Exchange    Base Cost
Extension Service
Buildinga                                 13,782.7       9,188.4   .22,971.1        551.4       367.6      919.0    40
Vehicles and Equipment                       413.7      10,767.4    11,181.1         16.5       430.7      447.2    96
Training of Farmers                        5,563.8          618.2      6,182.0      222.6        24.7               10
Traitnin  of Extensionists (Abroad)            -         1,432.5       1,432.5       -           57.3       57.3   100
Treining of Extensionists (Local)          1,350.0          150.0     1,500.0        54.0         6.0       60.0    10
Consultants                                3,600.0       8,400.0    12,000.0        144.0       336.0      480.0    70
Salaries                                  63,745.1           -       63,745.1   2,549.6           -     2,549.6      -
Operating Costs                            9,855.4       3,285.2    13,140.6        394.2       131.4      525.6    25
Subtotal                                98,310.7      33,841.7   132,152.4   3,932.3    1,353.7   5,286.0    21               14.5
Farm Development (Credit)
Investments                              180,654.2      77,423.3   258,077.5   7,226.8    3,096.3  10,323.1    30
Working Capital                           47,922.0      20,538.0    68,460.0   1,916.9          821.5   2,738.4    30
Subtotal                               228,576.2      97,961.3   326,537.5   9,143.7    3,917.8  13,061.5    30               36.0
Land Ownershio Legalization & Titíing
Vehicles and Equipment                       357.5       3,997.5      4,355.0        14.3       159.9      174.2    91.8
Salaries                                  20,940.0          -        20,940.0       837.6         -       837.6      -
Operating Costs                            1,170.0          390.0      1,560.0       46.8        15.6       62.4    25
Subtotal                                22,467.5       4,387.5    26,855.0       898.7       175.5   1,074.2    16.3           3.0
Feeder Roads
Engineering Designs                        4,500.0       4,500.0      9,000.0       180.0       180.0     360.0    50
Supervision                               13,000.0           -       13,000.0       520.0         -       520.0      -
Construction                             118,250.0      96,750.0   215,000.0   4,730.0    3,870.0   8,600.0    45
Subtotal                               135,750.0    101,250.0   237,000.0   5,430.0    4,050.0   9,480.0    43                26.0
Road Maintenance
Equipment                                    750.0      13,750.0    14,500.0         30.0       550.0     580.0    95
Operating Costs During Construction    20,250.0          6,750.0    27,000.0        810.0       270.0   1,080.0    25
Subtotal                                21,000.0      20,500.0    41,500.0       840.0       820.0   1,660.0    49             4.6
Health Care
Buildings                                  4,332.0       2,888.0       7,220.0      173.3       115.5      288.8    40
Equipment and Vehicles                     2,253.9       4,576.1      6,830.0        90.2       183.0      273.2    67
Training                                   1,455.8          161.8      1,617.6       58.2         6.5       64.7    10
Nutrition Program                          1,470.0           30.0      1,500.0       58.8         1.2       60.0      2
Operating Costs                           23,209.4       1,228.6    24,438.0        928.4        49.1      977.5      5
Subtotal                                32,721.1       8,884.5    41,605.6   1,308.9         355.3   1,664.2    21             4.6
Sanitation Works
Village Water Supply                      13,260.0       12,740.0    26,000.0       530.4       509.6   1,040.0    49
Rural Areas Shallow Wells                  2,080.0        1,120.0      3,200.0       83.2        44.8      128.0    35
Sewage Units (Credit)                      1,430.0          770.0      2,200.0       57.2        30.8       88.0    35
Subtotal                                16,770.0      14,630.0    31,400.0       670.8       585.2   1,256.0    47             3.5
School Construction                       32,400.0      21,600.0    54,000.0   1,296.0          864.0   2,160.0    40             6.0
Project Unit
Vehi cles aud Equipment                        42.1       1,010.0      1,052.1        1.7        40.4       42.1    96
Salaries                                  13,920.0           -        13,920.0      556.8         -        556.8     -
Operating Costs                            1,287.2          430.-      1,717.2       51.4        17.2       68 A     25
Subtotal                                15243             400    16,689.3        609.9         57.6     667.6      9           1.8
Total Base Cost                          603,244.8    304,495.0   907,739.8  24,130.0   12,179.4  36,309.4    34               100.0
Piysical Contingencies                    72,940.0      35,712.5   108,652.5   2,917.6    1,428.5   4,346.1    33               12.0
Price Contingencies                                                              11,041.7    5,392.1  16,433.8    33            45.3
Total Cost                                                                    38,089.3   19,000.0  57,089.3    33             T7-7
April 13, 1981



- 56 -
AmNEX 1
ECUADOR                                          Table 9
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE Of INVESTMENTS
_______________________
tUSS '000]
1           2            3            4            5           6       TOTALS
EXTENSION SERVICE
BUILDINGS                      291.30       387.00       195.70       45.00            0            0       919.00
VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT           300.60       125.60        12.30         7.10        0.80         0.80      447.20
FARMERS'TRAINING                12.70        18.40        75.20       65.80        37.60        37.60       247.30
EXTS.TRAINING ABROAD            20.60        20.00        16.70            0           a            0       57.30
EXTS.TRAINING LOCAL             20.00        20.00        20.00            0           0            0       60.00
CONSULTANTS                    130.00       210.00        90.00       50.00            0            0       480.00
SALARIES                       319.70       410.30       454.90      454.90       454.90       454.90     2549.60
OPERATING COSTS                 59.50        88.00        93.30       99.60        92.60        92.60       525.60
SUB TOTAL                   1154.40      1279.30      958.10       722.40       585.90       585.90     5286.00
FARM DEVELOPMENT(CREDIT]
INVESTMENTS                    827.92      1480.90     1850.97      2042.84      2102.14      2018.29    10323.06
WORKING CAPITAL                192.36       354.21       498.03      558.18       573.49       562.10      2738.37
:   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -- --- -- - -  --  - -----  ---------    --____ ___  __ _ _ _ _  -___ __ _   ---_________
SUB TOTAL                   1020.28      1835.11     2349.00      2601.02      2675.63      25B0.39    13061.43
LAND TITLING
VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT           174.20            0            0            0           0            0       174.20
SALARIES                       209.40       209.40       209.40      209.40            0            0       987.80
OPERATING COSTS                 15.60        15.60        15.60       15.60            0            0       82.40
SUB TOTAL                    399.20       225.00      225.00       225.00            0            0     1074.20
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
ENGINEERING DESIGNS            180.00       180.00            0           0            0            0      360.00
SUPERVISION                    100.00       140.00      140.00       140.00            0            0      520.00
CONSTRUCTION                  1750.00      2460.00     2480.00      191 0.00           0            0     8800.00
SUB TOTAL                   2030.00      2780.00     2620.00      2050.00            0            0     9480.00
ROAD MAINTENANCE
EQUIPMENT                      290.00       290.00            0           0            0            0      580.00
COSTRUCT. OPERT. COSTS          60.00       120.00       1BO.00      240.00       240.00       240.00     1080.00
SUB TOTAL                    350.00      .410.00      180.00       240.00       240.00       240.00     1660.00
HEALTH CARE
BUILOINGS                      152.00        58.40        66.40            0           0            0      2B8.80
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLES            96.00       177.20            0           a            0            0      273.20
TRAINING                        21.25        25.42         6.00        6.00         6.00            0        64.67
NUTRITION PROGRAM                4.00        10.00        10.00       16.00        18.00            0       60.00
OPERATING COSTS                121.80       158.10       164.60      173.60       179.70       179.70      977.50
SUB TOTAL                    395.05       439.12       249.00      197.60       203.70       179.70     1664.17
SANITATION WORKS
VILLAGES' WATER SUPPLY         120.00       200.00       240.00      240.00       240.00            0     1040.00
RURAL AREAS' WELLS                  a        32.00        32.00       32.00        32.00            0      128.00
SEWER UNITS                     17.60        17.80        17.60       17.60        17.60            0       88.00
SUB TOTAL                    137.60       249.60      289.60       289.60       289.60            0     1256.00
SCHOOLS' CONSTRUCTION          216.00       432.00      540.00       540.00       432.00            0     2160.00
PROJECT UNIT
VEHICLES & EUUIPMENT            34.14         7.18        0.80            0            0            0       42.12
SALARIES                        92.80        92.60       92.80        92.80        92.80        92.80      556.80
OPERATING COSTS                 11.44        11.44       11.44        11.44        11.44        11.44       68.64
SUB TOTAL                    138.38       111.42      105.04       104.24       104.24      104.24       667.56
TOTAL BASE COST               5640.91      7761.55     7515.74      6969.86      4531.07     3690.23    36309.36
PHYSICAL CONTING.              714.44       962.01      93g.26       949.22       601.1     381.02        4346.13
BASE PLUS PHYSIC.CONTG.       6555.35      8723.58     8455.00      7818.08      5032.26      4071.25    40655.49
PRICE CONTING.                1151.28      2426.34     3216.06      3783.19      2995.17     2859.80    16433.85
TOTAL COST                    7706.63    11151.89    11671.06    11601.26        8027.43     6931.06    57089.33



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Financing
Government       Beneficiaries         World Bank
uS$'0o0oo          uss8 ooo      Z     us$o 000             Total
Extension Service
Buildings                                           501.3    55                           417.7    45          919.0
Vehicles and Equipment                               16.5      4                          430.7    96          447.2
Training of Farmers                                 134.9    55                           112.4    45          247.3
Training of Extensionists (Abroad)                   -         -                           57.3   100           57.3
Training of Extensionists (Local)                    32,8    55                            27.2    45           60.0
Consultants                                         144.0    30                           336.0    70          480.0
Salaries                                         2,549.6   100                             -         -       2,549.6
Operating Costs                                     525.6   100                            -         -         525.6
Subtotal                                    3,904.7    74                         1,381.3    26        5,286.0
On-Farm Investmenta                              3,804.1    37       1,827,3   18       4,691.7    45       10,323.1
Working Capital (Short term credit)              2,738.4   100                             -         -       2,738.4
Land Ownership Legalization and Titling
Vehicles and Equipment                               14.3      8                          159.9    92          174.2
Salar6es                                            837,6   100                            -         -         837,6
Operating Costs                                      62.4   100                            -         -          62,4
Subtotal                                      914.3    85                            159.9    15       1,074.2
Feeder Roads
Engineering Designs                                 196.4    55                           163.6    45          360.0
Supervision                                         520.0   100                            -         -         520.0
Construction                                      4,691.5    55                         3,908.5    45        8,600.0
Subtotal                                    5,407.9    57                         4,072.1    43        9,480.0
Road Maintenance
Equipment                                            30,0      5                          550,0    95          580,0
Operating Costs During Construction               1,080.0   100                            -         -       1,080,0
Subtotal                                    1,110.0    67                            550.0    33       1,660.0
Medical Care
Buildings                                           157,6    55                           131.2    45          288.8
Equipment and Vehicles                               90.2    33                           183.0    67          273.2
Training                                             35,3    55                             29.4    45          64.7
Nutrition Program                                    12.0    20                            48.0    80           60.0
Operating Costs                                     977.5   100                             -        -         977.5
Subtotal                                    1,272.6    76                            391.6    24        1,664.2
Sanitation Works
Village Water Supply                                457.6    44         208.0   20         374.4    36       1,040.0
Rural Areas Shallow Wells                            56,4    44          25,6   20          46.0    36         128.0
Sewege Units (credit)                                48.0    55        _          -         40.0    45          88.0
Subtotal                                       562.0    45        233.6   19         460.4    36        1,256.0
School Construction                               1,177.1    55                           982,9    45        2,160,0
Project Unit
Vehicles and Equipment                                 1.7     4                            40.4    96           42.1
Salaries                                            556.8   100                              -       -         556.8
Operating Costs                                      68.o   100                              -       -          68.6
Subtotal                                       627.2    94        _      _            40.4      6         667.6
Total Base Cost                                  21,518.2    59       2,060.9    6    12,730.3    35        36,309.4
Physical Contingencies                            2,547.1    59         244.9    6       1,554,1    35       4,346,1
Price Contingencies                               9,723.9    59         994.3    6       9,715-E,   35      16,433.8
Total Cost                                  33,789.2    59      3,300.1    6    20,000.0    35         57,089.3
April 13, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Patterns With and Without Project in Farms up to 100 ha.
Up to 10 ha.              11 - 20 ha              21 - 50 ha                  51 - 100 ha                Total
(1,087 Farms)               (929 Farms)              (1,978 Farms)              (606 Farms)             (4,600 Farms)
Wíthout      With         Without      With         Without      With         w.ithout     With         Without      With
Annual Crops                        326.1       1,087.0       929.0      1,858,0      1,978.0      3,956.0      1,212.0      1,212.0      4,445.1      8,113.0
Perennial Crops
Actual
Cacao                          1,087.0          -        2,229.6         -         9,296.6         -        4,242.0          -        16,855.2         -
Coffee                         1,087.0         _         1,486.4         -         5,736.2         -         3,333.0         -        11,642.6         -
Banana and Others              1,087.0          -        1,393.5         -         3,758.2         -         2,121.0         -        8,359.7          -
Rehabilitation
Cacao                             -           543,5         -         1,114.8         -         4,747.2         -         2,121.0         -        8,526.5
Coffee                            -           543.5         -           743.2         -         3,164.8         -         1,818.0         -         6,269.5      u
Banana and Others                 -         1, 087.0        -         1,393.5         -         3,758.2         -         2,121.0         -        8,359.7
Renovation
Cacao                             -           543.5         -         1,207.7         -         4,747.2         -         2,121.0         -         8,619.4
Coffee                           _            543.5         -           650,3         -         3,362.6         -         1,515.0         -        6,071.4
Pastures                          1,087.0        543.5      3,251.5      3,251.5    24,329.4    19,780.0    18,180.0    18,180.0    46,847.9    41,755.0
Forest and Others                   760.9        543.5      2,787.0      1,858.0    i4,241.6    15,824.0        7,272.0      7,272.0    25,061.5    25,497.5
Total Area                    5,435.0       5,435.0    12,077.0    12,077.0    59,340.0    59,340.0    36,360.0    36,360.0   113,212.0   113,212.0
November 5, 1980
01
l-'
5D



- 59 -
ECUADOR                                  ANNEX 1
Table 11(b)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CropPing Pattern on a Small-Scale Farm (up to 10 ha)
Without       Wit1l Project
Project           Years  - - - - - -
1      2      3       4-20
-   -   -   -   -  -  ha  -     -   -   -   -   -
Crops
Annual                         0.3    0.5    0.7    1.0        1.0
Perenníal                       3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0       3.0
Actual
Cacao                        1.0    0.5
Caffee                       1.0    0.5
Banana and others            1.0    0.5
Rehabilitation
Cacao                                0.25   0.5    0.5       0.5
Coffee                               0.25   0.5    0.5       0.5
Banana and others                    0.50   1.0    1.0       1.0
Renovation
Cacao                                0.25   0.5    0.5       0.5
Coffee                               0.25   0.5    0.5       0.5
Pastures                          1.0    0.8    0.7    0.5       0.5
Forest and others                0.7    0.7    0.6    0.5        0.5
Total Area                  5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0        5.0
_   =   _   =    _
August 26, 1980



- 60 -
ECUADOR                                   ANNEX 1
Table 1-1 (c)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern on a Medíum-Scale Farm (11-20 ha)
With Pro`ect
Wíthout   - - - - -   Years    - - - - - - - - -
Project   1      2       3      4      5       6-20
-     -     -     -     -     -     -     -    -  ha  -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -
Crops
Annual                     1.0    1.3    1.6    2.0    2.0    2.0        2.0
Perennial                 5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5         5.5
Actual
Cacao                   2.4    1.5    0.8      -       -      -         -
Coffee                   1.6    0.8     -      -       -      -         -
Banana and Dthers        1.5    0.7     -       -      -      -         -
Rehabilitation
Cacao                    -      0.4    0.8    1.2    1.2    1.2        1.2
Coffee                   -      0.4    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8       0.8
Banana and others        -      0.8    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5        1.5
Renovation
Cacao                    -      0.5    0.9    1.3    1.3    1.3        1.3
Coffee                   -      0.4    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7       0.7
Pastures                     3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5        3.5
Forest and others            3.0    2.7    2.4    2.0    2.0    2.0        2.0
Total Area            13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0       13.0
August 26, 1980



- 61 -                              ANNEX 1
Table ll(d)
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern on a Medium-Scale Farm (21-50 ha)
With Project
Without         - - - - - - - -   Year  - - - - - - - - -
Crops                       Project           1         2         3         4        5-20
Annual                              1.0           2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0
Perennial                           9.5          10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0
Actual or Old
Cacao                             4.7          3.1       1.5
Coffee                            2.9          2.2       1.0
Banana and Others                 1.9           -         -
Rehabilitation
Cacao                                          0.8       1.6       2.4       2.4       2.4
Coffee                                         0.5       1.1       1.6       1.6       1.6
Banana and Others                              1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9       1.9
Renovation
Cacao                                          0.9       1.7       2.4       2.4       2.4
Coffee                                         0.6       1.2       1.7       1.7       1.7
Pastures                           12.3         10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0
Forest and Others                   7.2           8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
Total Area                    30.0         30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0      30.0
September 15, 1980



- 62 -
ECUADOR                                  ANNEX 1
Table ll(e)
PUERTO ILA CHO1NE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cropping Pattern on a Large-Scale Farm (51-100 ha)
Without                With Project
-        -    Years - - - - - - -
Project     1       2      3       4      5-20
_-_ _ _ ___ - -  - -   --   ha   - - - - -    -
Crops
Annual                          2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0         2.0
Perennial                      16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0        16.0
Actual
Cacao                         7.0    5.6    4.2    2.8    1.4         -
Coffee                        5.5    4.4    3.3    2.2    1.1         -
Banana and others             3.5    2.8    2.1    1.4    0.7         -
Rehabilitation
Cacao                          -     0.7    1.4    2.1    2.8        3.5
Coffee                         -     0.6    1.2    1.8    2.4        3.0
Banana and others              -     0.7    1.4    2.1    2.8        3.5
Renovation
Cacao                          -     0.7    1.4    2.1    2.8        3.5
Coffee                         -     0.5    1.0    1.5    2.0        2.5
Pastures                         30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0        30.0
Forest and others                12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0        12.0
Total Area                 60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0        60.0
August 26, 1980



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield per Hectare By Year
(kg)
Without                                With Project
rj c        - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Years-- -   - - - - - -
Crops/Year               Project     1        2       3       4       5        6       7       8      9-20
A. Annuals
Maize                     770     900   1,000   1,200   1,400   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600   1,600
Beans                     500     600      900   1,000   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100
Peanuts                   820     920   1,000   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400        o
Rice                      960   1,200   1,400   1,600   1,800   1,800   1,800   1,800   1,800   1,800
Yucca                   3,820   4,800   5,800   6,800   7,300   7,300   7,300   7,300   7,300   7,300
B. Perennials
Cacao Rehabilitation      200     220      270     390     520     580      600     600     600      600
Cacao Renovation          200     000      000     100     180     260      360     460     560      640
Coffee Rehabilitationl/   200     220      260     390     500     570      600     600     600      600
Coffee Renovationl/       200     000      000      80     180     260      360     460     560      640
Banana Rehabilitation   5,000   5,500   6,300   7,300   8,100   9,100  11,500  13,700  13,700  13,700
1/ Dry beans ín parchment.
(D i--



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Production by Size of Farms, Without and With Project
CROPS                          MODEL 1                MODEL 2                MODEL 3               MODEL 4            TOTAL
mt         %           mt                     mt                     mt                    mt
WITHOUT PROJECT
Annuals (Food)              0.42         7         1.19        21         2.54         45        1.56         27        5.71
Perennials
Cacao                     0.22         7          .44        13         1.86        55         0.85         25       3.37
Coffee                    0.22         9          .30        13         1.15        49         0.67         29       2.33
Banana and Others         6.53        13         8.34        17        22.55        45        12.73         25      50.15    ¡
Total                   6.97        12         9.08        16        55.56        46        14.24         26      55.85
Meat                        n.a.                 119.58                 730.87                 671.75              1,522.21
Milk ('000 lt)                                   194.67          8    1,186.80         48    1,090.80         44   2,472.27
WITH PROJECT
Annuals (Food)              2.71        13         4.61         23        9.85         49        3.02         15       20.19
Perennials
Cacao                     0.68         6         1.44        14         5.89         55        2.63         25       10.63
Coffee                    0.65         9          .82        11         3.89         53        1.97         27        7.33
Banana and Others        14.92        13        19.05        17        51.49         45       29.06         25     114.51
Total                  16.24        12        21.31        16        61.27         46       33.66         26     132.48
(DX
Meat -                     45.70                 191.61               1,168.01               1,073.53               2,478.85 ~   -
Milk ('000 lt)                                   730.01          8    4,450.50         48    4,090.50         44   9,271.01
1/ Model 1 is pork; Models 2,3 and 4 are beef.
December 29, 1980



AiLNX 1
- 65 -                                    Table 14
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Cost per Hectare for Annuals, Without and With Project
Sucres
Maize             Beans           Peanuts            Rice            Yucca
Activities            Withouit  With   Without  With   Without  With   Without  With   Without  With
Land Preparation       1,000   1,000      500      500   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
Seeds or Cuttings        300      300     350      350   1,800   1,800       350     350      500     500
Alignment and Stakes                                                                          700      700
Planting                 600      600     600      600      600     600   1,200   1,200   1,300   1,300
Weeding                1,400   1,400   1,400   1,400   1,200   1,300   1,000   1,000   1,400   1,400
Mounding or Hilling                                      1,000   1,100                      1,000   1,000
Fertílizers                       650            1,050              750              900              950
Fertilization                     200              300              250              250              250
Pesticides                        400              350              350
Pest Control                      200              200              200
Harvesting               400      500     950   1,000   1,150   1,200        700     800   2,000   2,150
Shelling                 400      500
Processing and Drying                     300      400      500     600      250     300
Miscellaneous            100       50     250      150      350      50      450     400      200     200
Total            4,200   5,000   4,750   6,700   8,000   9,600   3,950   5,200   8,100   9,450
October 3, 1980



ANNEX 1
- 66 -                                 Table 15
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Production Costs per ha (Perennials), Without Project
(Sucres)
Items                                                     Mandays        Cost
CACAO
Weeding and Cleaning                                        30         3,000
Sucker Removal and Pruning                                   2.0         200
Harvesting 3.7 qq at 3.5 MD/qq = 13                         13         1,300
Fermenting and Drying                                        0.5          50
Trays and Drying Equipment                                   -           150
Miscellaneous                                                            100
Total Costs                                            45.5      4,800
Present Yield 0.20 mlton at $/47,300 per m/ton                         9,460
Net Return                                                             4,660
COFFEE
Weeding and Cleaning                                        30         3,000
Light Pruning                                                8           800
Harvesting                                                   6           600
Processing                                                   2           200
Total Costs                                            46         4,600
Present Yield 0.20 m/ton at $/35,200 per m/ton                         7,040
Net Return                                                             2,440
BANANA
Weeding and Cleaning                                        20         2,000
Harvesting                                                   4           400
Miscellaneous                                                            100
Total Costs                                            24         2,500
Present Yield 6.0 m/ton at $605 per m/ton                              3,600
Net Return                                                             1,130
September 12, 1980



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cacao Renovation Investment- and Operatíonal Costs Per Hectare
(Sucres)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5          Yeara 6-20
-------    -         -------------------------------------Hand Labor--------_____________________
.ctivitíes/In s . .Mandays               Mandays          Mandays         Mandays          Mandays         Mandays
No.   Costl'    No.  Costl/  No.    CostI'  No.           CostI/ No.    Coat -  No.    Cost?!
Land Preparation            10    1,000
Aligning and Staking         5       500
Holing and Planting         15    1,500
Weeding and Cleaning        30    3,000    25   2,500    3           300    3          300    3         300    3        300
Fertilizing                  2      200      2      200    3         300    3          300    3        300    3         300
Pruning (Formation)          5      500      5      500
Spraying                     2       0       2      200    6         600   12        1,200   16      1,600   16       1,600
Sucker Removal                                             1         100    1          100    1        100    1         100
Eland Pollination                                          4         400    6          600
Harvesting @ 3.5 MD/qq                                     6         600   13        1,300   26      2,600   50       5,000
Fermenting and Drying             __     _       _         0.25       25    0.25        25    0.5        25    0.5       25
Subtotal              69    6,900    34   1.O    23.25   2            38.25   3,825   49.5   4,925   73.5   7,325 >
------------------------------------Inputs----
Amt.    Cost   Amt.   Cost    Amt.    Cost    Amt.    Cost   Amt.    Cost   Amt.    Cost
Cacao Seedlings.3/                2,200             225
Fertilizer S/  7.5/kg    200    1,500   300   2,250    467    3,500    467    3,500    467   3,500    467   3,500
Fungicides S/ 70/kg          8      550    12       875     16    1,125       16    1,125       16   1,125      16   1,125
Sprayer                      1      375             375              250               -               -                -
Fermentation Trays                  -               -         2      500
Drying Area                                         -              1,000               -               -                -
Contingencies                       875             700            1,000               200             200              200
Subtotal                     5,500          4,425            7,375                              4,825           4,825
G==aç==T=tal====ts124:400            Z1825            2:17Q             8A65Q            9,1750         12=115Q
1/  Material and equipment costs for first three years are considered investment costs.
2/  Labor costed at S/ 100 per day.
3/  Seedlings at 1,100 per ha at S/ 2.00 each.
rIN
January 6, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cacao Rehabilitation Investment1/ and Operational Costs Per Hectare
(Sucres)
Development Períod           Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4            Year 5         Yeará 6-20
__________________------------------Hand Labor--------------------------------------
Activitíes/Inputs           Mandays         Mandays        Mandays          Mandays            Mandays          Mandays
No.   Costi/  No.    Cost.i/  No.   Costi¡  No.    Cost2/    No.          Cost-/  No.    Costi/
Cleaning (weed control)   3        300    3         300    3       300    3         300       3         300    3         300
Sucker Removal              1      100    1         100    1       100    1         100       1        100    1          100
Fertilizing                 3      300    3         300    3       300    3         300       3         300    3         300
Hand Pollination            9       900    9        900    9       900    9         900       9         900    9         900
Spraying (8)               16    1,600   16       1,600   16    1,600   16       1,600      16       1,600   16        1,600
Harvesting @ 3.5 MD/qq   17.5  1,750   35         3,500   42    4,200   45.5   4,550        45.5    4,550   45.5    4,550
Fermentation and Drying   0.5        50    0.5       50    0.5      50    0.5        50       0.5        50    0.5        50
Subtotal             50.0  5,000   67.5   6,750   74.5  7,450   78          7,800      78       7,800   78        7,800
cxs
-------------------------------------Inputs-------------------------------------------
Amt.  Cost    Amt.   Cost    Amt.  Cost    Amt.   Cost           Amt.    Cost    Amt.    Cost
Fertilizer @ S/ 7.5/kg    467  3,500    467   3,500    467  3,500    467   3,500              467    3,500    467    3,500
Fungicides @ S/ 70/kg        16  1,125      16   1,125       16  1,125      16   1,125         16    1.125      16    1,125
Sprayer                       1    500              500            -                -                  _                 _
Fermentatíon Trays            2    250              250
Drying Area                         500             500            -                _                   _                _
Contingencies                    1,000            1,000            250              250                 250              250
Subtotal                    6,875           6,875          4,875            4,875               487 5             4,875
Grand Total Costs          11-,.875        1_6512 325                      12 67                2651267
1/ Material and equipment costs for first two years are considered investment costs.
2/ Labor costed at S/ 100 per day.
February 5, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Rehabilitation Investmentl/ and Operational Costs Per Hectare
(Sucres)
Development Period               Year 1             Year 2            Year 3             Year 4           Years 5-20
Development P                  eid----          -Hand Labor-----------------------------------
Activities/Inputs               Mandays            Mandays           Mandays            Mandays            Mandays
No.   Cost-/      No.   Cost±w'    No.   Cost./         No.   Cost2/      No.   Co  2
Weeding and Cleaning           25    2,500        25    2,500       20    2,000        20    2,000        20    2,000
Pruning                        10    1,000         5      500        2       200        2       200        2       200
Fertilizing                     2       200        2       200       2       200        2       200        2       200
Spraying - Pest Control         2       200        2      200        2       200        2       200        2       200
Harvesting                      9       900       14    1,400       18    1,800        18    1,800        18    1,800
Processing Beans                1       100        1       100       2       200        2       200        2       200
Miscellaneous                   4       400        4       400       4       400        4       400        4       400
Subtotal                  53    5,300       50    5,00 50               05              5,000        50    5,000
_______________------------------Inputs------------------------_____________
Amt.    Cost      Amt.    Cost       Amt.    Cost      Amt.    Cost       Amt.    Cost
Fertilizers                   375    2,250       375    2,250      375    2,250       375    2,250       375    2,250
Pesticides                              200                200               200                200                200
Sprayer                         1       500               500                 -                  -
Drying Area                             500                500            
Contingencies                           800                800               200                200                200
Subtotal                        4,250              4,250              2,650             2,650              2,650
Grand Total Costs               91550               ____ 7965O                           7 650             7 650
1/ Material and equipment costs for first two years are considered investment costs.
2/ Labor costed at S/ 100 per manday.
February 5, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coffee Renovation Investment1/ and Operational Costs Per Hectare
(Sucres)
Year 1        Year 2         Year 3        Year 4        Year 5        Years 6-20
Development PeriodHn ao
-------------------------------- Hand Labor-----------------------------------~~~
Mandays       Mandays        Mandays       Mandays        Mandays        Mandays
Activities/Inputs             No.  Cost1   No.  Cost2/   No.   ost2    No.  Cost/    No.  Cost-1   No.  Cost/
Land Preparation              10   1,000
Aligning and Staking           5     500
Holing and Planting           15   1,500      2     200
Weeding and Cleaning          30   3,000    25   2,500    25   2,500    20   2,000    20   2,000    20   2,000
Fertilizing                    2     200     2      200     2     200      2     200     2      200     2      200
Spraying - Pest Control        2     200     2      200     2     200      2     200     2      200     2      200
Pruning                        0     -       2      200                    2     200                    1      100
Harvesting                                                                20   2,000    20   2,000    20   2,000          ¡
Processing Beans                                                           2     400     2      400     2      400
Miscellaneous                  2     200      2     200     2     200      3     300      3     300      3     300
Subtotal                 66   6,600    35   3,500    31   j,10.    51   5,300     49   5,100    40   5,200
--  - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -Inputs - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - -
Amt.     Cost   Amt.   Cost   Amt.   Cost   Amt.   Cost   Amt.   Cost   Amt.   Cost
Seedling Cost              1,100   3,300   110      325
Fertilizers                  125     900   125      900   375   2,250   375   2,250   375   2,250   375   2,250
Pesticides                           300            300           300            400            400            400
Sprayer                        1     375            375           250             -              -              -
Drying Area                           _              -          1,000            200            200            200
Contingencies                      1,200            600           800            200            200            200
Subtotal                      5,075         2,500          4,600          30050          3,050    0         H       3
Grand Total Costs            12 675         6_000          7_700          8.350          8,150          8a250   
1/ Material and equipment costs for first three years are considered investment costs.
2/ Labor costed at SI 100 per manday.
February 5, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banana Rehabilitation Investmentl/ and Operational Costs Per Hectare
(Sucres)
Year 1            Year 2            Year 3            Year 4          Years 5-20
Development Períad             -                                   Hand Labor-----------------------
Mandays           Mandays           Mandys            Mandays            Mandays
Actívities/Inputs             No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost        No.    Cost
Removal of Suckersi/          10      1,000       8       800       5       500       5        500       5       500
Plantín 4/                    15      1,500      4        400       0       -         O        -         O       -
Weeding and Cleaning          16      1,600      16     1,600      16     1,600      16      1,600      16     1,600
Fertilízing                     2       200       3       300       3        300      3        300       3       300
Spraying                       2        200      3        300       3       300       3        300       3       300
Harvesting                     3        300      4        400       5       500       5        500       5       500
Miscellaneous                   1       100       1       100       1        100      1        100       1       100
Subtotal                 49     4,900      39      39003 33                     333033                    3300
--------------------------- ~ ---Inputs----____________
Inputs            Inputs            Inputs            Inputs             Inputs
Amt.    Cost      Amt.    Cost      Amt.    Cost      Amt.    Cost       Amt.    Cost
Fertiíizers @ SI 7.55/kg      86        650               700               700                700               700
Pesticides                              200               300               300                300               300
Contingencies                           300               325               100                100               100
Subtotal                        1,150              1,325             1,100             1,100              12100
Grand Total=Costs               6J3050             5_225             4_,400            4_400              4_ 400
1/ Materíal costs for the first two years are considered investment costs.                                              u,
2/ Labor costed at SI 100 day.
3/ Securíng plant material (corms) or selected suckers in first year, pruning thereafter.                                 H
4/ Including cleaning and preparation of planting material.
January 6, 1981



- 72 -                                  ANNEX
ECUADOR                                 Table 21(a)
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development On A Medium-Scale'F9arm J
With Project
Without                                     Year    -
Project        1         2         3      -4            5         6
Herd Composition (No.)
Cows                                8           11        11        11        11        11        11
Calves                              5            7         7         7         7         7         7
Heifers   8-20 mo                   2            2         3         3         3         3         3
Heifers  20-32 mo                   2            2         2         3         3         3         3
Steers    8-20 mo                   2            2         3         3         3         3         3
Steers   20-32 mo                   2            2         2         3         3         3         3
Bul1s                               1            1         1         1         1         1         1
Total                         22          72        2J9
AU                            15          18        19        21        21        21         21
Deaths                         1           1         1          1         1         1         1
Sales
CuT1 Cows                           2            2         2         2         3         3         3
Steers/Bulls                        2            2         2         2         3         3         3
Total                          4           4         4         _         6         6          6
Purchases
I.C. Heifers                                    3          -         -         -         -         -
Co-Efficients
Death Rate(%)                       5            4         3         3         3         3         3
Calving Rate (%)                   62           63        64        64        64        64        64
Cows Milked                         6           YO        10        10        10        lO        10
Effective liters/day                2.5          2.8       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
Effective lactation (days)         80           85       120       140       150       150       150
Carrying Capacity (AU)             15           20        21        21        21        21        21
Family (6.5) Consumption per
person                            0.5         0.6        0.65      0.70      0.70      0.70      0.70
Production--Volume and Value
Miik Produced (liters)          1,200       2,380    3,60o   4,200    4,500    4,500    4,500
Milk Value (US$)                  240         476        720       840       900       900       900
Family Consumption (liters)  1,186          1,423    1,542    1,660    1,660         1,660    1,660
Milk Sales (lIters)                14/2       957    2,058    2,540    2,840    2,840    2,840
Beef (liveweight/kgq>.3         1,540       1,576    1,600    1,630    2,460    2,460    2,460
Carcass Equivalent wt/kg          739          756       768       782    1,181      1,181     1,181
Carcass Value (US$)             1,626       1,663      1,690    1,720    2,598    2,598    2.598
Total Value (US$)               1,866       2,139    2,410    2,560    3,498    3,498    3,498
Operating Costs
Labor (manday$/cost)            160/640    190/760   200/800  210/840  230/920  230/920 230/920
Other Inputs 9/                      ISO         175        200       250       300        300     300
Total (US$)                    790         935      1,000      1,090    1,220    1,220   1,220
Total  Investment Cost              -          3_000        -              - _            -
Total Cost (US$)               790       3,935    1f000         ,090    1,220    1,220   1,220
Total Net Value (US$)        1,076      (1,796)     1,410    1,470    2,278    2,278   2,278
1/  Approximately 20 ha in pasture.
21  Liquid milk or cottage cheese.
3/  Price $2.20/kg.
4/ Veterinary supplies, fertilizers, minerals, herbicides, etc.
September 16, 1980



ANNEX 1
- 73 -                                  Table 21(b)
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development Model For A Medium-Scale Farm
Investment Plan
Inputs                       Unit        Unit Cost         No.        - - Year 1 - -
(Sucres)                   (Sucres)   (US$)
I.C. Heifers                 Each         10,500           3           31.500    1,260
Tools and Equipment                          -             -            1,850        74
Corral                                    10,000           0.75         7,500       300
Farm Building                 "           10,000           0.45         4,500       180
Gravel                       M3               90          14            1,260        50
Vet./Minerals                AU               93          18            1,674        66
Pasture Improvement          ha              175          20            3,500       140
Fencing                      km           20,000           0.8        16,000        640
Water Installation           Each          4,500           0.5          2,250        90
Contingencies                                                          5,000        200
Total                                                            75,034    3,000
1/  Assuming 20 ha in pasture.
October 8, 1980



74 -                                      ANNEX 1
Table 21(c)
ECUADOR
PUERTO ¡LA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock lnvestment. Operational Costs and Income
For Farm Models II, IHI and IV
With Project
Without       - - - - - - - - - - -  Year  - - - - - - - - - - -
Progect         1            2           3           4            5
-   -  -   -   -   -  -   -  -   -  -   -  -  -    -    -  (Sucres)  -    -   -   -    -    -   -  -  _
Model II (11 to 20 ha) 1/
lnvestment Cost                                 13,125        -           -            -           -
Operating Costs
Labor                           2,800          3,325       3,500        3,675       4,025       4,025
Other Inputs                      656            766         875        1,094       1,313        1,313
TOTAL                      3,456        17,216       4,375        4,769       5J338        5.338
Income from sales
Milk                            1,050          2,083       3,150       3,675        3,938       3,938
Meat                            7.114          7.276       7,394       7.525       11,366      11,366
TOTAL                     8,164          9,359      10,544       11,200      15,304       15,304
Net Value                         4,708         (7,857)      6,169        6,431       9,966       9,966
Model III (21 - 50 ha) 2/
lnvestment Cost                                 37,500        -            -           -           -
Operating Costs
Labor                           8,000          9,500      10,000       10,500      11,500      11,500
Other Inputs                    1,875          2.188       2.500        3,125       3,750       3,750
TOTAL                                   49,188       12,500      13,625      15,250       15,250
Incorne from sales
Milk                            3,000          5,950       9,000       10,500      11,250      11,250
Meat                           20,325         20.787      21,125      21,500       32,475      32,475
TOTAL                    23,325         26,737      30,125       32,000      43,725       43,725
Net Value                        13,450        (22,451)     17,625       18,375      28,475      28,475
Model IV (51 - 100 ha) 3/
lnvestment Cost                               112,500         -           -            -           -
Operating Costs
Labor                          24,000         28,500      30,000      31,500       34,500      34,500
Other Inputs                    5,625          6,563       7.500       9,375       11,250      11,250
TOTAL                    29,625        147,563      37,500       40.875      45,750       45,750
Income from sales
Milk                            9,000         17,850      27,000      31,500       33,750      33,750
Meat                           60.975        62,363       63,375      64.500       97.425      97,425
TOTAL                    69.975         80,213      90,375       96,000    131,175    131,175
Net Value                        40,350        (67,350)     52,875      55,125       85,425      85,425
1/   3.5 ha in pasture.
2/  10.0 ha in pasture.
3/  30.0 ha ín pasture.
September 29, 1980.



- 75 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 22
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farmers' Swine Fattening Model
- - - - - - - - - -  Year   - - - - - - - - - -
1         2          3          4          5
-   - - - - - - - -   Sucres  - - - - - - - - - -
Investments
Shed                        8,250      -          -          -
Fencing                     6,400      -          -          -
Pasture Improvement         1,000       -         -          -
Water Facilities              450      -          -          -
Tools and Equipment           400      -          -          -
Total                16,500
Operating Costs
Piglets 20 at S/.925       18,500    18,500    18,500    18,500    18,500
Concentrates               14,560    14,560    14,560    14,560    14,560
Bananas and Plantains       7,200      7,200     7,200      7,200      7,200
Sanitation and Health       1,600     1,600      1,600      1,600      1,600
Labor                       7,200      7,200     7,200      7,200      7,200
Maintenance and Other       1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000      1,000
50,060    50,060    50,060    50,060    50,060
Total Costs                  66,560    50,060    50,060    50,060    50,060
Sales                        26,600    53,200    53,200    53,200    53,200
Net Returns                 (39,960)    3,140       3,140     3,140      3,140
Net Returns
excluding labor            (32,360)   10,340    10,340    10,340    10,340
February 17, 1981



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Market and Economic Prices 1
S/  per Metric Ton
Market       ---------------------Economic Prices-------------------
Prices
1980       1981   1982-1983        1984   1985-1986        1994
Corn                    4,149       3,250       3,975      3,975       4,150       4,150       4,200
Peanuts                 9,715       9,715       9,715      9,715       9,715       9,715       9,715
Beans                   8,289       8,289       8,289      8,289       8,289       8,289       8,289                 o
Rice                    5,971       5,971       5,971      5,971       5,971       5,971       5,971
Cassava                 1,822       1,822       1,822      1,822       1,822       1,822       1,822
Cacao                  43,516      51,075     50,250      47,325      47,325      47,325      47,325
Coffee                 32,384      37,450     36,675      36,675      36,675      37,325      38,000
Banana                    557         725         725         725        725         675         625
Milk (I0 Liters)        5,000       5,000       5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000       5,000
Beef Carcass           55,000      55,000     55,000      55,000      55,000      55,000      55,000
Pork Carcass           39,375      39,375     39,375      39,375      39,375      39,375      39,375               |B
1D A1
1/ All príces in constant 1980 value.



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL NO.1, 1OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
(US$DOLLARS)
W/PROJ.           1           2           3           4            5           6           7           15
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
ANNUALS                      67.18      1 33.99     225.27      374.44       415.02      432.58      432.58       432.58      432.58
PERENNIALS                  718.50      587.45      543.62      893 .36     1229.95     1471.21     1713.27      1914.04     2187.28
PIGS                          00.0    1064.00      2128.00     2128.00      2128.00     2128.00     2128.00      2128.00     2128.00
TOTAL INFLOW                785.68     1785.44     2896.89     3395.80      3772.97     4031.79     4273.85      4474.62     4747.86
INVESTMENTS
PERENNIALS                    00.0      250.00      414.00      239.50         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        08.0
PIGS                          00.0      660.00        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
HOUSE INPROVMNT.              00.0      200.00      200.00        00.0         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT              00.0     1110.00      614.00      239.50         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
OPERATING COSTS
ANNUALS                      66.40      142.32      199.24      284.34       284.34      284.34      284.34       284.34      2B4.34
PERENNIALS                  476.00      574.00      535.00      684.00       922.50      940.50      990.50       990.50      990.50 <
PIíS                          00.0    1714.40      1714.40     1714.40      1714.40     1714.40     1714.40      1714.40     1714.40
OPERATIONAL COSTS           542.40     2430.72     2448.64     2682.74      2921.24     2939.24     2989.24      2989.24     2989.24
TOTAL OUTFLOW               542.40     3540.72     3062.64     2922.24      2921.24     2939.24     2989.24      2989.24     2989.24
BENEFITS BEFORE FINAN.
TOTAL                       243.28    -1755.28     -165.75      473 .56      851.73     1092.55     1284.61      1485.38     1758.62
INCREMENTAL                   00.0   -1998.57      -409.04      230.28       808.45      849.27     1041.33      1242.1 0    1515.34
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                     00.0      999.00      552.60      215.55         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
SHORT TERM                    00.0      420.00      130.00      136.00         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                     00.0       59.94      153.04      199.13       212.06      212.06      212.06       455.04        00.0
SHORT TERM                    00.0      470.40      145.60      152.32         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
NET FINANCING 1/              00.0      896.87      423.14       71.59      -117.27     -101.15      -87.16      -161.08        00.0
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANC
TOTAL                       243.28     -858.41      257 .39     545.15       734.46      991 .40    1197.45      1324.30     1758.62
INCREMENTAL                   00.0   -1101.69        14.10      301.87       491 .18     748.11      954.17      1081.01     1515.34
FAMILY LABOR INCOME         485.50     1111.00     1205.35     1223.98      1321.48     1343.35     1405.85      1405.85     1405.85
ON FARM CONSUMP.             67.18      133,00      134.00      135.00       140.00      150.00      150.00       150.00      150.00
CASH FLOW                   661.60      119.59     1328.74     1634.13      1915.94     2184.75     2453.30      2580.15     3014.47
1/NET FINANCING ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PR OJECT
MODEL NO.2 11-2OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
(US $DO LLAR S]
W/PROJ.           1           2           3           4            5           6           7           15
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
ANNUALS                     225.48      351.05      512.65      748.88      830.04       865.16      865.16      865.16       865.16
PERENNIALS                 1416.97     1172.47     1134.27     1761.34     2445.29      2930.11     3400.07     3790.49      4361.01
CATTLE                      326.00      374.00      422.00      448.00      612.00       612.00      612.00      612.00       612.00
TOTAL INFLOW               1968.46     1897.53     2068.93     2958.22     3887.32      4407.27     4677.23     5267.64      5838.17
INVESTMENTS
PERENNIALS                    00.0      422.00      664.80      512.30        00.0         0.0         0 0 O       00.0         00.0
CATTLE                        00.0      525.00        00.0        00.0         00.0        0000        00.0        00.0         00.0
HOUSE INPROVMNT.              00.0      240.00      240.00        00.0         00.0        00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT              80.0     1187.00      904.80      512.30         00.0        00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0
OPERATING COSTS
ANNUALS                     222.18      369.44      454.54      568.68       568.68      568.68      568.68      568.68       568.68
PERENNIALS                  905.20     1070.40      993 .60    1308.10     1800.80      1852.40     1980.00     1980.00      1980.00
CATTLE                      138.00      163.00      175.00      190.00       213.00      213.00      213.00       213.00      213.00
OPERATIONAL COSTS          1265.38     1602.84     1623.14     2066.78     2582.48      2634.08     2761.68     2761.68      2761.68
TOTAL OUTFLOW              1265.38     2789.84     2527.94     2579.08     2582.48      2634.08     2761.68     2761.68      2761.68
BENEFITS BEFORE FINAN.
TOTAL                       703.08     -892.31     -459.01      379.14     1304.84      1773.19     2115.55     2505.96      3076.49
INCREMENTAL                   00.0   -1595.39    -1162.09      -323.93      601.77      1070.11     1412.47     1802.89      2373.41
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM?                    00.0    1068.30       814.32      461 .07       00.0         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0
SHORT TERM                    08.0      400.00      150.00      190.00         00.0        00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                     00.0       64.10      177.06      253 .58     281 .24      281.24      281.24      650.37         00.0
SHORT TERM                    00.0      448.00      168.00      212.80        00.0         00.0        00.0         00.0        00.0
NET FINANCING 1/              00.0      964.98      664.59      275.73     -155.53      -134.15     -115.59     -230.23         80.0
NET 8ENEFIT AFTER FINANC
TOTAL                       703.08       72.67      205.57      654.87     1149.32      1639.04     1999.96      2275.73     3076.49
INCREMENTAL                   00.0    -630.41      -497.50      -48.21      446.24       935.96     1296.88     1572.66      2373.41
FAMILY LABOR INCOME         986.00     1425.75     1525.60     15B9.98     1799.23      1862.10     2021.60     2021.60      2021.60
ON FARM CONSUMP.             80.00      150.00      155.00      160.00      160.00       160.00      160.00      160.00       160.00
CASH FLOW                  1609.08     134.42      1576.17     2084.84      2788.54     3341 .14    3861 .56     4137.33     4938.09
1G  I
1/NET FINANCING AOJU9TED FOR INFLATION                                                                 



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
MODEL NO.3 21-5OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
(U SS DO LLAR S)
W/PROJ.            1             2            3            4            5             6            7           15
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
ANNUALS                       225.4B       540.95        542.12       748.88       830.04       865.16       865.16        865.16       865.16
PERENNIALS                   2598.98      2330.61      2170.15       3340.21      4699.52      5647.92      6533.12       7264.13      8412.47
CATTLE                        933.00      1069.00      1205.00       1280.00      1749.00      1749.00      1749.00       1749.00      1749.00
TOTAL INFLOW                 3757.46      3940.57       4017.27      5369.09      7278.56      8262.08       9147.28      9878.29    11026.63
INVESTMENTS
PERENNIALS                      00.0       736.20      1148.60       1020.80         00.0         00.0          00.0         00.0          00.0
CATTLE                          00.0      1500.00          00.0         00.0         00.0          00.0         00.0         00.0          00.0
HOUSE INPROVMNT.                00.0       380.00        380.00         00.0         00.0          00.0         00.0         00.0          00.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT                00.0      2616.20      1528.60       1020.80         00.0          00.0         00.0         00.0          00.0
OPERATING COSTS
ANNUALS                       222.18       568.68        568.68       5S8.68       568.68       568.68        568.68       568.68        568.68
PERENNIALS                   1626.00      2045.20      1832.80       2441.20      3439.00      3531.00      3768.20       3768.20      3768.20 '0
CATTLE                        395.00       467.00        500.00       545.00       610.00       610.00        610.00       610.00       610.00
OPERATIONAL COSTS            2243.18      3080.88       2901.48      3554.88      4617.68      4709.68       4946.88      4946.88      4946.88
TOTAL OUTFLOW                2243.18      5697.08       4430.08      4575.68      4617.68      4709.68       4946.88      4946.8B      4946.88
BENEFITS 8EFORE FINAN.
TOTAL                        1514.28    -1756.51       -412.B1        793.41      2660.88      3552.40       4200.40      4931.41      6079.75
INCREMENTAL                     00.0    -3270.79    -1927.10         -720.87      1146.60      2038.1 2      2686.12      3417.13      4565.46
FINANCING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                       00.0      2092.96      1222.88        816.64         00.0         00.0          00.0         00.0          00.0
SHORT TERM                      00.0       600.00        400.00       420.00         00.0          00.0         00.0         00.0          00.0
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                       00.0       125.58       324.53        446.90       495.90       495.90        495.90      1146.76          00.0
SHORT TERM                      00.0       672.00        448.00       470.40         00.0         00.0          00.0         00.0          00.0
NET FINANCING 1/                00.0      1912.58        933 .43      479.78      -274.23      -236.54      -203.81       -405.95          00.0
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANC
TOTAL                        1514.28       156.07        520.62      1273.19      2386.65      3315.86       3996.58      4525.46      6079.75
INCREMENTAL                     00.0    -1358.21       -993.67       -241 .09      872.37      1801 .57      2482.3 0     3011.17      4565.46
FAMILY LABOR INCOME          1848.50      2740.00       2770.10      2927.10      3375.10      3487.10       3783.60      3783 .60     3783 .60
ON FARM CONSUMP.               80.00       150.00        155.00       160.00       160.00       160.00        160.00       160.00       160.00
CASH FLOW                    3282.78      2746.07       3135.72      4040.29      5601.75      6642.96       7620.18      8149.06      9703.35
1/NET FINANCING ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
------------------------------------------
MODEL NO.4 51-10OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
( US $DO LLAR S)
W/PROJ.            1            2           3            4            5            6            7           15
GROSS VALUE OF PRODUCT.
ANNUALS                      450.97       540.95       642.12       74B.88       830.04       865.16       865.16       865.16       865.16
PERENNIALS                  4251.34      3925.82      3809.25      4897.69      6787.54      8883.51    10241.99    11346.45    13025.97
CATTLE                      2799.00      3208.00      3615.00      3840.00      5247 .00     5247.00      5247.00      5247.00      5247.00
TOTAL INFLOW                7501.31      7674.78      8066.38      9486.57    12864.58    14995.67    16354.15    17458.61    19138.13
INVESTMENTS
PERENNIALS                      00.0      602.20      1011.00       895.50         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
CATTLE                          00.0     4500.00         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
HOUSE INPROVMNT.                00.0      530.00       530.00         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT                00.0     5632.20      1541 .00      895.50         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
OPERATING COSTS
ANNUALS                      444.36       568.68       56B.68       568.68       566.68       568.68       568.68       568.68       568.68
PERENNIALS                  2706.00      2894.40      2804.80      3419.40      4824.80      5488.50      5834.50      5834.50      5834.50
CATTLE                      1185.00      1402.00      150 0.0      1635.00      1830.00      1830.00      1830.00      1830.00      1830.00
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-   - - -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - - - -_  _ _ _ - - - - -_ _ - - -_ _  _ _ _ _ _ - - - - - -   - - - - - - -c-  -  -   -  -  -    -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
OPERATIONAL COSTS           4335.36      4865.08      4873.48      5623.08      7223.48      7887.18      8233.18      8233.18      8233.18
TOTAL OUTFLOW               4335.36    10497.28       6414.48      6518.58      7223.48      7887.18      8233.18      8233.18      8233.18
BENEFITS BEFORE FINAN.
TOTAL                       3165.95    -2822.50       1651.90      2967.99      5641.10      7106.49      8120.97      9225.43    10904.95
INCREMENTAL                    00.0   -5988.45    -1514.05         -197.96      2475.15     3942.54       4955.02      6059.48      7739.00
FI NANC ING
LOAN RECEIPTS
LONG TERM                      00.0      4505.76      1232.80       716.40         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
SHORT TERM                      00.0.     850.00       550.00       550.00         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
LOAN PAYMENTS
LONG TERM                      00.0       337.93       768.32       914.51       968.24       968.24       968.24     1926.16          00.0
SHORT TERM                     00.0       977.50       632.50       632.50         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0         00.0
NET FINANCING 1/               00.0      4086.63       578.67        47.70      -535.44     -461 .85     -397.95      -681.86          00.0
NET BENEFIT AFTER FINANC
TOTAL                       3165.95      1264.1 2     2230.57      3015.69      5105.66      6646.64      7723.02      8543.57    10904.95
INCREMENTAL                    00.0   -1901.83        -935.38      -150.26     1939.71      3480.69      4557.07      5377.62      7739.00
FAMILY LABOR INCOME         3573.00      4301.00      4531.60      4801.48      5643.10     6148.35       6580.85      6560.85      6580.85
ON FARM CONSUMP.              90.00       160.00       165.00       175.00       175.00       175.00       175.00       175.00       175.00
CASH FLOW                   6648.95      5405.12      6597.17      7642.16    10573.76    12619.99    141 28.87    14949.42    17310.80
1/NET FINANCING AOJUSTEO FOR INFLATION



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL INCREMENTAL DEMAND FOR LABOR
MANDAYS
W/PROJ.             1            2            3             4            5             6            7            15
ANNUALS
MODEL 1                            00.0          836          2749         6145        10011         13997        18044         21969        38358
MODEL 2                            00.0          717          2355         5267         8582         11998        15465         18830        32848
MODEL 3                            00.0         1515          4992        1118D        18244         25521        32903         40082        69898
MODEL 4                            00.0          465          1526         3414          5568         7794        10054         12254        21369
TOTAL DEMAND                     00.0         3535        11622         26006        42405         59310        76465         93134       162472
PERENNIALS
MODEL 1                            00.0         3569          8853        13395        19809         27140        34956         43189        83351
MODEL 2                            0a.0         5155         12336        19396        29829         42000        55923         70785       146382
MODEL 3                            00.0        22980         51336        80986       126291        178267       237144        300646       626749  -
MODEL 4                             00.0        4163         10469        18145        33129         54706        81109        109549       279056
TOTAL DEMAND                     00.0        35867        82994        131924       209057        302113       409132        524169      1137538
CATTLE
MODEL 1                             00.0        5976         13608        21240        29736         38232        45864         53496        78192
MODEL 2                            00.0          373           975         1736          2833         4018          5168         6335        11393
MODEL 3                            00.0         2250          5910        10540        17205         24415        31415         38535        69265
MODEL 4                            00.0         2070          5415         9645        15765         22380        28785         35340        63525
TOTAL DEMAND                     00.0        10669        25908         43161        65539         69045       111232        133706       222375
TOTAL MANDAYS
TOTAL                              00.0        50070       120524        201091       317002        450468       596829        751010      1522384
1t1I
r'4 1-



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL NO.1, 1OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
DEMAND FOR LABOR
MANOAYS
W/PROJ.            1             2            3            4            5         6-11            15
ANNUALS
MAIZ                              4.40          7.48        10.12        14.52        14.52        14.52         14.52        14.52
BEANS                              2.40         3.84         5.28         7.68         7.68          7.68         7.68         7.68
PEANUTS                           3.00          5.40         7.20        10.20        10.20        10.20         10.20        10.20
RICE                              1.75          2.80         4.20         5.95         5.95          5.95         5.95          5.95
CASSAVA                            3.55         5.68         8.52        12.07        12.07         12.07        12.07        12.07
SUB TOTAL ANNUALS                15.10         25.20        35.32        50.42        50.42         50.42        50.42        50.42
PERENNIALS
OLD CACAO                        31.00         15.5          0.0 0.00     0.00          .00           .00         0.00         0.00
CACAO REHABILIT.                   0.00        12.50        33.75        37.25        39.00         39.00        39.00        39.00
CACAO RENOVATEO                    0.00        17.25        17.00        11.63        19.38         24.75        36.75        36.75
OLD COFFEE                       32.00         16.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          -.00         0.00         0.00
COFFEE REHABIT.                    0.00        13.25        26.50        25.00        25.00         25.00        25.00        25.00
COFFEE RENOVATED                   0.00        16.50        17.50        15.50        25.50         24.50        25.00        25.00
OLD BANANA                       19.00          9.50         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
BANANA REHABLT.                    0.00        24.50        39.00        33.00        33.00         33.00        33.00        33.00
SUB TOTAL PERENN.                82.00       125.00        133.75       122.38       141 .88      146.25        158.75       158.75
CATTLE
SUB TOTAL CATTLE                   0.00        72.00        72.00        72.00        72.00         72.00        72.00        72.00
TOTAL SUPPLY &DEMAND
LABOR DEMAND                     97.10       222.20        241.07       244.80       264.30       268.67        281 .17      281 .17
FAMILY SUPPLY                   479.00       479.00        479.00       479.00       479.00       479.00        479.00       479.00
STATUS 1/                       381 .90      256 B0        237 .93      234 .21      214 .71      210.33        197.63       197.83    A
1/ NEGATIVE FIGURES INDICATE HIRED LABOR
POSITIVE FIGURES INDICATE FAMILY MANDAYS SURPLUS



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL NO.2 11-2OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
DEMAND FOR LABOR
MANDAYS
W/PROJ.            1            2            3            4             5         6-11           15
ANNUALS
MAIZ                             14.52        18.92        23.32        29.04        29.04         29.04        29.04        29.04
BEANS                             7.68        10.08        12.48        15.36        15.36         15.36        15.36        15.36
PEANUTS                          10.20        13.20        16.20        20.40        20.40         20.40        20.40        20.40
RICE                              5.95         7.70         9.45        11.90        11.90         11.90        11.90        11.90
CASSAVA                          12.07        15.62        19.17        24.14        24.14         24.14        24.14        24.14
SUB TOTAL ANNUALS                15.10        25.20        35.32        50.42        50.42         50.42        50.42        50.42
PERENNIALS
OLD CACAO                        74.40        46.50        24.80         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
CACAO REHABILIT.                  0.00        20.00        54.00        69.40        93.60         93.60        93.60        93.60
CACAO RENOVATED                   0.00        34.50        30.60        30.23        50.38         64.35        95.55        95.55
OLD COFFEE                       51.20        25.60         0.00         0.00          0.0 0        0.00         0.00         0.00
COFFEE REHABIT.                   0.00        21.20        42.40        40.00        40.00         40.00        40.00        40.00
COFFEE RENOVATEO                  0.00        26.40        24.50        21.70        35.70         34.30        35.00        35.00
OLD BANANA                       28.50        13.30         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
BANANA REHABLT.                   0.00        39.20        56.50        49.50        49.50         49.50        49.50        49.50
SUB TOTAL PERENN.               154.10       226.70       234.B0       230.83       269.18        281 .75      313.65       313.65
CATTLE
SUB TOTAL CATTLE                 28.00        33.25        35.00        36.75        40.25         40.25        40.25        40.25
TOTAL SUPPLY &DEMAND                                                                                                                   D M
LABOR DEMAND                    197.20       285.15       305.12       318 .00      359.85       372.42        404.32       404.32    n
FAMILY SUPPLY                   479.00       479.00       479.00       479.00       479.00       479.00        479.00       479.00
STATUS 1/                       281 .80      193.85       173.88       161 .01      119.16       106.58         74.68        74.68
1/ NEGATIVE FIGURES INDICATE HIRED LABOR
POSITIVE FIGURES INDICATE FAMILY MANDAYS SURPLUS



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL NO.3 21-5OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
DEMAND FOR LABOR
MANDAYS
W/PROJ.             1            2            3             4            5         6-11            15
ANNUALS
MAIZ                              14.52        29.04         29.04        29.04        29.04         29.04         29.04        29.04
BEANS                              7.68        15.36         15.36        15.36         15.36        15.36         15.36        15.36
PEANUTS                           10.20        20.40         20.40        20.40         20.40        20.40         20.40        20.40
RICE                               5.95        11.90         11.90        11.90        11.90         11.90         11.90        11.90
CASSAVA                           12.07        24.14         24.14        24.14         24.14        24.14         24.14        24.14
SUB TOTAL ANNUALS                 15.10        25.20         35.32        50.42         50.42        50.42         50.42        50.42
PERENNIALS
OLD CACAO                        145.70        96.10         46.50         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
CACAO REHABILIT.                   0.00        40.00        108.00       178.80       187.20        187.20       187.20        187.20
CACAO RENOVATEO                    0.00        62.10         57.80        55.80         93.00       118.80       176.40        176.40
OLD COFFEE                        92.80        70.40         32.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
COFFEE REHABIT.                    0.00        26.50         58.30        80.00        80.00         80.00         80.00        80.00
COFFEE RENOVATED                   0.00        39.60         42.00        52.70         86.70        83.30         85.00        85.00
OLD BANANA                        36.10         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
BANANA REHABLT.                    0.00        93.10         74.10        62.70        62.70         62.70         62.70        62.70
SUB TOTAL PERENN.                274.60       427 .80       41B.70       430.00       509.60        532.00       591 .30       591 .30
CATTLE
SUB TOTAL CATTLE                  80.00        95.00        100.00       105.00       115.00        115.00       115.00        115.00
TOTAL SUPPLY &DEMAND
LABOR DEMAND                     369.70       548.00        554.02       585.42       675.02        697.42       756.72        756.72   >
FAMILY SUPPLY                    479.00       479.00        479.00       479.00       479.00        479.00       479.00        479.00
STATUS 1/                         73.98      -144.64      -140.54       -156.84      -246.44       -268.84      -26B.84       -268.84
1/ NEGATIVE FIGURES INOICATE HIRED LABOR
POSITIVE FIGURES INDICATE FAMILY MANDAYS SURPLUS



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL NO.4 51-10OHa FARM BUDGET ANALYSIS
DEMAND FOR LABOR
MANDAYS
W/PROJ.            1             2            3            4             5         6-11            15
ANNUALS
MAIZ                              29.04        29.04        29.04        29.04         29.04        29.04        29.04         29.04
BEANS                             15.36        15.36        15.36        15.36         15.36        15.36        15.36         15.36
PEANUTS                           20.40        20.40        20.40        20.40         20.40        20.40        20.40         20.40
RICE                              11.90        11.90        11.90        11.90         11.90        11.90        11.90         11.90
CASSAVA                           24.14        24.14        24.14        24.14         24.14        24.14        24.14         24.14
SUB TOTAL ANNUALS                 15.10        25.20        35.32        50.42         50.42        50.42        50.42         50.42
PERENNIALS
OLD CACAO                       217.00        173.60       130.20        86.80         43.40         0.00          0.00         0 00
CACAO REHABILIT.                   0.00        35.00        94.50       156.45        21B.40       273.00       273.00        273.00
CACAO RENOVATED                    0.00        48.30        47.60        48.B3        108.50       173.25       257.25        257.25
OLD COFFEE                      176.00        140.80       105.60        70.40         35.2 0        0.0          0.00          0.00
COFFEE REHABIT.                    0.00        31.80        63.60        90.00       120.00        150.00       150.00        150.00
COFFEE RENOVATED                   0.00        33.00        35.00        46.50        102.00       122.50       125.00        125.00
OLD BANANA                        66.50        53.20        39.90        26.60         13.30         0.00          0.00         0,O0
BANANA REHABLT.                    0.00        34.30        54.60        69.30         92.40       115.50       115.50        115.50
SUB TOTAL PERENN.               459.50        550.00       571 .00      594.H8        733.20       B34.25       920.75        920.75
CATTLE
SUB TOTAL CATTLE                 240.00       285.00       300.00       315.00        345.00       345.00       345.00        345.00
TOTAL SUPPLY &DEMAND
LABOR DEMAND                    714.60        860.20       906.32       960.30      1128.62       1229.67      1316.17       1316.17
FAMILY SUPPLY                   479.00        479.00       479.00       479.00       479.00        479.00       479.00        479.00
STATUS 1/                      -321 .34      -456.84      -492.84      -531 .72     -700.04       -801 .09     -801 .09      -801 .09
1/ NEGATIVE FIGURES INDICATE HIRED LABOR
POSITIVE FIGURES INDICATE FAMILY MANDAYS SURPLUS



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(US$' 000]
1            2           3             4           5            6             7            8           15
PROJECT BENEFITS
AGGREGATE INC. BENEF.          -872.05    -1536.82    -1621.94    -1082.48            5.46      1603.39      3512.57      5518.26    21942.70
PROJECT COSTS
EXTENSION SERVICE              1154.40      1279.30       958.10       722.40       585.90       585.90       547 .50      547.50       547.50
SWINE BREEDING                   55.64        73.07        73.07        73.07        73.07        73.07        73.07        73.07        73.07
FORESTRY NURSERY                  2.80         4.42         6.22        67.13        69.53        69.53        69.53        69.53        69.53
LAND TITLING                    399.20       225.00       225.00       225.00            -            -            -            -             -
FEEDER ROADS                   2030.00      2780.00      2620.00      2050.00            -            -            -            -             -
ROAD MAINTENANCE                350.00       410.00       180.00       240.00       240.00       240.00       240.00       240.00       240.00
PROJECT UNIT                    136 .38      111.42       105.04       104.24       104.24       104.24       104.20       104.20       104.20
TOTAL                          4130.42      4883.21      4167.43     3481.84       1072.74      1072.74      1034.30      1034.30      1034.30
PHISICAL CONTGS.                495.65       585.99       500.09       417.82       128.73       128.73       124.12       124.12       124.12
TOTAL COSTS                    4626.07      5469.20      4667.52      3899.66      1201.47      1201.47      1158.42      1158.42      1158.42
NET PROJECT BENEF.
NET                          -5498.12    -7006.02    -6289.47    -4982.14    -1196.00            401.92      2354.16      4359.85    20784.28
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0%   11183.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   17.8%
ar z
H M
(D X
a-'



- 87 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 27
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
A. Summary of Economic Results
Discount Rate           Net Present Value       Internal Rate of Return
12%               US$11,183.000                     17.8 %
B. Switching Values, and Percentage Exchanges of Major Benefits and Costs
Item                                Percentage Change
Incremental Benefits                        -39%
Price Cacao & Coffee                        -31%
Price Cacao                                 -60%
Price Coffee                                -80%
Inve,rments                                 +51%
Technical Assistance                       +177.9%
Feeder Roads                               +153%
C. Sensitivity Test on Most Possible Events
Assumption                      Economic Rate of Return
Best estimate                               17.8%
Production lagged 1 year                    14.5%
Production lagged 2 years                   11.2%
Benefits reduced by 10%                     16.6%
Benefits reduced by 20%                     15.2%
Benefits reduced by 30%                     13.6%
Investment cost increased by 10%            16.7%
Investment cost increased by 20%            15.6%
Extension services' costs
increased by 30%                          16.9%
Roads cost increased by 30%                 16.3%



- 88 -                         ANNEX 2
ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project Files
1.        Proyecto de Desarrollo Rural Integrado del Area de Influencia de la
Carretera Puerto Ila Chone, 3 Volumes, Astect-Pidelta, No date.
(Project Feasibility study sent to the Bank in October 1979).
2.        Plan de Legalizacion de Tenencia de la Tierra Proyecto Puerto Ila
Chone, IERAC, November 1980.
3.        Working Paper #1, ECUADOR, Puerto Ila Chone Rural Development Project,
The Agricultural Component, F. Sands. 10/6/80.
4.        Working Paper #2, ECUADOR, Puerto Ila Chone Rural Development Project,
Forestry, P. Arnold, August 1980.
5.        Working Paper #3, ECUADOR, Puerto Ila Chone Rural Development Project,
Road Component working paper, S. Miquel, September 17, 1980.
6.        Working Paper # 4, ECUADOR, Puerto Ila Chone Rural Development Project,
Appraisal of the Health Component, J. Saravia, December 1980.
7.        Ecuador, puerto Ila Chone Project, Evaluation of Major Crop Activity,
Russell Desrosiers, November 1, 1980.



ECUADOR
PUERTO ILA-CHONE RURAL DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1982                        1983                         1984                         1985                         1986                         1987
ITEMS                         Unit   Quantity                                                       _                                                                                             _.-
. 1    2      3      4      1       2      3      4      1      2       3      4      1      2       3      4      1      2      3       4      1      2       3      4
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
Buildings and Othea Facilities
Designs and Procurement                     m2       1 990     _             _ 
Construction of Buildings for Extension     m2       1990                                     300                    0%         _
Se-VCe
Constructions and Equ,pment for Forestry   Global                                     10000
Nurseries                                                                  -           0
100%
Equípment of Swine Breeding Centeo        Global
Extension Service
Recruitmentía.d Training of Technical                 68                                                                           111  i   __T                  8
Staff318
1,000                       1,000                         3, 200                       3 200 33,00                                              3, 00
Extension WoV                              Forek    3,200                                              1                            1                            1 ~mmu ~   ~~ ~ 
ExtensionWork           Fdrirers   3,200     _        350         _                 450        _                 450                  ~r                  - 500           800                          450       i t
Agriculture Credit                         Loans    2,700       _              _                                                   4 _  _                                                                                 450
Consultants                              Man!         48                       - _                               -       m                       _¡                       -   _            m       m   m  m
LAND OWNERSHIP LEGALIZATION                    Month
Top<)g,aph ¡e Su rveysjJ                            ~~~45,000                     30,000                       25,000
TopogoaPh ic SuroveVs 1.1                    ha    100,000   _                                        _                                     -
780                          770                         560
Legalization of Land Transactions2J         No-      2,110            E         =u                                                          T  
450                          50320
New Ttites?-1                               No.,    1290
FEEDER ROADS
Civil Works
Final Design                                kmn       101                              145%
65,5                         48                           535                          48
Procurement                               Tenders      4
65.5                          48                          53 5                         48
Constraction                                km        215                                               -                     --
Maintenance
100%
Procurement of Equipment                   Global                              _          _                           I             I              I                                                           240
Maintenar,ce                              km/year    840
HEALTH
Medical Carae                                                                                                                                                                                  u -  -       -  -  -  -  -  --
20%            60%                      ~~~~~~~20%
Procurement and Construction                No.        10                               20%                         60%
of Facilities
Nutrition Program                        Continain 
Watea and Sewao Systems                                                                   2                            4
Water Supply Facilities in Villages         No         10                                                             0
20                   30                           50~~~~~i                                    500
Shallow Welis                                No.      200                                1 _   ii                      T0                                    -
100                  ~~~~~~~200                   300                          200                          200
Sewage U nits                               No.      1 ,000                                               _
SCHOOLS CONSTRUCTION                           Units      60          |                                                  10                                                       15                           15
PROJECT UNIT                                                                                     L
1j 15,000 in 1981
21   280 in 1981
3/     50 in 1981                                                                                                                                                                                                       WorId Bank -22211
Aprll 13, 1981






=                    S             7 /      ,;                      ,,      //                /             C        /         o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  2
L                         - .,  "so5/"    _;E ~~~~~                                                                             ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-V<r .. d. '1
,E'lV     '8¡    JXElCarronr                     S/    7
El Panronsr ~ ~  ~         ~          ~        ~        ~         FISTPH S
t<_  ,9                                                                                                                 b---d !"     zX   i
_.  a<~        a                     (-¾JS  ,f0 %,')                 j                    ''                                     ---t--
p:Son Pal                          a? !    ,-        '  ,~-~a- '5                             SarVaj/ odeNilo 
Y, 1u ah -ant-sDpyo°                                        - ¡.                                                                                           p.  -       N.
- - e</   -s          /                1) g      t      [\  ¡E o-íercanzo                ¡       r       ,1                         r,
Dobione   >            2             <                  r,              /          \rS                       ~~~~ECU_ADOiR
ei / f' ,_-n- VI ~~~~RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
S   0  rosttmenaOA  slLevabe  oSlrio     /    Puer-ollo           JiFIRST  PH-ASE
U- or bo-or
ro                                                                                          rq,-a;  oranznof-
Las< ¡oo doo-rr :3a..aa                                                                                r z-                           -  lentveJq
p45 ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ <a                     Son,roe 'k ao             a          -;door   <-a        fcpe              i--                         =      nrdrol %ocznrer
~~~ <! ~~~Mca                                                                                                                   Y                          liRsrochaNo pasosc-
E ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                                                                       Saro b'odn  can:>/_avdo s, tor
s  -   v   ,<    '   ,'p      _G:     ~          ~                     |,  E                _--^ruerz                                                Lo 1  Pro1nos'_rocdoa
<'~~~~~~                   ~~                           ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                          ~~~ ~~            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Alanac  claganroar,o <_  4 % 
acanroso>Sze0Xzv? s:»aceranst                                                                             Ca pooo                                         -     Mca asac r uood      E   ro /gS_ 7
;t                   _                           79  32        _  rt9V E-b8O                 _ _ _ _ 1                         \t    2   '    W       -   XtiA  65   (''    491x°°~~~~~~~~~~~_____  005.



