                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                     Report No: 55570-NI




                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                         ON A

                      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                          OF

          BROAD BASED ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES PROJECT
                           CREDIT 3903-NI
                            MAY 18, 2004

                                        TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA



                                SEPTEMBER 15, 2010




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASOMIF     Nicaraguan Microfinance Association
FNI        Nicaraguan Financial Institution for Investments
INFOCOOP   Nicaraguan Institute of Cooperatives Development
SIBOIF     Superintendency of Banks and Other Financial Institutions




                      Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                    Country Director:       Laura Frigenti
                    Country Manager         Camille Anne Nuamah
                     Sector Manager:        Lily L. Chu
                   Task Team Leader:        Michael J. Goldberg




                                        2
                                         NICARAGUA
                             Broad Based Access to Financial Services

                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                       Page

RESTRUCTURING PAPER …………………………………………………………… 4

ANNEX 1: Updated Critical Risk Framework ................................................................... 5




                                                      3
     NICARAGUA – BROAD BASED ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES
                           P077826
                        CREDIT 3903-NI

                                  Restructuring Paper

1. The closing date for Nicaragua Broad-Based Access to Financial Services (Credit
   3903-NI) will be extended from December 31, 2010 until December 31, 2012, to
   enable the project to assist the Government to develop a legal and regulatory
   framework for microfinance, strengthen the capacity of Superintendency of Bank and
   Other Financial Institutions (SIBOIF), and support the transformation of microfinance
   institutions into regulated financial institutions.

2. The project development objective is to improve access to financial services provided
   by sound, profitable financial institutions for low-income households and micro and
   small and businesses. The Project Development Objective continues to be achievable.
   Some key indicators of overall project success have been achieved, including (i) an
   increase in the number of accounts in supervised financial institutions and (ii) an
   increase in the number of points of service for supervised financial institutions. A
   specialized private credit registry has been established and is largely covering its
   operational costs, and has become the largest credit registry in the country. SIBOIF
   has established a specialized unit for microfinance supervision, with trained
   supervisors and dedicated equipment. Three non-government organization
   microfinance institutions have transformed into specialized regulated microfinance
   institutions, under supervision of SIBOIF. Finally, in the marginalized Atlantic
   Autonomous Regions, investments have been made in training and equipment to
   small microfinance institutions to increase their outreach and efficiency.

3. The proposed extension is necessary to provide additional time and support to project
   implementing agencies and the private sector partners to secure the gains in access to
   finance. The Borrower has in place an action plan to complete the project and
   disburse the remaining US$3.4 million in project funds within the two-year period.
   The action plan includes specialized technical assistance and goods to strengthen
   SIBOIF’s capacity, improve the ability of retail microfinance institutions to transform
   into regulated institutions, and develop a legal and regulatory framework for
   microfinance. Consultants for key technical assistance activities have already been
   identified. A recent Bank supervision mission confirmed that there is a high
   likelihood that these activities will be completed within the timeframe.

4. This will be the second extension of the project.




                                            4
                                    ANNEX 1:
                          Updated Critical Risk Framework
New Risks Identified During Implementation/Restructuring That Might Jeopardize
       Achievement of the Restructured Project DOs or Outcome Targets:

Risks                         Risk Rating       Risk Mitigation Measures
Operating environment         Significant       The project is supporting an international
risks                                           consultant to provide guidance on
                                                microfinance legal and regulatory matters
                                                to SIBOIF, FNI, ASOMIF and Congress.
                                                A preliminary proposal is under review.

                                                The regulation and supervision of financial
                                                cooperatives, which often serve
                                                microfinance clients, is not clear.
                                                Discussions are taken place with
                                                INFOCOOP, leading cooperatives, and
                                                FNI to identify the best approach to
                                                develop a legal and regulatory system for
                                                financial cooperatives.

                                                Close donor coordination is taking place to
                                                ensure that the operating environment
                                                issues do not decrease access to financial
                                                services in the short term.
Implementing Agency risk      Significant       The government has launched a new state
(FNI)                                           bank that will be active in microfinance
                                                and may subsequently be proposed as the
                                                project implementing agency. Initial
                                                indications are that the systems, key
                                                personnel, policies and institutional
                                                structure are not yet well developed.
Project risks (design,        Modest            No changes in project activities,
safeguards, donor, delivery                     components, or indicators are involved.
quality)
                                                The emphasis on technical assistance
                                                enables the project to meet challenges as
                                                they arise.

                                                Three microfinance institutions have
                                                presented plans for transformation into
                                                regulated financial institutions.

                                                Strong partnerships with a wide range of
                                                key stakeholders have been built around
                                                the project design.


                                            5
6
