Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,( 1 p> y >  -_
Report No. P-4365-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATTONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$48.0 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 10, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dulies. i:s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (HexS)
On July 10, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1   Mex$588.00; the freemarket exchange rate stood at Us$1 = Mex$627.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Heasures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
I meter (m)            =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             0.62 mile (mi)
I kilogram (kg)              2.20 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (NT)            2,205 pounds
I liter (1)                  0 0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
ACF                 Average Cost of Funds - Costo Promnedio Porcentual (cPP)
BdM                 Banco de Mexico
CONACYT             Consejo NacionaL de Ciencia y Tecniologia
DGN                 Direccion General de Normas
DGPI                Direccion General de Promnoc ion Indlustrial
EDI                 Economic Development Institute
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FOMIN               Fondo Nacional de Fomenito Industrial
FONEI               Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
:ONEP               Fondo Nacional de Estudios y Proyectos
GATT                General Agreement on TariFfs and Trade
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GIRA                General Interest Rate Agrecinent
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDB                 Inter-Amnerican Development Bank
IFAD                International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
IMIT                Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
INFOTEC             Servicio de Informacion Tecnologica
ITU                 Industrial Technology Developmebnt
LANFI               Laboratorios Nacionales de Fomento Industrial
LDC                 Less Developed Country
NAFINSA             Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NIC                 Newly Industrialized Country
PEDER               Integrated Rural DeveLopment Program - Progratna Integral
de DesarroLlo Econoinico Rural
PVP                 Present Value Payment System - Sistema de Pagos al
Valor Presente
R&D                 Research and Development
SAP                 Special Action Program
SECOFI              Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
SEMIP               Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraustatal
SHCP                Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
SOEs                Statements of Expenses
SPP                 Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
UNESCO              United Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural
Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MCO
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Loan and Project Susiary
Borrower:       Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
Beneficiary:   Secretaria de Comercio y FomenEo Industrial (SECOFI)
Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
Amount:         US$48.0 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Rtelending
Terms:          NAFINSA would pass on through the Government nearly 96% of loan
funds to FONEI and the balance of 4% to SECOFI. The Government
would repay the principal of the Bank loan, pay interest and all
oLner charges, and assume the foreign exchange risk. FONEI
would onlend funds through financial intermediaries for conven-
tional and conditional technology subloans to industrial enter-
prises at interest rates to the intermediaries not less than 88%
and 104% of the average cost of funds to the banking system
(ACF), respectively.  On conditional subloans, FONEI would
charge an additional risk premium. FONEI would likewise onlend
funds for industrial enterprises to invest in research and
development centers, at interest rates not less than 95% of ACF
to the intermediary. The intermediaries would take a margin of
6% of ACF. FONEI would additionally onlend funds to financial
intermediaries at an interest rate of not less than ACF plus one
percentage point, for them to take equity positions in indus-
trial firms. Maturities would be up to 13 years, including a
maximum grace period of 3 years for conventional and conditional
technology subloans and 5 years for equity loans. Research and
development investment loans would have up to 10 years maturity,
including 5 years of grace. FONEI would offer, as an option,
the Present Value Payment System (PVP) in order to ease the cash
flow of borrowers.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would be the Bank's first to support exclu-
sively industrial technology development in Mexico. Its three
main objectives would be to: (a) review instruments and related
measures designed to encourage industrial technology develop-
ment; (b) strengthen technology infrastructure and metrology
services; and (c) expand and improve FONEI's specialized finan-
cing program. These objectives would be achieved through five
components: vi) industrial technology development analysis;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank suthorization.



- il -
(ii) strengthening of technology infrastructure through feasi-
bility studies and private industry investments in restructured
research and development centers; (iii) strengthening of metrol-
ogy services by assessing the needs of the industrial sector and
programs for initial improvement of metrology services;
(iv) specialized finance for technology development investments
of industrial enterprises; and (v) institutional strengthening
of FONEI. The project would help accelerate industrial technol-
ogy innovation, thereby helping private firms compete in domes-
tic and export markets. Increased availability of funds on
terms suitable for industrial technology development, selective
use of Government subsidy, and improved assistance in identifi-
cation and formulation of subprojects, are expected to result in
more, larger, or earlier technological improvements in partici-
pating firms. Project benefits would continue to accrue after
project completion.
Project
Risks:          This operation would face some uncertainty in that delays in
economic recovery could reduce demand for technology development
finance. It would also face five project-specific risks:
delays in expanding FONEI's specialized staff, in implementing
SECOFI's policy and metrology components, and in restructuring
research and development centers; slow demand for FONEI's condi-
tional loans; and potential financial losses due to failure of
subprojects. To deal with some of these risks, the Government
has already authorized expansion of FONEI staff, and recruitment
is underway; feasibility studies for the research and develop-
ment centers have been completed, and investment plans are under
preparation with the assistance of cons-ultants. Delays in
restructuring the four centers would not jeopardize other proj-
ect objectives, while a slack demand for conditional loans would
only extend the commitment periad for subloans by one year.
Furthermore, adequate provisions have been made for potential
losses under FONEI's conventional and conditional technology
loans. The probability that these risks will materialize is
low, and the arrangements proposed to deal with them are
satisfactory.
Estimated Cost:                                 Foreign       Local        Total
--  USS Millions  -------
Policy Analysis                             0.1          0.7            0.8
R & D Centers
Studier & Promotion                        -           0.2            0.2
Investments                               5.5          8.2           13.7



- lli -
Estimated Cost:  (continued)                     Foreign        Local        Total
--  US$ Millions            …
Metrology Services
Studies                                    0.1          0.2            0.3
Initial Metrology Improvement              1.3          1.3             2.6
Specialized Financing
Line of Credit                            19.4         55.6            75.0
Technical Assistance                       0.5          0.1            0.6
BASE COST                              26.9         66.3           93.2
Contingencies
Physical                                   0.7          1.0             1.7
Price                                      0.8          1.1             1.9
Subtotal Contingencies                   1.5          2.1            3.6
TOTAL COST                              2B.4         68.4           96.8
Financing Plan:
World Bank                                  28.4          19.6           48.0
FONEI/Government/CONACYT                     -           33.8            33.8
Industrial Enterprises                       -            15.0           15.0
TOTAL                                   28.4         68.4           96.8
Estliated                                     (Bank FY/USS Millions)
Disbursements:
87      88       89       90      91       92
Annual              7.4      9.1    10.8       9.9     6.9      3.9
Cumulative          7.4    16.5    27.3    37.2    44.1    48.0
Staff
Appraisal
Report:       No. 5925-ME, June 10, 1986.



INTERN&TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMHNEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TlE RBPD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LoAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.E.C.
WITR THE GUARA NTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA), with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States, for the equivalent of US$48.0 million, to heLp finance specific pro-
grams designed to improve industry's capability to undertake technological
innovations. The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. NAFINSA would pass on loan
funds to FONEI and SECOFI on the same terms as the Bank loan. The Government
would repay the principal of the Bank loan, pay interest charges, and assume
the foreign exchange risk. FONEI would relend funds to: financial intermedia-
ries at interest rates not less than 88% of the average cost of funds (ACF) for
conventional technology subloans; the ACF plus one percentage point for equity
loans; 95% of the ACF for research and development investment loans; and 104%
of the ACF for conditional technology subloans. On conditional technology
subloans, FONEI would charge an additional risk premium to be determined in
accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank. Maturities would be up to 13
years- including a maximum grace period of 3 years for conventional and condi-
tional technology subloans; up to 10 years, including 3 years of grace, for
FONEI equity loans; and up to 13 years, including 5 years of grace, for re-
search and development investment loans. FONEI would offer, as an option, the
Present Value Payment System (PVP), in order to ease the cash flow of
borrowers.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.     An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments and
Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 14,
1984. A new Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled to be issued in two or
three months. Recent economic developments and a provisional assessment of the
consequences for Mexico of the recent sharp decline in oil prices are discussed
below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.     Following an inward-looking growth strategy, Mexico experienced some
three decades of high and stable growth from the 1940s to the 1960s. By 1970,
however, Mexico had largely exhausted the early and efficient possibilities for
import substitution. Against the expectation of rapidly rising petroleum earn-
ings, the Government attempted to foster growth through expansion of public
sector expenditures, rising subsidies, and the protection of high-cost domestic
production. Public sector expenditures as a percent of GDP increased by more
1/   Part I of this Reporc is identical to that in the President's Report for
the Industrial Recovery Loan (P-4364-ME).



- 2 -
than half between 1970 and 1976, from 20.9% to 31.9%. in 1976, Mexico expe-
rienced a serious financial and economic crisis. Although an increase in oil
revenues led Mexico to a quick economic recovery in 1977, it also removed the
urgency of policy reforms. Starting in 1980, rapidly rising public expen-
ditures unmatched by revenue growth led to increasing public sector deficits.
While inflation rose, no significant pressure was felt to adjust the exchange
rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative ease of obtaining foreign
finance.
4.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures reached
the unprecedented level of 40.1% of CDP, while the deficit reached nearly 18%
of GDP. In February, as capital flight intensified, the Bank of Mexico stopped
supporting the peso, which then experienced a 40% devaluation in U.S. dollar
terms. A large wage adjustment and continuing slack in the oil market tended
to undo the effects of the dlevaluation and kept the balance of payments under
strain. Consumer price inflation nearly quadrupled, from 29% in 1981 to 99% in
1982. The international banking community declined to commit new funds to
Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a second devaluation of
35% in August 1982 and the suspension of amortization payments on most of
Mexico's external public debt. Capital flight continued as private sector con-
fidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks in September 1982 and by
the mandatory conversion of U.S. dollar deposits into pesos. Also introduced
were exchange controls and quantitative restrictions (QRs) covering all
imports.
5.     Beginning in late 1982, with the support of an Extended Fund Facility
from the IMF, Mex'co undertook a stabilization program based on drastic con-
traction of domestic demand through fiscal, exchange rate, and monetary poli-
cy. The peso was depreciated to an unprecedented new low in real terms, and
import controls were tightened. Public sector expenditure in relation to GDP
declined over the period 1983-85, from the high of 40.1% in 1982 to about 33%
by 1985. Non-interest expenditure declined to about 22% of CDP by 1985, a 10-
year low. Public sector investment was cut from about 10% of CDP in the late
1970s to 6.6%, again a 10-year low. Non-interest current expenditure also
declined, though more modestly, and remained still at the levels of the late
1970s. Real wages fell 20-25% between 1982 and 1984. Most public sector
prices were raised in real terms.
6.     The stabilization effort for 1983-84 was impressive.  imports fell 25%,
non-oil exports (including border industries) rose 40%, and the trade balance
showed unprecedented surpluses in 1983-84. Despite declining oil prices, net
foreign reserves increased from a negative US$2.0 billion to US$6.5 billion
between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. The 1983-84 performance was
hailed by the international financial community as a model for other coun-
tries. A massive foreign debt restructuring was successfully negotiated.
Total net foreign borrowing for the three-year period 1983-85 amounted to
US$4.5 billion, for an actual decline in the overall debt, in real terms, of
about 4%. But the optimistic reaction to Mexico's success in 1983-84 over-
looked the short-term focus of the stabilization program and the absence of
long overdue structural reforms. Optimism turned to disenchantment a year
later, when it became clear that stabilization in the absence of more funda-
mental structural reforms could not restore Mexico's creditworthiness, nor
would sustainable economic growth be possible without such reforms.



7.     Despite tight fiscal and monetary policies, inflation in both 1983 and
1984 turned out to be much higher than had been projected by the authorities,
consumer prices rising by 80% and 59%, respectively. The fiscal deficit fell
substantially in 1983, to 8.5% of CDP, but then leveled off in 1984. GDP fell
in both 1982 and 1983 (by 0.5% and 5.3%, respectively), and recovered only par-
tially in 1984 (by about 3.5%). CDP per capita by 1984 remained below the lev-
els of 1980, and income per head lower still. By late 1984, as the Government
prepared for the mid-term congressional elections of July 1985, fiscal policy
began to ease, and public sector borrowing increased substantially. Monetary
policy turned accommodating, the exchange rate appreciated further in real
terms, and the fiscal deficit rose well above program targets. The demand-led
growth spurt that resulted, accompanied by higher than projected inflation, was
unsustainable and short-lived.
Recent Develop.ents
8.     Most program targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit rose to
9.8%, inflation increased to 63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10% from
their 1984 levels, and most components of the balance of payments deteriorat-
ed. Foreign reserves declined by nearly US$3.5 billion. While external public
debt actually declined during 1985, the domestic debt of the public sector
surged back up toward the level of 1982. As a result, crowding out of the
private sector in the credit markets was severe as the share of the public sec-
tor in total credit reached an unprecedented high, in excess of 75% in 1985.
The brief spurt of GDP growth between mid-1984 and mid-1985 came quickly to a
halt in late 19B5.
9.     In response to the emerging new crisis, the Government adopted during
the course of 1985 a series of important corrective measures, including remov-
ing import licensing requirements from an additional 40% of merchandise ir-
ports, thus increasing the share of imports not subject to QRs to 63% of total
imports.   The controlled exchange rate was devalued by almost 20% in real
terms, and the system of preannounced fixed daily crawl was replaced by a more
flexible managed float. Important economies were announced in the public sec-
tor, including the elimination of some 25,000 full-time positions and plans to
privatize over 230 small state-owned companies. The Government also started to
rationalize parastatal operations. Further, aggressive adjustment of the con-
trolled exchange rate and a consequent narrowing of the margin between the
controlled and free rates, combined with tight domestic credit, brought capital
flight to a virtual halt in late October.
10.    In spite of the reconstruction needs created by the September earth-
quakes (estimated at US$4 billion), the authorities prepared an austere budget
for 1986. This budget signalled the commitment of the Administration to
renewed demand-management efforts to recover internal and external balance and
move on to a sustainable growth path by the late 1980s. The budget aimed at
halving the fiscal deficit to 4.9% of GDP, through sharp cuts in transfers and
subsidies, smaller reductions in public investment, a surcharge on upper-income
taxpayers, and large adjustments in official prices and tariffs. The 1986 pro-
gram also stressed the importance of continuing policies to liberalize trade
and pushing ahead with other major reforms, such as the restructuring/privati-
zation of some parastatal companies and the easing of remaining restrictions to
foreign investment.



- 4 -
11.    However, the recent instability in the world oil markets has dramatical-
ly altered the Government's fiscal and balance of payments targets for 1986.
The 1986 budget that is now being revised will undoubtedly reflect a larger
public sector deficit and larger external financing requirements than original-
ly planned. For the fiscal deficit, part of the loss from oil taxes will be
offset by further trimming of subsidies and public expenditures. Similarly,
the increase in foreign borrowing requirements will be smaller than the actual
drop in oil export receipts, as a result of foreign interest rates, imports,
and the buAld-up in reserves, all expected to be lower than the original budget
assuruptions. Hence the picture for external financing needs, although somewhat
more difficult, should remain manageable, barring further major declines in
Mexico's oil export prospects.
12.    The expectation of lower prices and volume of oil exports for this year,
despite its negative fiscal and balance of payments implications, has not
affected the Administration's resolve to continue w5th the stabilization cum
structural reform policy. In fact, many of the policy measures/reforms pro-
grammed for 1986--highlighted in the previous paragraph--have already been
addressed. In the area of trade reform, on April 30 the Government announced a
multiyear calendar for the reduction of tariffs. With respect to restructur-
ing/privatization of parastatal enterprises, the authorities have: (i) closed
down the nation's second largest steel plant as part of an overall restructur-
ing plan for the subsector; (ii) closed eight sugar refineries that were un-
profitable; (iii) taken a first step in getting out of the textile sector by
selling one such enterprise; (iv) sharply curtailed subsidies on food items
marketed by CONASUPO; (v) drawn up a 10-point plan for the rationalization of
BANRURAL, the nation's largest bank specialized in agricultural lending; and
(vi) put into effect a major law that will set the stage for increased auton-
omy, efficiency, and accountability in public sector enterprises. Finally, the
Government has specified investment cuts totalling US$1 billion.
Kedium-Ter. Prospects
13.    Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
remain good, provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its current
stabilization program accompanied by major structural adjustment policies
(including trade liberalization cum non-oil export promotion and restructuring/
privatization of parastatal companies), private sector confidence is restored,
and the international environment remains reasonably favorable, including open
markets for Mexico's non-oil exports. Restoration of private sector confidence
is crucial, since only a strong and dynamic private sector will be able to
raise investment and production from the present depressed levels and supply
the increasing non-oil export surplus required for the resumption of growth and
the attainment of sound balance of payments prospects. As regards the external
environment, the international financial community should be prepared to
provide financing in support of sound, growth-oriented economic policies.
14.    Under moderately favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 4-5% a year toward the late 1980s.
However, should a more outward-oriented growth pattern comprising fiscal disci-
pline, improved domestic efficiency, and non-oil export development fail to
materialize, Mexico could enter into a period of prolonged stagnation, charac-
terized by insufficient labor absorption, domestic price distortions, and
continued balance of payments difficulties.



-5-
External Debt and Creditworthinesa
15.    Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$6 bil-
lion during 1983-84, and fell by US$1.5 billion in 1985 to US$92.8 billion.
With an international oil price or US$20/barrel, the net new borrowing require-
ments are expected to averaga some US$2-3 billion per annum during the remaind-
er of the decade, with the debt service ratio remaining a little over 50%.
With an oil price of US$15/barrel, the net borrowing requirements would be an
average of US$4-5 billion per annum during the same period, while the debt
service ratio would be around an average of 55%.
16.    At the end of 1985, the Bank's share in Mexico's public debt was 5.1%.
The Bank's share in Mexico's total public external interest payments was 4.3%.
The Bank's ekposure in Mexico as of end-1985 amounted to 7.6% of its total. ln
view of the expectation that sound economic policies will be pursued in the
future, Mexico is considered creditworthy for this loan.
PART II - BANK GROW OpERATIONS 13 MEXICO 2/
Bank Operations
17.    As of March 31, 1986, Mexico had received 95 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$8.29 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of these,
61 loans totalling US$4.0 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held US$6.63
billion, of which US$2.68 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 40% of Bank
lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 20% for industry, 9%
for power, and 18% for transportation; the remaining 13% has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training. Annex 11 contains
a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1986.
18.    Of the US$8.29 billion total lending, about US$4.7 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutio,;s for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale indus-
trial and tourism enterprises.
19.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and Bank
officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater atten-
tion was focussed on project monitoring. As a result of these measures, most
of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily until mid-
1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million' in FY78 to US$448 million in
FY82. However, the 1982 financial cr'sis again caused delay. in the provision
of counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83 declined to US$389
million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was erlablished in early 1983 to help
the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding constraints on develop-
ment projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are receiving support under the
Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during FY84 improved
significantly at US$528.87 million, or 35% over disbursements in 1983. The
FY85 disbursement figure is US$787.93 million, 49% over 1984 or 100X over
projected.
21   Part II of this Report is identical to that in the President's Report for
the Industrial Recovery Loan (P-4364-ME).



-6-
IFC Operations
20.    As of March 31, 1986, IFC had wade investment commitments in 27 compa-
nies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$580.2 million had
been sold, repaid, or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is
presented in Annex 11. IFC has been working together with the Bank to:
(i) identify investment opportunities which would best suit the needs of the
Mexican private sector in the current phase of the stabilization program, and
(ii) assist the Government in reviewing the requirements of the country's capi-
tal markets, both through economic sectur work and specific proposals for ven-
ture capital operations. A US$100 million capital goods facility, approved in
1983, has yet to be used, and is, therefore, under review. Subsequently, the
IFC has carried out three operations in the motor vehicle and cotton seed
business. The provision of foreign exchange and export production have been
the principal objectives of these operations.
Bank Strategy
21.    The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were to:
(a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the bene-
fits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or indirect-
ly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help reduce
Mexico's urban/'regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks which prevent
rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of Bank assistance to
Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis and a reassessment of the
Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank Management concluded that: (a) increased Bank
lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be linked to central policy re-
forms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role in assisting Mexico's return
to voluntary lending. To prepare itself for this new role, the Bank has inten-
sified and broadened its economic and sector work.  Specific policy retorms
that are presently being pursued through a dialogue with the Mexican Government
cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberali--
zation, rationalization of preferential credit systems, improvement in public
sector pricing, and investment and subsidy reduction. Traditional lending
incorporating project- or sector-specific policy issues will be conducted in
parallel with policy dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro policy issues.
22.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the sec-
tor's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population living in
rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending.
The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at: (a) a more effi-
cient and rational use of natural resources to increase production; (b) produc-
tivity improvements of cultivated lands, with emphasis on the productivity of
small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment-generating investments in rural
areas. To support these goals, infrastructure investments in Bank-assisted
projects have been complemented with support services, such as extension, mar-
keting programs, and credit. The Bank has made 10 loans in FYs8O-85 totalling
US$1,566.0 million, for irrigation, rural and agricultural investment projects,
and agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. A loan for a Second Tropi-
cal Agricultural Project was approved by the Executive Directors on Marclh 4,
1986. Projects for irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed
multiplication, forestry, agro-industries, and agricultural credit are in
various stages of preparation. Special emphasis has been placed in recent
years on the development of rainfed areas.



- 7 -
23.    Bank lending for industry between FYs80-85 amounted to US$947.3 million,
covering areas of small- and medium-scale industry, mining, vocational train-
ing, capital goods industries dcvelopment, and export development.  After the
i982 crisis, a US$350 million loan was approved LO assist in Mexico's non-oil
export drive. Based on the lessons of experience under that sector adjustment
operation and broad economic sector work carried out with thi Government re-
cently, a new comprehensive assistance strategy was formulated to guide the
Bank's lendlng work for industry. This stratagy supports: (a) trade policy
reform to move towards greater uniformity of lncentives and greater interna-
tional competitiveness; (b) complementary financial sector policies to reverse
the prolonged contraction experienced by Mexico's financial system, includ'ng
its securities market; and (c) measures required to encourage adequate supply
responses, particularly through export promotion and industrial restructuring.
24.    Under the above strategy, the Bank is responding to the current needs of
Mexico's industrial sector. A US$500 million Trade Policy Loan, that has just
been negotiated and would be presented for Board consideration in the near
future, is aimed at supporting the trade liberalization process through further
reform measures and the provision of quick-disbursing finance that is expected
to facilitate the mobilization of commercial bank funds for Mexico's external
financing needs in 1986. A US$150 million Industrial Recovery Loan is al.o
scheduled for distribution to the Board, which would help strengthen the finan-
cial position and expand the production of industrial enterprises. The Bank
has already appraised a Second Export Development Project, which would continue
Bank assistance for increased non-oil export and policy reforms and provide
finance to exporters. In addition, substantive preparation work has been
undertaken to assess the need for financial and physical restructuring in key
industrial sectors and explore the way in which the Bank could support both
parastatal and private enterprises. Discussions are most advanced for Ferti-
lizer Sector Adjustment and Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
operations.
25.    Bank lending for transport has focussed on regional development,
strengthening of institutions, and rationalization of public investment outlays
and pricing policies. Between FYsBO-85, six loans amounting to US$753.7 mil-
lion were approved, including two in each of the following three subsectors:
highways, railways, and ports. Additional projects to support the above goals
were undertaken in the urban sector. During FYs80-85, four loans were approved
in the urban sector totalling US$408.5 million, in the fields of water supply
and sewerage and urban development. Two urban projects were recently approved
by the Executive Directors: a Municipal Strengthening and a Solid Waste Pilot
Project. An Earthquake Rehabilitation Project was also approved on March 25,
1986. Additional projects are under consideration in the transport and urban
sectors, aiming at strengthening the various institutions in the areas of
planning, management, and finance.
26.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico through
various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and institutional
reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/seminars on water
supply and sanitation sector managem-int, transport policy, agricultural policy,
industrial development and finance, and macro policy analysis.
27.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling



- 8 -
US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1986.  Over 50% of the total has gone to agri-
cultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transportation,
industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism inErastructure, education, munici-
pal development, and preinvestment. The IDB and the Bank have coordinated
their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the national
integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and livestock
credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel development
projects. The IDB is also providing a program of assistance for earthquake
rehabilitation and reconstruction. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22.0 million for a rural develop-
ment project in the State of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff
and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering
the loan.
PART III - TUE INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SECTOR
Industrial Sector - Background
28.    Over the past three decades: Mexico's manufacturing industry developed
into one of the leading sectors of the economy: its share in CDP rose from 17%
in 1950 to 24% in the early 1980s, currently generating roughly one out of
eight jobs in the country. The engine of growth had been an import-substitu-
tion strategy whichl provided high protective barriers, together with tax breaks
and subsidiec. As a result, Mexican industry has remained largely uncompeti-
tive, with a Lmited export base.
29.    In the wake of the 1982 economic and financial crisis, the domestic
market collapsed, and industrial growth came to an abrupt halt.  After a drop
in industrial production during 1982-83, the industrial sector began a recovery
as output grew 4.8% in 1984. But this upswing stemmed from a recovery of the
domestic market and, to a minor extent, from rising exports that were encour-
aged by the drastic devaluation of che peso. Given the Government's commitment
to a gradual opening of the economy that was initiated in 1985, including a
decision to join the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), prospects
for further growth are reasonable. But it would have to be achieved through
substantially increased non-oil exports and efficient import substitution.
This will require Mexican industry to become competitive both abroad and at
home. Without significant advances tn technology, Mexico's industry cannot
face this challenge, hence the central importance of industrial technology
development to the country's economic recovery over the years to come.
Industrial Technology Development
30.    Since the 1950s, but especially since 1970, the Government has been
strengthening the nation's industrial technology capability. Initially, the
emphasis was on public sector research and development agencies, while more
recent efforts also included fiscal incentives, public sector purchase pro-
grams, regulation of technology imports, and specialized financing. Like
industrialized and other developing countries, Mexico too has relied on credit
subsi/ies in promoting industrial technology development.  This widely-us-d
policy instrument is justified by the high social returns from technology
investments--which are not all captured by the innovator, and the high risks
associated with the investments--which the investors cannot fully bear. The



high returns include substantial external benefits which accrue to the economy
as a whole, through diffusion of knowledge, development of specialized
manpower, and strengthening of suppliers and contractors.
31.    Outlays for all research and development in Mexico rose from 0.17Z of
GDP in 1970 to 0.51% in 1982, which are comparable to the levels in Brazil and
Argentina, but far below other newly industrialized countries (e.g., Korea,
0.9%) and industrialized countries (e.g., U.S.A., 2.7%). Of this total, about
87% is spent by the public sector, which is much higher than the shares of the
Governments of Brazil (60%), Korea (30%), and the U.S.A. (20%). Industry ac-
counts for about 35% of total research and development expenditures, which is
similar to the levels in Brazil and Argentina, but much below the 50-60% in
countries like Korea, Japan, or Hungary. The share of Mexico's public sector
in all industrial research and development is around 70%. These figures
reflect the prominent role of public sector in industrial development.
32.    Industrial technology capability is mostly confined to large parastatal
enterprises, firms associated with multinational corporations, and some large
private industries. Other firms generally import technology, doing little to
adapt it to Mexican conditions or to develop it themselves, thus remaining
essentially dependent on foreign sources. Many medium and small firms are even
worse off, as they lack management, technical knowledge, manpower, and finances
to undertake technological innovation or even to identify their needs and
translate them into bankable projects. The shortage of research and develop-
ment capability has been aggravated as the public sector--the main source of
domestic technology development expertise--has not catered to the needs of
private industry or furnished an effective system of industrial standards,
metrology, and quality assurance.
Constraints on Industrial Technology Development
33.    Overall economic policy was the root cause of limited industrial tech-
nology development in Mexico. In the absence of competitive pressures in the
domestic market or a drive to boost exports, incentives for technology develop-
ment have been weak, and the specialized policies seeking to spur such develop-
ment have not brought the desired results. When, in 1970, Mexico experienced a
short-li-red attempt to open its economy, markets and investment expanded rapid-
ly and the internal demand for new technology grew. Large parastatal enterpri-
ses set up or enlarged technology development facilities, subsidiaries af
multinational firms obtained new know-how from their parent companies, large
private industrial conglomerates started specialized companies to develop in-
house research and development, and the Government stepped up its promotion of
research and development by creating specialized infrastructure and adopting
supportive policies. But the insufticient technological capability could not
meet the sudden rise in demand. And, with the reversal of economic policies to
highly protected import-substitution, most industries found it less risky and--
wiLlt an increasingly overvalued peso--less costly to purchase foreign techno-
logy, thus often acquiring technologies which did not reflect Mexico's long-
term comparative advantage. Such purchases were made all the more attractive
by the country's promixity to the U.S.A.
34.    Policies seeking to spur technology development have in and of them-
selves not been successful. Fiscal incentives offered a short time horizon,



- 10 -
their permanence was uncertain, and they were poorly administered. Regulation
of technology imports--mainly patent licenses and technical services currently
worth about US$300 million a year--has weeded out some abusive practices by
foreign technology suppliers, but has been relatively ineffective in enhancing
the assimilation of imported technology. Purchases by the public sector to
encourage industrial technology development by Mexican suppliers have had a
limited impact, because of administrative restrictions, preference for imported
goods, and inadequate technical information and finance available to potential
domestic suppliers. The successes and Eailures of other countries and of
Mexico's past experience in technology development have not been taken into
account adequately in formulating policy. Furthermore, measures in the above
three areas have not been sufficiently coordinated, nor have they been inte-
grated with the general taxation and foreign investment laws which affect risk
investments and technology transfer. Responsibility for technology development
policy is shared between the Secretariats of Trade and Industrial Development
(SECOFI), Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), Energy, Mines and Parastatal
Industry (SEMIP), and the National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT).
35.    Support of technology development infrastructure by successive Govern-
ments focussed on strenothening research at universities and specialized tech-
nology development centers, such as the Institute of Technology and Advanced
Studies at Monterrey, the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), the
Mexican Institute of Technology Research (IMIT), and the National Laboratories
of Industrial Development (LANFI), and at regional centers established in the
1970s by CONACYT. These efforts were helpful in building up research, but they
have not been a major source of technological change in Mexico. Because of the
Government's emphasis on the supply of technology rather than on the underlying
factors of industry's demand, Mexico's growing industrial research and develop-
ment infrastructure--now counting some 140 centers, mostly in the public sec-
tor--has remained isolated from private industry. As a result, the technolog-
ical capability that was built up has become unresponsive to the needs of the
private sector, and the CONACYT centers, for instance, depend on Government
contributions to cover, on average, 70% of their operating expenses.
36.    Responsibility for establishing and monitoring standards and developing
a national metrology center rests with the Directorate General of Standards
(DGN) of SECOFI, but this agency dDes not have adequate staff or the required
resources. As Mexico's industry developed under a highly protective trade
regime, industrialists generally lacked an appreciation of the importance of
quality assurance. The infrastructure of industrial metrology services is
incomplete, and does not readily offer assistance to those in need of recog-
nized international standards. As a result, industrial quality assurance,
standards, and metrology are inadequate to sustain more advanced industrial
uevelopment in Mexico.
37.    Specialized finance for industrial technology development is provided by
the National Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI), National Fund of Industrial
Development (FOMIN), National Fund of Studies and Projects (FONEP), and
CONACYT. FONEI--a long-standing implementing agency of Bank-supported indus-
trial projects--is a second tier institution, makes long-term loans, and dis-
counts commercial credit; FOMIN invests equity in small- and medium-sized
firms; FONEP finances preinvestment and engineering studies, including research
and development projects; and CONACYT offers a shared-risk program consisting



- 11 -
of grants and conditional loans, which have repayment terms that take into
account the success of the project. But private industry has not made use of
CONACYT's program on the scale originally expected, mainly because CONACYT
processes applications too slowly, has not adjusted investment costs for infla-
tion, and has had some problems with confidentiality and property rights. Of
these programs, FONEI's operation has the broadest base, is the best managed,
and is the most responsive to industry's technology financing needs.  CONACYT,
through its research and development centers, offers infrastructure and related
services in most subsectors of industry. Therefore, the proposed first Bank
project is designed to support these two agencies, leaving aside, for the time
being, FOHIN and FONEP, whose profile is much narrower and whose capacity to
deliver is limited.
38.    Among these specialized Einancing agencies, only some US$13 million was
committed for industrial research and development in 1984, 78% of which was
made available by FONEI. Financial instruments currently offered to innovators
are inadequcte, generally avoiding risk and lacking the necessary close inte-
gration with technical assistance and promotion. Private venture capital has
not been attracted into the technology development field, in part because
existing regulations are not encouraging risk investment, and recent measures
for the capital market's development are expected to produce results only in
the mediam term.
Prospects for Industrial Technology Development
39.    As part of the IMF-supported stabilization program that was launched in
late 1982, a more realistic exchange rate policy began to make Mexican prodlcts
more competitive abroad, induce substitution of imported raw materials, and
raise the price of foreign technology. As a result, since 1982 private invest-
ment in technology development financed by specialized agencies has been rising
by about 20% a year, even though industrial enterprises have been faced with
unusual financial difficulties in the same period. Projections taking into
account the impact of the 1985 trade liberalization measures show an acceler-
ated demand for technology development financing, particularly in the private
sector.
40.    The Government launched a broad 1984-88 program to support science and
technology development, guiding public sector institutions which are involved
dirpctly or indirectly in technology development and related activities. Fis-
cal incentives and the provision of finance to firms, as well as investment in
technology service centers, play an important role in tne program. But it has
not been fully translated into operational plans. While a considerable number
of initiatives are underway, several important industrial technology develop-
ment projects which were included in the National Development Plan for 1984-88,
such as the strengthening of metrology centers, have so far not been under-
taken. Drastic reductions in public sector outlays since mid-1985 have had an
understandable impact in this respect, but the Government is committed to the
continued priority of technology development, which is evidenced, among others,
by the proposed project.
Bank Lending Strategy
41.    Bank support for industry in Mexico currently rests on comprehensive
macroeconomic and broad sector work, which have made possible the processing of



- 12 -
several lending operations designed to address issues of trade liberalization,
export promotion, and industrial restructuring. Successful performance by
Mexican industry in these three areas will depend on technological development,
which is a prerequisite to increasing competitiveness abroad, producing inter-
mediate goods efficiently, and improving industrial processes and product qual-
ity. To achieve the required level of domestic technology development, the
Government must make progress in adopting an appropriate industrial technology
policy and developing institutions, and it must assure that specialized financ-
ing would be available on suitable terms. Therefore, the Bank's decision to
move forward with a technology development project now is timely, as it would
complement other Bank-financed operations and support fresh Mexican initia-
tives.
42.    The proposed operation would focus on the development of the technologi-
cal capabilities of private industry, reducing the excessive concentration of
industrial technology resources and responsibilities within the public sector.
It would also supplement the Government's long-standing emphasis on the supply
of technology, with measures aimed at identifying the needs and subsequent
involvement of the private sector in improving technology development infra-
structure, policy implementation, and specialized financing schemes.
43.    Limited Bank experience with technology development elsewhere, in parti-
cular in Spain and Korea, makes a convincing case for an integrated approach to
industrial technology development. Assuming supportive macroeconomic condi-
tions exist, specific Government policies affecting industrial technology
development, support services, and financing must be closely coordinated.
Specialized financing schemes and the institutions responsible for intermedia-
tion need to be autonomous and closely integrated with technical assistance and
promotion programs for technology development. The proposed project has been
designed taking into account the lessons of the Bank's experience in these
areas.  But, given Mexico's large economy and numerous public and private sec-
tor agencies that play some role in technology development, the scope of the
proposed project--representing the Bank's first substantive involvement in
industrial technology in the country--has been limited to a Eew key issues and
institutions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.    In early 1984 the Government, together with FONEI, showed interest in
Bank support for technology development in Mexico. A project was identified in
September 1984, and a Bank pre-appraisal mission visited Mexico in February
1985, followed by appraisal in August of the same year. Negotiations took
place in Washington, D.C. on April 23-29, 1986. The Mexican delegation was led
by Lic. Luis Nava Hernandez, NAFINSA Executive Representative in Washington,
D.C., and included Lic. Hector Flores Santana, Manager of World Bank Financing
in NAFINSA; Lic. Jesus Villasenor Gonzalez, Director General of FONEI; Lic.
Antonio Cervera Sandoval, Chief, Industrial Sector Projects Department of SHCP;
and Dr. Jorge Elizondo Alarcon, Deputy Director of CONACYT. A Staff Appraisal
Report (5925-ME) is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Annex III provides supplementary data on the project.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
45.    The proposed project would be the Bank's first to support technology
development in Mexico, and its three main objectives would be to:  (i) assist
sector agencies in reviewing instruments and related measures designed to
encourage industrial technology development; (ii) strengthen technology
infrastructure and metrology services; and (iii) expand and improve FONEI's
specialized financing program, thus helping improve industry's capability, par-
ticularly in the private sector, to utndertake technological innovation. These
project objectives would be achieved through the following five components:
(a)    Industrial technology development analysis, consisting of studies
of factors that influence technological innovation in industrial
enterprises, including, inter alia, fiscal incentives, special-
ized financing, and technology assimilation strategies;
(b)    'easibility studies and promotional services for the establish-
ment or corporate reorganization and financial restructuring of
aboct four research and development centers and the provision of
finance for private investors' equity participation in such
centers;
Cc)    A study to assess the needs of the industrial sector in metrol-
ogy, define cost-effeczive measures, and identify specific metro-
logy programs and institutes that require strengthening; and the
execution of initial programs to improve metrology services to
industry, subject to the study's findings;
Cd)    Provision of finance for technology subprojects of industrial
enterprises; and
Ce)    Institutional strengthening of FONEI in the field of industrial
technology development financing.
Industrial Te-2kology Developnenat 4alysia
46.   This project component, accounting only for slightly less than 1% of
total project costs, would help focus the Government's attention on economic
factors, policies, and related instruments designed to encourage industrial
technology development. To work towards this objective, SECOFI--through its
General Directorate of Industrial Policy (DGPI)--would carry out studies of
various factors, including, inter alia, fiscal incentives, specialized finan-
cing schemes, technology assimilation strategies, and demand for specialized
finance in Mexico. The studies would be carried out within the framework of
medium-term macroeconomic scenarios. They would examine interdependence among
the various factors mentioned above, the impact of past policies, and related
experience of other countries, in order to draw lessons and recommend specific
improvements in the Government's policy package for technology development at
the enterprise level. These studies would not be financed with loan funds.
Technology Infrastructure
47.    The second project component--accounting for about 17% of total project
costs--would help develop Mexico's research and development infrastructure to



- 14 -
become more responsive to the needs of private industry by establishing or
restructuring and partially privatizing Eour selected state-owned research and
development centers. Prospects for private sector participation are good, as
it was established during project appraisal that many private entetprises,
rather than developing costly in-house research and development capabilities,
would prefer to acquire a stake in the expansion of existing public research
and development centers through equity and consequent management participation.
48.    CONACYT has, with the Bank's concurrence, already selected four from
among eight centers in the pharmaceutical, agro-industry and biotechnology,
metal mechanics, and chemical sectors. It has also commi3sioned consultants,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to study the business viabil-
ity, corporate reorganization, and financial restructuring of each center, or
the establishment of new centers, as appropriate, with private sector partici-
pation. Based on these studies, the centers would prepare specific investment
plans designed to provide services in product development, equipment and pilot
plant design, technical assistance, quality control, metrology, technology
information, and liaison with specialized agencies. These services are expect-
ed to be especially valuable to medium-sized enterprises which do not have in-
house research and development capability and, indirectly, to large firms which
depend on suppliers and subcontractors whose quality control and technology
problem-solving capability would benefit from the proposed project. The four
centers employ some 145 professionals and provinLe service to 210 industrial
enterprises, including some large parastatal companies.
49.    The proposed project would provide finance for research and development
investment loans to private enterprises for incremental equity investments in
the selected four centers, thus injecting the cash required for the execution
of specific investment plans and allowing private enterprises to participate in
management. To attract firms to this new concept, FONEI would, through finan-
cial intermediaries, initially finance up to 10O% of an enterprise's equity
purchases in any center. After about one year, FONEI's maximum participation
would be reviewed, with a view to bringing it in line with the terms of FONEI's
specialized technology development financing. The amount of equity would be
determined on the basis of investment plans, which would specify the restruc-
turing of the center's ownership, the equipment, works, and services needed to
start up the center's new activities, and the institutional arrangements ensur-
ing participation of private firms, the Government, and CONACYT or other enti-
ties as appropriate. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be used exclusiveiy for
new investments and related services.
Netrology Services
50.    SECOFI's General Directorate of Standards (DGN) would carry out the
project's third component, representing about 3.6% of project costs. DON
would, vith the assistance of a metrology institution and consultants, assess
the adequacy of existing industrial metrology infrastructure, as well as the
quality of available services. These studies, to be partially financed with
loan funds, would recommend cost-effective solutions to problems arising from
inadequate service and incomplete infrastructure. Establishment of metrology
laboratories would be evaluated, as would be alternatives for importing servi-
ces from abroad, with a view to assure Mexican industry access to recognized
international standards. Specific metrology programs and the institutions



- 15 -
which require strengthening would also be identified in at least one or two
industrial subsectors, and, subject to the findings of the study, the proposed
project would finance the execution of such programs.
Specialized Finance for Technology Development
51.    The fourth and largest project component--representing about 77% of
total costs--would finance industrial technology investments through FONEI's
specialized credit program and equity purchases by commercial banks. FONEI
lends through financial intetmediaries primarily to private industrial and
engineering firms and research centers to finance inputs (basic information,
process engineering, raw materials and supplies, research and development,
equipment, the provision of operating and start-up expenses, and staff train-
ing) for technology development subprojects. Technology subprojects comprise a
variety of activities ultimately using specialized technical knowlcdge and
undertaken to improve or develop industrial products and processes. The imple-
menting enterprise can, as a result of technology investments, better adjust to
changing markets and resources, and expand exports.
52.    FONEI is strongly committed to strengthening and expanding its special-
ized credit program as envisaged under the project, but it could not undertake
the required tasks unless its specialized staff were expanded, from 5 existing
positions in 1985 to 12 in 1986, and about 18 in 19B7. During negotiations the
Bank was informed that the Government had approved 17 new staff positions for
1986, 7 in the industrial technology development and portfolio supervision
units, and 10 in the support units of FONEI. Staff requirements for 1987 would
be reviewed in the second half of 1986, in the course of project supervision.
Institutional Strengthening of FONEI
53.    This component, representing less than 1% of project costs, would help
strengthen FONEI's institution by providing technical assistance and training
for expanding the fund's technology development program. In particular, the
program would provide: () local and overseas training for FONEI's staff,
especially those to be hired in 1986 and 1987; and (ii) technical assistance in
strengthening the promotion, evaluation, and supervision of technology sub-
projects.
Relending Terns
54. The Borrower,. NAFINSA, would channel the resources to: (i) SECOFI for
the metrology studies; and (ii) FONEI, through the Government, for the spe-
cialized technology financing program, equity investments in four restructured
research and development centers, metrology investments, and institutional
strengthening. To improve FONEI's financial position, the Government would
repay the full principal of the loan, pay interest and all other charges, and
bear the related foreign exchange risk. Execution of contractual arrangements
between the Government and NAFINSA and FONEI, on terms satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a special condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness.
Terns and Conditions of FONEI's Financing Progras
55.    On research and development investment loans financing equity in the
restructured centers (para. 49), FONEI would set and adjust interest rates to



- 16 -
the ultimate beneficiary accordinig to the General Interest Rate Agreement
(GIRA) between the Government and the Bank. A new interest rate category for
these research and development investment loans would be introduced in GIRA,
setting rates to be equivalent to the ACF. The required amendment of CIRA
would be a speciaL condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness. Maturity of
these loans would be up to 13 years, including a maximum grace period of 5
years.
56.    Investors seeking specialized finance for technology development under
the proposed project (para. 51) would have access to two different debt finan-
cing instruments, grants and equity. Enterprises themselves would determine
whether to obtain: (i) conventional subloans with or without grants; (ii) con-
ditional subLoans; or (iii) finance through equity sales to commercial banks.
They, as well as the commercial banks, would also have a choice of the PVP
repayment mechanism (para. 62). These arrangements would help industrial
enterprises to choose the most suitable form of financing, thus accomodating
their needs in terms of the varying risk factors, cash flow requirements, and
innovative features of their technology investments.
57.    As a second tier institution (para. 37), FONEI would charge interest on
conventional loans to financial intermediaries at rates equivalent to 88% of
the ACF. Commercial banks would add a spread equivalent to 6% of the ACF,
which is sufficient to attract them into the field of technology financing.
This incentive would be reinforced by FONEI's policy of guaranteeing 90% and
discounting 100% of technology subloans made by the intermediaries. Interest
rates to final beneficiaries would be equivalent to 94% of the ACF. Up to
recently, however, GIRA set these interest rates--in accordance with earlier
arrangements--at a minimum level equivalent to the ACF, less three percentage
points. It was agreed during negotiations that fcrmal amendment of GIRA to
reflect the above new nominal interest rate level for technology financing
would be a special condition of the proposed project's effectiveness.
58.    To provide investors with financing on terms appropriate for industrial
technology development, FONEI has been making available a mix of conventional
subloans and grant funds. FONEI discounts eligible subloans made by commercial
banks and provides grants to the enterprise. FONEI finances up to 80% of total
investment costs, and the investor covers the remaining 20%. FONEI's grant
component has averaged 10% oE project costs, and is limited to a maximum of
30%. Grants in the past have been financed out of FONEI's operating revenues.
The criteria FONEI applies to determine the grant amount reflect the innovative
merit and the level of risk involved; they have been reviewed by the Bank and
found satisfactory. To reduce risks to the financial intermediaries and
broaden access to the program, the maximum of technology subloans outstanding
to any borrower would not exceed US$4 million at any time. Subloans would have
maturities of up to 13 years and a maximum grace period of 3 years.
59.    The above rates (para. 57) and the grants (para. 58) imply a subsidy,
which is justified (para. 30). In the past, the Bank has supported subsidized
technology financing programs, as in the case of Korea and Spain. But--in the
context of the proposed project--the subsidy outlays involved can only be
justified if adequate provisions are made not to allow FONEI's finances to
deteriorate on account of its technology development program. To maintain a
sound financial position while expanding its financing program for technology



- 17 -
development under the proposed project, FONEI must ensure that the grants it
would make or the interest subsidy it would provide, would not jeopardize its
financial results. The amount involved has been estimated at US$1.7 million
equivalent in 1986, which is expected to rise to US$2.4 million by 1988.
During negotiations it was agreed that FONEI would maintain a separate account
reflecting the amount of grants made and the amount arising out of the differ-
ence between the interest rates actually paid on technology subloans and those
which would have been applicable if the subloans had been made at the interest
rates provided for in GIRA for general industrial equipment. It was also
agreed that if the amount of such subsidies would materially and adversely
affect FONEI's financial results, the Government would make arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide FONEI promptly with funds as needed to
avoid such an adverse effect.
60.    Given the high risk that technology innovation entails, a mix of conven-
tional loans and grants may not be appropriate in all circumstances.  To broad-
en the range of financial instruments suitable for industrial technology
development, including investments for full-scale production using locally-
developed technology, FONEI has introduced conditional loans to investor
enterprises. Under These loans, if the technology subproject performs poorly,
FONEE may, in consideration of the eaterprise's overall financial position,
reduce amortization of principal to a percentage of net revenues generated by
the project and reschedule or remit any outstanding balance when the subloan
matures. Financial intermediaries would charge interest on conditional loans
to the investor at rates not less than 110% of the ACF, plus a risk premium.
To determine the amount oE the risk premium, FONEI would, according to methods
and criteria satisfactory to the Bank, evaluate the risk associated with each
investment project. Provisions for conditional loans would be introduced in
GIRA reflecting the above interest rate levels and the required amendment would
be a condition of loan effectiveness.
61.    To provide a further financing option to enterprises for the more risky
research and development investments that the project is designed to encourage,
FONEI would also lend to commercial banks for placing equity holdings in indus-
trial enterprises (para. 51). On these equity loans to commercial banks, FONEI
would charge interest rates not less than the ACF, plus one percentage point.
Maturities would be up to 10 years, including a maximum grace period of three
years. Equity or quasi-equity holdings in enterprires investing in technology
development would be restricted to a maximum of 25% of the share capital of any
company, and investments exceeding 10% of a company's capital would not be held
longer than five years, after which the commercial bank would reduce its equity
holding to below 10% of the company's total equity.  These restrictions not
only are in line with current legislation and would help keep the risks within
reaso-able limits, but they would also contribute to the promotion of an emer-
ging zecondary equity market. The risk of equity investment would be borne by
the financial intermediary, as FONEI would merely finance the equity holdings
according to agreed guidelines, which are reflected in FONEI's Operating Regu-
lations.
62.    The adverse cash flow impact of high nominal interest rates has, to some
extent, become a deterrent to term borrowing in Mexico. To mitigate that
impact, FONEI would offer--as an alternative to conventional repayment terms--
the PVP payment system, which it has introduced recently. This system, unlike



- 18 -
the conventional repayment schedule, offers no grace period, and interest is
payable only on that portion of the principal which is being repaid, while the
remainder of interest payments is capitalized and paid at a later date. Under
this scheme the schedule of principal amortization--and consequently, debt
service payments too--are flexibly determined by the borrower's cash flow pro-
jections. Therefore, the PVP system alleviates the adverse cash flow effects
of early service payments under conventional repayment terms. This repayment
mechanism would be available to investors and financial intermediaries alike,
including equity loans to be made to commercial banks.
Policy and Strategy Statement for Technology Financing
63.    To provide a clear focus for its industriaL technology development pro-
gram and to present the various elements of its financing scheme, FONEI has
submitted to the Bank a Policy and Strategy Statement which identifies the pro-
gram's objectives and states FONEI's policy and operational rules for grants,
conventional and conditional subloans, lending and staffing targets, and a
promotional strategy for the program. It has also confirmed FONEI's intention
to review during project implementation, together with the Government, the
grant and interest rate subsidy (para. 59) involved in its technology develop-
ment financing, and outline the borrowers' choice between: (i) a loan that
carries an interest rate subsidy; and (ii) a loan that has FONEI's standard
industrial equipment rates, but is combined with a grant roughly equivalent to
the amount of the interest subsidy.
Project Costs and Financing
64.    Project costs have been estimated taking into account the outlook for
demand by private industry for technology development investments. Total costs
would amount to US$96.8 million, with an estimated foreign exchange component
of US$28.4 million. A Bank loan of US$48 million would finance about 50% of
total costs, which is in line with the Bank's cost sharing under other indus-
trial loans to Mexico.
Project Execution
65.    Loan funds would be fully committed by June 30,  1939, but implementation
of FONEI's subprojects would continue for another sear. SECOFI would carry out
the technology development analysis and metrology study components; FONEI,
CONACYT, and the Government would carry out the technology infrastructure
component; and FONEI would be responsible for the specialized technology
financing component and institutional strengthening, as well as channelling
funds for technology infrastructure and metrology investments.
66.    To ensure a proper focus for the technology development studies
(para. 46), it was agreed during negotiations that SECOFI would afford the Bank
a reasonable opportunity to comment on the terms of reference of the studies,
carry out the analyses and studies not later than September 30, 1987, and
exchange views with the Bank on the studies' conclusions.
67.    The restructured research and development centers would not be able to
carry out their operation unless comprehensive investment plans are ready and
firm financial and institutional arrangements are in place. Therefore, sub-
mission to the Bank of;  (i) guidelines for research and development investment



- 19 -
loans, setting out the procedures and terms and conditions of such loans;
(ii) an investment plan for any nenter; and tiii) evidence that the aggregate
amount of investment loans for any center is sufficient to ensure the efficient
execution of the investment plan, all satisfactory to the Bank, would be condi-
tions of disbursement for this project component.
68.    Definition of any metrology investment to be financed under the proposed
loan would depend on the results of studies to be carried out by a metrology
institution and consultants (para. 50). Given the key role of a specialized
agency, retaining by SECOFI of a qualified metrology institution would be a
condition of disbursement for any expenditure under this project component. To
complement the expertise of the selected metrology institution and SECOFI's own
staff, SECOFI would employ consultants. During negotiations, an agreement was
reached that SECOFI would allow the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on
the terms of reference of the studies, carry out the analyses and studies not
later than September 30, 19B7, and exchange views with the Bank on the studiest
conclusions. Bank approval of specific metrology programs to be defined under
the studies would be a condition of disbursement for any investment under the
project's metrology component.
69.    FONEI's Technical Committee--composed of high-level officials of key
Secretariats as well as representatives of a broad segment of private indus-
try--approves the credit applications. However, as FONEI's technology develop-
ment program is relatively new and not too well established, the Bank's prior
review would be required for the first five conventional technology subloans
and equity loans and all others in excess of US$500,000, and for conditional
subloans exceeding US$800,000--reflecting the larger than average size of
subprojects which they are expected to Einance. This procedure would enable
the Bank to have prior review of an estimated 20% of all technology subproj-
ects, representing roughly B0% of the aggregate value of all subprojects
financed with 'oatn funds.
70.    To ensure that FONEI's Technology Development Unit would have detailed
risk and market analysis and adequate supervision and administrative arrange-
ments for its expanding portfolio of technology subprojects, the agency has
prepared and put into effect a revised operating manual, which was reviewed
during negotiations and found satisfactory. Given the risks associated with
the Bank's first involvament in technology development in Mexico, project
supervision would consist of frequent, albeit small, technical missions. These
would afford the Bank an opportunity to monitor progress in FONEI's subproject
evaluation and supervision procedures and to identify the need for any adjust-
ment in standing policy or procedures. Building on its own experience, FONEI
would establish, not later than June 30, 1987, a system, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the post-evaluation of technology development subprojects, including
their technical, economic, and financial impact.
Procurement, Disbursements, and Auditing
71.    Procurement procedures for goods and services financed with loan funds
would comply with those customary for industrial development finance opera-
tions. Under the project's technology infrastructure and metrology components,
limited international bidding procedures would be applied to goods costing in
excess of US$500,000 equivalent, while below that level or for civil works,



- 20 -
local or international shopping procedures with a minimum of three quotationA
would be required, both types of procedures to lie satisfactory to the Bank.
The Bank would have prior review of contracts for goods and services estimated
to cost in excess of US$150,000 equivalent under the agreed investment plan of
any research and development center or metrology program. All consultants to
be financed with loan funds would have qualifications, experience, and terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank.
72.    The Bank would disburse against 702 of FONEI's loans and 65% of equity
loans for technology development subprojects, 100% of eligible expenditures
financed under its research and development investment loans, and 50% of expen-
ditures for goods and civiL works required for the metrology component. Dis-
bursements for consultant services would cover up to 100% of eligible expen-
ditures. A Special Account of up to US$4 million would be established at
NAFINSA. Withdrawals from the loan account wouLd be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs), and NAFINSA would keep supporting documenta-
tion for review. Retroactive financing is recommended for a total of US$4.8
million for technology development subprojects and the project's research and
development center component, for expenditurea incurred after September 1,
1985. Given the Government's current strict adherence to austerity measures,
retroactive financing initially would help expand FONEI's technology develop-
ment program and minimize delays in undertaking investments in research and
development centers. The loan's closing date would be June 30, 1992.
73.    The accounts of NAFINsA and FONEI, including those kept for the purposes
of the project, the Special Account, and SOEs, would be audited annuaLly by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports, including an
opinion in respect of the supporting documentation for disbursements based on
SOEs, would be submitted to the Bank annually within six months after the end
of NAFINSA's and FONEI's fiscal year. In addition, FONEI would set up separate
accounts for its technology development finance program in a manner satisfac-
tory to the Bank. Payment for SECOFI's and CONACYT's studics would be made
directly by NAFINSA, and the relevant accounts and SOEs would be audited by
NAFINSA's independent auditors.
Benefits and Risks
74.    The proposed project is expected to improve and accelerate industrial
technological innovation in Mexico, helping industry to become more competitive
both at home and abroad. These benefits cannot be readily quantified. How-
ever, given the Government's commitment to a gradual opening of the economy and
promoting non-oil exports, the technology development objectives of the project
acquire special importance for the success of the nation's new industrial
strategy.
75.    Analysis of industrial technology development under the project would
help adopt effective incentives for technological innovation at the enterprise
level. The pilot restructuring of four research and development centers would,
besides achieving economies of scale, offer services more responsive to the
needs of private industry, and provide useful experience for designing and
launching broader efforts to strengthen the research and development infra-
structure and to improve the services which can promote new technology in



- 21 -
private industry. The execution of metrology programs would help improve
product quality industrywide and help solve problems of access to recognized
international standards in at least one or two industrial subsectors.
76.    Increased availability of credit on terms suitable to technology risk
investments, the introduction of a broad range of financial instruments, the
selective use of Government subsidies, and improved technical assistannce would
be especially helpful in increasing ind speeding up technology innovation amonig
FONEI's customers. Inatroduction of a conditional lending instrument by FONEI
would be especially beneficial, as it would allow subprojects to proceed which
otherwise might not have been undertaken and help demonstrate the profit poten-
tial of locally-developed technology. A system of post-evaluation of technol-
ogy subprojects, to be developed under the proposed operation, would allow a
detailed retrospective review of technology investments, including their impact
on industrial development.
77.    The proposed project faces one general and five specific risks.  In a
general sense, it is uncertain how quickly Mexico would return to sustained
economic growth and what impact any delay in economic recovery would have on
the demand for technology development finance. Stepped-up Bank supervision
(para. 70) would be helpful in consideiing any adjustment in project design in
a timely manner, if the need arose during project implementation.
7B.    The project would face five additional risks:  (i) delays in further
expanding FONEI's specialized technology staff; (ii) an undesirable slowdown in
SECOFI's analysis of industrial technology development because of continued
understaffing of DGPI; (iii) delays, or altogether a failure, in restructuring
the pilot research and development centers, since some opposition continues to
exist against private participation in ownership of the centers; (iv) slow use
of conditional loans, if they prove less attractive to potential investors than
estimated at appraisal; and Cv) potential financial losses to FONEE and the
intermediaries on account of poor performar.oe or failure of technology sub-
projects.
79.    To reduce some of these risks to acceptable levels, a minimum require-
ment for new staff in FONEI has been established. The Government has already
approved this minimum, and the necessary recruitment is underway. The risk
that restructuring of the centers may not be accomplished under the project has
a low probability; but, even if that risk were to materialize, it would not
impede implementation of other project components, which account for about 83X
of project costs. If the demand for conditional subloans were slower than
expected, the commitment period for subloans would be extended by one year,
which is acceptable. Furthermore, provision has been made for losses in
FONEI's technology loan portfolio in an amount representing 2.5% of new dis-
bursements under conventional loans it expects to guarantee. This is adequate,
considering past performance of the agency's guarantee facilities. A failure
rate of 30% has been assumed in FONEI's conditional loan portfolio, which would
be compensated for by a risk premium varying between 2% and 10% of the ACF.
If, however, as many as 50% of subprojects financed by conditional loans would
fail, the drop in FONEI's income would be less than 3.1%, and the agency's
overall return on equity would still remain positive. Exposure of the finan-
cial intermediaries would be limited to 10% of the total technology loan
portfolio, which is not covered by FONEI's guarantee and accounts for an insig-
nificant portion of the total assets of commercial banks. The modest pilot



- 22 -
equity component of US$5 million for which the intermediaries would bear the
investment risk, would likewise represent a very small percentage of their
overall portfolio.
PARr V - lICWISNDATIOw
80.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachmenits
July 10, 1986



-23-                                                           ANNEX t
Page  1 of  $
Rxt<:~~~~ IOC!A  !CJl1C CURSfl flb                             VMS) q
4&CLW         IlfIatoLI Elora          110034 Wow
unit        uwP±. =5t1wMit            LAT. miSCA a .a AdsWOW
TOTAI*L                                  .       1 . 1  1301.  3g13.5
C   j       CtOIT    (36*.,                            *.         911.5
(RILOCMS  oe 0t. SEUVAtIT)            3 523.0     773.0       3340.0              V93.1                      I3I9.4
vosAns Ait VITAL .rAntsna
P0WULAT0NH1NIfr.A4k (INISAPSE)   37072.0        517.           01.
Unal fCUi.A?tU (R 07 TOTAL)            31.                      "J~4070.?6.
rMAvULflS nwucnlaf
E'oHILAflQU Li TMA  200O (s1LL)                              309.h
ISTATIOSAC POUULATKOI (NLLI                                 9#9.0
NIhIAIIOIU .CIEItWN                                            3.3 
MSi fl. qq*                         Io.$         £3.,         33.0               *31.0                       a.
PO  93. VA. At.1 LAND                27.1        12.6         74.*7              91.134.
FrMAntau  AC  gradUaLg (K)
011 8 u                          43.6          .8         4.25332
61 AIM A3jo                           3.3         3.3          3.4b               '.2
loiSL                                 3.0         3.3          Z.AA                                            .
titia                                 1.3         '.7          &.L                  .                         3.1
came iStun  WC (PO1 11Ws)              11.4       '4.'.         34.0               JO. 3                       21.6
GMMAI giatmAlt (PSI TEaS)              12.2         9.1          *.s                s.0                         a.,
CmliS 311uC12Up )Al%                    2.2         3.1          2.2                 2.0                        1.3
azUPt0U. *ISAL (flTES)                ..         2.1.       1343.Q 14C
USE"5 (IO   uaUmoI  WMUSD)            .....  7c-                                 '3.3
UNO     JOr FMn M m. rn cACti
C196t-VL-100)                         97.0        100.3       100.0               L09.619.
uaOICEs (Z w IKOutIUUUT)           114n.0       334.0        129.0              113.2                       131.3
PmItA  Q (GM   PU OAT)                .1.0
of intoN ANL9.Ill ALM              29._         21.0        28.0 /s             24.2                        3.
dtto aCit 1-4) nQAS  ItATI            tO.?          '.3          2.0                '6-'
mtan
LIP  upw. AT sair. (inn)              17.0         5.3         is.s                64.O                        O.A
13MrO    C   .tr. aAt trum las)       93.0         14.*0       5.0                 Iv.1                       13.3
aCcs_- ot SA aSKn (IMPa )
rOTAL                                fl.s        4Q /.        38.0               634.J                       J.1
1imm                                  ..            I.        H..                76.1                        sv.k
USAL .                                           .0        5.0                 ".2                         s.
OfCorn Ato icut  nr
tTAL                                            V3.0    i.    36.0               16.                         59.
VERDE                                 ..         30.0         * .1                73.*                       15.
<!o   tNlUW(t            )*s4                     4.   L        .                 73n                         r3.1
OMEaL                                 ..'.  I                 1.                 25.3                       6.1.5
UPOPULSZ?IM  M  PWV5ICIaN           1330.0       1510.0)         ..              :909.
POIP. mS WSJIXC Pit"0               3630.0       1330.0          .                 Cdh.
LESS^W    n(r  -                     170I.0 '       1Cb 117.0 ..'2.                                          C.9
mr. Po rusprAL 
TOTAL                                ..        1370.0          ..0 7e1
gsqiur     vu mari mlmOsZ             ..           ,,         o..                 :7g                        :o.
AnuS, S=Sal "30C5s
TOTAL.                               1.4          3.7
cili                                 5.1          5.7
aveux Nor O. rn ituwsia
WZXAQ 1-10. orQ                                   IO:          0.                   b.                        U.
roTAL                               1.9           2.5
lawi                        Z~~~~~~~.6  2.2
tm                                   j..          3.o
FicaiffAcc a, 093Lt5C Mm? ECLC.
dota                                 .           1.0
Cams                                I.             .0S
KRVAL                                ..          27.1



A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z L L .                                L                L L LF 
'~~  | @ . q . . . , 4 . _ @ ~~~~~~~~ t z X , < < _; * _ * W a; _ 4 o C.C,              C.L. C.C- f
*  s * r d  * & * E z4 & * nh6 L           _0 '                         L o  __L_ L                   6      L L o L Z, L 
nES O                              .._  .E                                 _      ..       _*;           V         O,        _
2  ,:!  ]   ;:  ;;   ;  OL_   s  _;_       _s; u    0-      _:       G      _  DDD  Q.Q)    W                   >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6A 
.^*  s X  is                                     "                                               cg r       .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
1>  - Y    t   . .  N w  . .  . " - .   -: z    ,.l ,, ",    _ <    O < @    ; _    _  ^ * *  :*,,  W Q  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -



ANNEX I
25 -                                         Page  3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IPIECATORS
Neo Aithouib the data amta (rm Mues  umIly judpd tlme.au.hmntuwb and iwlbke, it should also be nouse thi hey may not be intnauoiily
compasS. because oft dh lack Of 111JUar111b1r11 aa dff1   aS co   i uN byn im contrit cosir   lls snc tile data. The dan ae,onesohuls, usefu tso
dswenw aerdm  of miaiiudii  minia ts    aSm chadim  cinsa maor dfferen bawem counmnz
The reb-  paoups in 411 Ihe I1     ounio-try grup of thde suba country and I12 a countr grump with somwhat higher awme  maconw than thii CouWtry
poupotdth subes counrY   pi for"High InconmOil Epnmu  tgroup wh"eli  Incme Nonh AIncad Mudi Easc E ichos tncause at ugng I
socwi-cuturIl aflutmL In 1he  am   p  dat dwe avnge - population withltd aihAmeic maritm for ech indicator and shown only -hen may
Ofthi' uc  ut ma poudau for th1 aindicr. Sinee taer eW   otcounnu Smong the m1inton deeds an the nallhililty ofdau and is not kiumim.
eonU mUM be samosad m lnsti averspo"ne imd.ate toassher Them avnr amonly uefWul in companrng th iwalue fone indiator a al tim esng
the country and rfe a  e
AREA (thousand sq.km-                                            Crude N1r  ate fper rhad)-NNumber of live births in the year
reota-Total surfac area comprising lad are  and inland waters   per thotusand of nd-year popuOation: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 19813 data                                       Crude Deah Rare (per romusadj-Number of deaths in the vear
Agvkmurul-_EstinLatc of agricultural area used tempornly or      per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19U3 dat
permanently (or crops pastures, mark etand kitchen gardens or to  GCoss Reproductts Rate-Average number o(daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                            will bear in her normal reproductive penod if she experienmes
presnt age-speak fertulity rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPFTA (Uai-GNP per capita estimate at currnt           in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces cakculatid by same convemrson method as World       Fsrsd  PfMesIsr-Aceprs, Assid (lhaeats)-Annual nurn-
ask Adlar 01981183 hasis): 1913 dlata.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPLnON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparenl                   family planning program.
consumpton of commurnal prmary energy (coal and ligrate.    FPsdLeaas r-Us,r (pereal of eanryd mweret-Thc percen-
petroleum  natural gs and hydro-. nuclear and geothermna elec-   tag of married women of child-beanng age wto are practiing or
ticity) in kilogrm   of ol equivalent per capit  1960, 1970. and  whoe husbands an practicing any form of conlraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
sonie counincs contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIICS                                   group.
retealPopkuie.Mid- YTew (rtbmda)-As of July 1; 1960 1970.       FOOD AND NlJTRmON
and 1983 data.
Iedrez of Food PPdwrieC Per Capta ( 1119- - 100l-lndex or per
Urio  diperoe nretd st cf rii-Raoo of urban to total            capita annual production of all food commoditis. Production
populatronf  dffertnt definitions of urban areas may affet compar-  excludes anunal feed and seed for agnculture. Food commodities
include pnmary commoditis (e g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-          Pvojrcuu                                              which are edible and contain nutrents (e.g. coffee and tea are
Ppultim in year 2000-Tihe projection of population ror 2000.    excluded) they comprise cereals. root crops. pulse  oil seeds.
made for each economy sepately. Starting with mnformation on     vegetables, fruits, nuts, suprcane and supr beets, livestock, and
total populaton by age and se fertilityrates. morality rates,and  livetock products. Aggrepte production of each country is based
intenaziomal migration in the base year 1980. thee paranmenrs    on national aveage producer prce weilghs 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalizcd  1982 data.
assumpdons until the population became statonary.                N Capita Sapply of Calories (purees ofrequaenerifrsn-Comp ut-
Srtationy popularim-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rtes have not changed ovcr a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies compnse domestic produc-
fertility rate have simultaneously remained at replacemnt level  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproducoon rate - I). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agnculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the ae structure is also   food processing, and losses in distnbuuon. Requirenents were
constant, and the growth rate is zaro. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornal activity
sire wa estiated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of declne of fereility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
ate to replacement lvel,                                        waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1912 data.
tpsdionoes Monsenrww-lis the teadency for populion growth to    Par Cape Sapply of Pais (grar pf dqj-Protesn content of
continue beyond the ime that replacementvel fertlity has been    per capica net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for ail countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the yer r is measured as  pronde for minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse proten, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fcrtility remais at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards amlower than those of
ment eved from year  onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protean as an
Ppaatdom Deaap                                                  avenge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km-Mid-yr population per square kilometer ('00 hec       Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data                 Per Captr Proteie Supply brnmAeirsul and P r-Protein supply
her sq.km. aralnrl land--Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulen in grans per day; 1961-65.
land only, 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
bpuohsia Age S9ruerr (pericis5t-Cluldren (0-14 years), work-    Chil (qes 1-4) Deth Rate (per thousa,)-Number of deaths of
ing age (I5-64yeans. and redred (65 yearsandover)aspercentage   children aged  -4 yean per thousant children in the same age
of mid-year populatiowo 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,              group in a given year. For most developing countres data denved
Peps adon  nirawh Rare (pereriursj-wara--Annual growth rates of  from life tabin 1960. 1970 and 1983 daa
total mid-year population for [95-60. 1960-0. and 1970-3.       HEALTH
Ibpulada Grvel Re (perteie)-'hsa-Annual growth rates            Ly  Expectay at BnA (yena)-Nutmber of yeam  a newborn
of urban populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-33 data.      infant would live if prevalling patterns of mortality for ad peopk



A.NNEX   I                                             -  26-
Paie * a  6
at the am. of 01 itn butwe 101137 tm . 11"1t1 throughout Its life h: Fd-ncir Rato -4vuwv. ad secondan-Total sudens en-
t960, 970 and 1983 dat                                         roled ia pnmar  And sonda: level divided by nunber o'
fm3arw &y bra R pr thoautad I-Number of infant who die         tChe in cli conuponding lvel.
before ruching ani ye  of age pe thouad live birth m a gven
Fear. 1960. 1970 mnd 19*3 d_a                                  CONSUMPTIOi
.4ccs to SA  ,W. (pu G                       atwAs ad         Pasnger. Cater-   _ lr mad eam ssenger ;:n com-
4 umber of peopg itosaL urban. azg nun) with reasoble          pns motor car   n;uR ldss than eight pesons, excudcs Aibul-
g to se watr supply. lncldhad  tSud surtmn  wa'ne  or         arm   hear  an militLrv vehacla.
unucarnd but uncontaminated water such a that f om pProcod     made  led ee  (PMr rhoAmend pepiltio.uI-AII types of recerver
bordhoaL spnege and saary willsl AS pcenta af thur mpeC*     for radio broadcat to generl public per thousand of populanon:
uve populati@. ;n an urba ar a public fountau or standpos  c    duda    u4           encngm  countnes and in years when
located no more than 20 m      m a hs may be con                     n  of ddio     wa n ec  data dor             a     may
as being widlie reasonabl aces of dims home to raw            MPWt3il  frdojt  a  n fetdt  a  eatrasm
I22    u fn wOUld itr_I7 that the bousewik or menbers of the   we   oniparabe snce most counries abolied limsig.
reubonucen 14W  cnpty that d  housfe aw mexbn of d             rvftomm   p  hmodpplnw-vrmmfrbod
housdhold do not have tw sped a dioprtonate pan of tJ                        r dayIrrer  per sa   m   rumors (or broads
n fetching the (amnly's wae needs.                            to pUaln public per thousand populatuo: exdudes unlicested TV
.4en to baswe Dlspu 4ree  of           u         ,   ,        remvm es countnes ad in ye:n swnen msuauon oi TV SWr wa
ad r~WNumber of paple (totaL urban, and mral) ervd by         in CreeL
excreta disposl as percentLges of char mspeuve pOpUIaEioNI     %Y'     Ck'caLiri    rhmnd pepSulaup_--Showsv ther-
Exanca disposal may include the collecton and disposaL with or  age circulation oi -daly general mital newspaper.- daired as a
withoUt trune.L of human exaea and watewam by waer-            piodEai publictoon devoted pnmanly to recording gueral news.
born systems or the ux ot pit ptvies and simla islat ionL      It is consdered to be -dady- if it appears at leas four tme a weeiL
Pbdse le p  Phjyssia-Populahoa divided by number of prc.      CGmu  AewWA .dflmndhrv pr C.p.a Per Yew-Based  on the
tiang physcias qualified from a medical school at univenity level.  number of ticket sold dunng the year. ituding admissons to
ftp.teeivi er. N,Vq Nr, wm-Fopulauon divnded by number of     Irveim c         and mobil um4.
prng male and female pduate nunes asant  nurses               LABOR FOltC
pmncl aunts and nunung anulinn
preau    VH          &ursong au   *         dlapao             said         rwg (_hmsaala_po-Econmcly actve perons. in-
Atoeda urb   ad nura  dinded by thea respective %Vnu          chding armed orces and unanpioyed but cxcuding housewve
(tataLurbuLand mm) divW  by tw msmve mmbr of    udents. ecm. coveting populaton of all ages. Dednuuons in
hoil bod available in public a  pivte genea  and spaciahud    vanou countries am not compaable i960. 1970 ad 1983 data,
hospitals and rssauLlaiai centems Hospitals an embsialsunets
pennanely stated by a least one physctan Ismliaisnts pr-       sfi "    rct r-Feniale labor fore a pecentag of total labor
iding pmnojipay custdial cre an not included. Rural hospitals,  foa
howeyg urc de health an  nmel center not pem banty saffed     AgrIshe fpexra-Cabor foace in farnig forcsry. hunung
by a physian fbut by a medical aautL muse, midwife. ec)       and ishinmg as pemng of wal labor room 1960. 1970 and 1910
which offer ic-pamt acummodafon and pnvde a lmted rang        data.
Of medicul facilities.                                        hJa_r  pmar p-labor force in mimng, consatuction. manu-
A.bsj   pe H8pta &vle-Toni number of admissions to or         facrunng and ectnicity. water and gs as pecentage of total labor
dirges rfom hospil divked by the number of btl                force 1960. 970 and 1910 data
fluumi4evie Nrw (prcmnp-vemi4 . and dfinmse-P:artdcipaton
HOUSING                                                       or activiy res are computed   totaL male, and female labor force
Aq'e Sn: of MHewhnd (prs: perh                     mM.       as perenitag  of totaL ,male and rfeal populato  of all ages
emged-A houhold co tsof agroup of indiv b who share           respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data Thee are based an [Las
lvng quater and ther man meals A boarder or ledger may or     participamon rma gOn ;g a-sm ate of the popuLion. and
may not be incld   in dw household for staustical pupoes      long time trend. A rew  naeams an fron natiol sources
.Jv_erwe Vefer of Pan    MP Rer e-at4  as ad           -       Eueeic DepeEdewy Ratie-Ratio of populauon under 15. and
.venge number of persons per room is all urban and  ural      65 and over to the twking age population (those aged 1!-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwelnp eaclude
non-permanent structu  and unaupmd pats                       INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
PMAeamq1 Of DpWay, WM EIa&P-at4 Wien,esd rd -                 Avcauw of Taro Dispessla Irex. I ber i cas aJd hnd)-e
Convennonal dwelinp with eecticity in living quarts a prean-  Acenig to pemole poups ao househoids ranked by total house-
tage of attL urban. and ruAl dwelling r_tecavely.             hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
.44*uvd Esmear Rm,                                            The followng _sums ar very approxiate measures of povet
ptiv.  rhat - rural iwk and fema-i *tous total. mak m         level and sbould be interpreted with consierable caunon.
fmale enrment of all age  t the pumary lewd as prcaen of      Est.dradAhsobt F AUewony Imn Levl t          cS pm
respecive prmary schoola  populaton  Whil many coumm           nd rvd-Absolute povey income levd is that iomie level
consider pnnrry school age to be 6-11 yeum othed   do noL The  below which a mnamal nutntionally adequate dien plw esential
differenean counry practices n the na and dutuon of school    non-food requiements is not affordable.
ane retlected 1n thc ratos giv  For soam counes wh ,unval     Eniand Raive Pbwmy txeonr Leei          pe cepwac-wuhen
edution. gros  rollmet may  ced 10D percet sice mane          and re-FRetim relauve pory income level is one-tbird of
pupils an below or above the coun y's stadard pria-ithool     avegee per cun  person  income Oa the country. Urban leved is
age.                                                          denmed from che rural levl with adjusricnt for hier cost of
Sc5rAmvv school - roral, mote atd femJ-Comnpuzd as abol       Living an urban acs.
scodary educaon aqwres at least four yean of approved pni.    Eba,  Popetaim &ki Abao&r. RiWWM  Incas rdn' rpup.
mary loucoon: provies generaL vocanonL or teaer training      cm p-whe a   rJ_at- Pecent of popwauon i urn   and nural
instruio for pupils usually of 12 to 17 vean oi age: cornespocd  ho are abslute poor.t
once coures are -niey adude
Vocamwnae Eirolm   'pemrent of secondaryiv-Vocatlonal iznstu-           Comparaivve Anayss and Data Divsion
aon include tchnicaL idustral or other profn  which operte            Economic Anslysis ad Proyecuons Depaftment
independtly or au d     _partintt oi sondar V uwiuuoL                                luin 1985



-27-                                                               - 
~~~~ -a-- -l 
am  am    a ~~~m   a       e     n    s  el se-r   .ni m                                 -       U      *
-    -    -    -  -                          -  -  - -l --i
~~~~~~~n w                    4L    13L    ILX   1 1.1|4UL                   L       LU       L1          0110    Lit              II   ILM   nL
utia Emma                                  car as ai, m ula_e.
U                                       U.N    u.n   n.m   m.d.ai = u .               man aS             as     ma    Lul                    149.1    us"   S
IRA  w Wm VW               ,             LI.   45      .L        LU    *1.S *4. 1     .g .S   4.          .      .       .                    -II  IL        4W
nv                                      qL    131.1   I"    34A    if101.  Ml."l  I111.1  1011.9        LIS|   6A|        -4,31                      IOLN 1Z.e   1L.
lS    atNOL. Wu                          9.3   13.L    LU    N."   PL         1Lk    IL31   ItS         1.3   84.5  .31g                       '.4    L 4l    LO
OuM  ini. uN                             LS    sea    nm    21.u*   ILE    1.U1D    31 13       .       t LO    17.5    $.le                  1.U   12.01   1l1n
aur        V-=                          4.4    -iA    .2.11   -1       1.311  .t1   It5        7.11       .      .       .                    -..    ..n a     .n 1
swum                                    11.   101.3  5L3..   sW    t2.51  12.3  sAL    idkf             g.m     L6    -uiln                  IL      1.21   i1.s
in ut|                                 3.3    3..14      .    u.s   ELM       .ti     us    an      t           .3b   .b4.93                 3.5    244      II
mmn..  aim  11..4                                      ILW     111.44   te a    55    41.21   41.       7.0 1A L     -gS          n. I41    3".2            I.3
OC FAUN  I                               1it *   .2 . 4  .E    1.5.9   -111.3  i1U   ' 11.11.            AM    NW    U.L                     'I.E   -2.    4.10
_ ea. [im                               R.*   14.0    E.g11   SIB   PLO    am    UI           U.3S      Li      *      -                      U.n    Lii   14.49
wims                                     am11.    1.1S   1.11   U.N    54.    iLK    I.2    0-.41      Lb    t.        L1i                    C.     LB      .d
IEUUYSe 1mIU                            fli17  414   69.89   74.14   54.111  103.15    51.1   21,4      1.6    LO       IN9                  12.91   IL      3.243
sinu                                    sa      tat|| srn.u ne    siLl   tale   sta    ice'             gm      LW    .43                    1l.5   34.16   31.
1si                                     34.4    n.61           MLD IL  10J    10.36  11.3i  1lN.l       LID.........                .        ......... LO *@.11  P.2    ".Is   M.
it GM  hme ama      ssm                            m.im, V a 'twa
_tlu r11 *_  _a    amYI                                          1443   2431 aITls    in        mm
1al, TUI                                   So         "lo   am        Ia mm          lazm   01      io
o       mma                                       Mr    M               al 1l1   IID    1 S4    711
GIPITIL           .                       tJJ  1S        3111  rDl  41          OM      MS   SW
eis  g       Im am                        anm     -      iu     sm nn1    4n            me    in
iP i. TtAm                                 13      ilIl      ni3          6A1*3  aHim    1*4    33
fl4mgm  sainus                            assN  la       in     urr n    sin     C       s     a
lPUM. Tilt                               lii?    119    23U       tL4    Mif   21110  3413   1I6
whurnnnss CEi at    al MR                                           8M gm1   11.11      "a    a;
wadgsa n                                IS?   .li       343   -i        fl    314    544l    5
41111FAI           S3   It                        11 149                       51      1i    Iso
MM lin   11.15511rc
leIt "g11 two11 1.                                       . I           a      i       U.I  53141
me  Rim  tao                            aLn    sO    a.D 11.1  61a e            ii      .4  aLll
tAWUr                                  54.44    4.4  3SO.44  U4LU2  5"411    SI   Slit   ALM
CPllTU                                  If..   all  65.5   13.ri n.1r n.n3: 1111.3
sam  ma11t [P-mal                       114    31.40    1.e5   juLS   15I1  SILK    MU11  .Li
aMKiamO PAKz sn Flow II 413
c   m arUPie                            ILI?    LU11   113.11  19.12  2L.0   IL"       La.   n-s
0052 miDfhi                              iBIS   lp11.1   5.3   14.13   3.31   lLU    26.    71.5
CI?                                                      LU l   -l l a 4.3 AD    -IS    *.a   -1.1a  -L.
cRITz irniiw                             4.25  [Li 4     .44   ILDU    lI.b     .2    4.11    6.44
DEFICIT SfI                             -LW0   -I.Y4   21.6  .1434  .11.41    1.1   4.3   -.10
LdtIN P P1M Pi                                                                                                                               I I  ll
.,...  .. ... ...   .     ....  .
Et.u ElIflaliTS  'Wa  ilium Sill                                                                                                              m--
con                            ~~~~~~~~~~~if  11.14  2i  U    U
TIilflT 65 ClNuicfllm                ~~.0   11.41  '1.32   41.6                                                                 LY
SIAL 11~Armu                                    %141  ItSI   n.hI  In."314
155114  mu                    .    249~~~~~~~1.    FL"4  i4.19  23.35                                                           LOI
Isle.    a Comm:                                124   34.91  52-1.  162.4,                                                                 13.61
faiit . as WmKwan                             1.5   53.    MI".5   143"tj
raim                                            LU      4.15    r      Lnn u.n
..fcau   Ml                                    14.43  111.41  2440.44  194.4                                                               9.IN
I.IUMKA  ~  ~      ~     ~     * 135*  43.118  IRA5  11443                                                                      IL"
C,..                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~ILS.  444.4  27.16  ML6.'a
MI4."  14413   MW2  MI3.X
Il mm   a M               tai
ION4    meg                    ws    am                                             life5an  to            V9M    Ito
OalDESt                                 4.41    nIt    LbIf                                          s.c.m                         L              C.31i  1.1
IhIJITH                                2.11    4.45                   5.32   24.14                  &iy                    ILII   23.91          115.11  lo,"3
ISWOIZIJ                                3.41    L V.                 68.4   it-ap                    LaB                    4*1   11.3           atm6    mIiio
lilt                                   12.14   ILSl                  315.44  sl-is                   LO                     r.a     .iu          191.0  ate4
if P0.60 15511      w
j1 awo ;ina It er mum.  s ma canuw weal reman  ma
Si VW Io P191 taa an Itafo as mzmTag wmum a MSDOSn elSiM I.
Li 1154 IN    iL RNim WMI lD Pi WM.
Mi StiLlSE.
SinVP,, imuisnra   Fi, a  M     s gwWmini                        R sr  IM6



- 28 -
NAMr VW7, 13m wMra  r Or                                                      uI r
IIIC F=M  *1  "im                                                                          NE A OF 6
IM       1973     I          E IT  SI         1`I1Ms   IM                                                     -   & p
Swow? tKE  V P0121011
EP $ES 21K1       NM   I                       3S1?      A7M    2S2       294J 0    2114     271U      0413    213
IWMIu  ll IIIIVWIIF V)                          32       "l       243259    34420    20201    12M      IS 16231  fl
RENNEt lIL                                      -745    -1117    -73       -t419      5942    141      1416U     7
MET FACTOR 11[                                  -479    -1459    4693    -750   -S1lid    -9459   -I20tU        -112
I2ITEREST P31NE31)                             -M*    -2012    -1473    -         -12233   -14291   -1115    -I31
aREu   CW   tLM                                 -1t4     -c7      -m72    -1234      -6a2      sml      sV        -m
POINTE 111c6 I2UEITI                              ltU      24      1254    116      125?       4fi      391      400
PUBLIC IN.       Ll MIM tOl   IlNt                21       211     4576     942513    1479     201        is   -2325
DISUSRYEIfI                                    623      1422     UN      I2M3       059OS    t0l      2433     2177
RE P1A91n0                                     547      4150     4024     371       40       3420     25        3493
IMF I  I2T                                        -         -      -121     -137       221     149      29        90
OTSEIE   IAt L                                    100     4274     254,    2753    -6174    -5223    -2213   -2114
OM      IN NERE  (-IEUEe                         -l02     -1ii    -2423      -12      4733    -WI    -343.2       S0e
SSRkLLICAIIM                                       45       -        74        10       -
GRAN All LOW CUUITNElII
PIIIC IH. A I Ll.  imu
IRD                                           IS.LE    311.1   0.40   2022.40   531.90   749.33   514.30   921.3
IDA                                              ...        .       ..       ...      ...      ..       ..
011E3 MLriLATOBL                              112.40   121.3   3.03   291.30  103.3    29.10   404.10
GDVERM I                                       79.90   245.3   990.90   a72.50  1171.13   224.70   22.10
SJuPLIUA                                       10.o0  1247,60   G5.3    201.00   21.20   331.70   201.50
UNK5  411 FIICIIL INSTIT IIEN                37.40  33.40  474.30  nIL. hD  649.30  o9.00  S15.tO
DEBT1 AN NENT SERICE
PUBLIC 1(3T SITAITU1   M    OiSrn            3234.30 224a.40 33571.00 42173.50301I.5   1221.700 411404 97L.00                                              (lSEITEL KIT
(EN   F F-EIlED                                                                                                                                    ----------
INEREST O  PLIC KIT                           294.40   323.70   0.40  4700.90        5.35   0.30   7TSIL.10                                           0U75TAIDIN  Ml DISINSER
RIEPh121T5 U1 PFLZ  MT                        47.40   153.70  409.10  3494.20  332O.93  3303.90  2434.50                        --                 --------------------
PUBIC BEET SERICE  1EI I                      02.40  152.40   1.50  3397.20  91.40  994.20  4912.20                                                        ON KE. II. 1.64
9UIEIN 0E ERPUT (          UlIM   VF                                                                                               P1LIC M I L.T.
PSILIC KET SERIM  I1I                    22.20    23.29    12.94    29.14    15.14    36.44    52.75                              LO* 1ILLIONS  PERCENI
liJi 321l    4.4
AVERSE TNI  F PLIC EI m lieuT                                                                                                      OTIE  DFF. 5G111110                      SD10     4.41
a.  INTItEST AS I EF PRIP ?E0S                7.40    20.10    11.20    24.00    14.35    I3.o1    11.24                         1t10 P3I94E                            5"972    3.05
B.G. A 0 L                                                                                                                   15u2 S
A AilAME 3T1 T1  OF S0  LS                     -        .90     9.10      3.70m    .9"       .40     9.20
(WEID)                                                                                                                     TOTST                                  66443    140.00
16FD EXPRtE
a.  120  3.11. An  D. AS I V                 11.20     9.15     A.15      5.74     5.15     4.03     4.05
PUBLIC 3.0. 411 I.
I. 13It DEIT 50ICES AS I OF V.13                      7.34     3.25      3.1,     3.49     1.29     3.29
PUBLIC DENT SERVICES
…----- - -   -                                                                                            -   -----------    -----  ---------         --------- -----------------
I 1 FALL        lI6ES   I D TOBE 0A   LMWE T   PUNBIC RET i?  muS'.
21  OA I      EI    BIL PICE  S       2    R ELa.
S.. 4r A LML  SEPM        IITL ElI 10131   311TE T1T1L.
UtES.  i3    V ititC,l,I   STAFF E111310.
FE        Zr, £.I



- 29-                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1986)
LOAN                                                             AMOUNT LESS    UNDIS-
NO.     YEAR      BORROWER             PURPOSE                 CANCELLATIONS   BURSED
61 loans fully disbursed                       4,001.19
1706-5    L979      NAFINSA    Irrigation                             92.00        39.11
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA    Industry                              175.00        18.00
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA    Small/Medium-Scale Mining              40.00         7.90
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA    Irrigation                            160.00       128.25
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA    Small/Medium-Scale Industry           100.00         0.46
1908      1981      NAFINSA    Irrigation                             23.00         0.90
1913      1981      BANOBRAS   Water Supply                          125.00        49.96
1929      1981      EANOBRAS   Railways                              150.00        13.00
1945      1981    14AFINSA    Rainfed Agriculture                    264.60        68.77
1964      1981      BANPESCA   Port Development                        5.45         0.96
1990      1981      BANOBRAS   Urban Development II                  164.00       110.94
2043      1982      NAFINSA    lntegrated Rural Development          175.00        49.93
2100      1982      NAFINSA    Irrigation Rehabilitation II           65.00        55.62
2142      1982      NAFINSA    Capital Goods Industry                152.30       102.37
2154      1982      NAFINSA    Pollution Control                      25.00        13.65
2191      1983      NAFINSA    San Fernando Agriculture               48.40        27.25
2194      1983      BANOBRAS   Urban Engineering                       9.20         6.06
2262      1983      NAFINSA    Agricultural Marketing                115.00        72.16
2281      1983      BANOBRAS   Third Water Supply                    100.30        76.81
2325      1983      NAFINSA    Third Small/Medium Industry           175.00        45.20
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT  Export Development                    350.00       218.08
2428      1984      BANOBRAS   Highways                              200.00       125.81
2450      1984      BANPESCA   Ports                                  76.30        67.12
2525 3/   1985      NAFINSA    Chiapas Rural Roads                    22.00        22.00
2526      1985      NAFINSA    Chiapas Agricultural Devel.            90.00        90.00
2546      1985      NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Mining 11          105.00       105.00
2559      1985      NAFINSA    Vocational Education                   81.00        72.30
2575      1985      BANOBRAS   Railways V                            300.00       280.61
2610      1986      NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                   180.00        94.06
2612      1986      BANOBRAS   Low-Income Housing                    150.00       141.79
2658 3/   1986      NAFIN      Proderith II                          109.00       109.00
2665 31   1986      BANOBRAS   Earthquake Rehabilitation             400.00       400.00
2666 3/   1986      BANOBRAS   Municipal Strengthening                40.00        40.00
2669 3/   1986      BANOBRAS   Solid Waste Pilot                      25.00        25.00
TOTAL                                            8,293.74
Of which has been repaid to the Bank             1,657.12
Total now outstanding                            6,636.62
Amount sold                   92.34
of which has been repaid    92.34                    0.00
Total now held by Bank 2/                        6,636.62
Total undisbursed                                           2s678.07
l/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  Signed, but not yet effective.



-30-                           ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
FISCAL                                                                   US$ MILLIONS
YEAR          OBLIGOR                     TYPE OF BUSINESS           LOAN  EQUITY  TOTAL
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/               Industrial Equipment          0.8    --       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul             0.5    --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/             Twist Drills                  0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68     y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                            2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                       Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/         Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. 1/ Construction Equipment           --      2.0    2.0
1970     Mlners del Norte, S.A. 1/        Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -        1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A. 1/    Textiles                        12.0    --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. 1/  Pulp and Paper                  2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.           Cement                       15.9    -      15.9
to 1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                        1.0    0.3    1.3
L975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                    Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper               10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatas Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                  19.0    --    19.0
1979/84  Cementoe Tolteca, S.A. 3/        Cement                      168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                          --      3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A.3/ Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 37/  Particleboard                  25.0    --    25.0
1980     Vidrio PLano de Mexico
S.A. 3/                       Flat Class                  114.9    --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                      110.0    --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A.3/  Pulp and Paper                  59.5    --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A. 3/                       Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                    Motor Vehicles
and Accessories             3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capitai Goods Facility 4/        Industrial Equipment        100.0    --   100.0
1985     Proteison                        Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex 3/                                                     16.4    --    16.4
Total Gross Conmitments                                     705-7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                   558.1   22.1  580.2
Total Commitments Now Held by [FC                           147.6   26.1  173.7
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                  146.3    6.5  152.8
1/   Investments which have been Fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.
4/   Fending cancellation.



-7 31 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO:  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:             About 12 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                       NAFINSA/SECOFI/CONACYT/FONEI
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:            September 1984
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:           August 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                April 1986
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             October 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Frequent, brief supervision missions, including review of most large
FONEI subprojects.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  FONEI's research and development investment loans (para. 55) and
equity loans (para. 61) to carry interest rates in accordance with
CIRA;
(b)  FONEI technology subloans to carry an interest rate equivalent to
94Z of the ACF; amendment of GIRA in this respect would be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 57);
(c)  Government to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to
provide FONEI with funds, as needed, to avoid adverse financial
effects of FONEI's grants and interest subsidies under the
technology development program (para. 59);
(d)  FONEI conditional loans to carry an interest rate equivalent to 110Z
of ACF (para. 60);
(e)  SECOFI to complete technology development and metrology studies not
later than September 30, 1987 and exchange views with the Bank on
studies' conclusions (paras. 66 and 68); and
(f)  FONEI to establish a post-evaluation system for technology
subprojects by June 30, 1987 (para. 70).



I.r
~~~ MerIcohI+\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ni rf(  '. I  '   A.A4I  It A
* q   .'                                - J
-'           ......9  rj..~,, iiryi'     1 .....
;  18.1 .,                            ...  tJVaI"e;1' .                            [  .   -B  
-.   ;'               Ir                                ,                 \N
1                      ~ ~~~~~~~~~4 1. 
*8!,                                      -        8 51-  .  -                             -I3t
INju
AU..ol~~~ ol-e..
20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 
I                                 -M -- 0
IE 02'sV#l'fls    4                             .                        \           _                               1.,, ,,,,r,
':4'''  '   '  i                              ;.            '.I 
itt'                                           "'            S       "                       'M-;le
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            -    -                
. ^^.   | .                             I                         M;;n;r; r~~~~.  . 
i ...... 1" s.f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. iS,^'''-s si..11
A~1.                            'It' 3
^                     ~~~~~~MozIaneS\-         
lSJo  st2itai 
\    At"Nt llP"Nt 
-  A t . O t-   -VM          7
|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tI,rrc o                                                   '         .&Js
|fEDCTL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                         .          E   M. o ,pirno *b
MItES tJ                IOV                 r
.5 tilt .a, , - r. W>a' St*s  ,/a1.n................... ,,  'A,A .s _t1A  Aw  _   ,.-
6. a i   ts.n.' r    S    do       v.s4  .s./ 51. w5  r.4  As  _.5f . -
ufiiuSts *r frSWr *Ar- 3oqs' .ISr..S. t5.fa..s. *.,.* .._.....
.t.eiSc. .9t S.ai t_S4
IItI^



lIk II V @iSS 1
-$8-'  M  E X I C O
la     Noironol capital
-()    .Info rapilols
rI',ncipal cities or lownq
Noovon I 0.d0                                                                                       livdncd highways
,,  , F1                                                                                   Selected main roads
.   Railroads
A~~~~~~~~~~~A
X   s;z>                                      A      P,rincipil airports
i -1- '   ;        nocW; 
Miro
i   ,   .
Ac pt'ica                                                                                Tol GU,Cd thnde
2               '        ijSd {nii.I                                                                                                              Pt IiA
- %oc- 1;1lMrbr)                                    r I I,I-n   A *
-   Q' oreXtoro,^  K,. U.i,                                                                                                                             It]lll..o,
4,    i;       (ochuParFro                                                                       Cnrnpeche  I
InnO, t % _e . 0ia.p                                                                            And)TZ
,,.,                              I'                    1l               .tlIaxalo.,                       1
Cuernorioco    / o Puh                   t~jr                                      .                                         ,, tChino
Nz>oXc         -n ._
lo*~-or'.  9V r i*                                  luh- . I  r.l  
Doxa. "snn                                                          N.r                     [Al-I'M  01
Acapulco0W~~~~Toacul-;                                                                                       _>1lI.llR\
,~ ~ ~~ii,itcn,0                                                       -'                              __ ,LET[ L A       /.



