Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5925-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 11, 1986
Industry Department
Energy and Industry Staff
Tlis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January 1 - December 31
Exchange Rates
(average M$ per $)
1980             22.9
1981             24.5
1982             57.2
1983            135.2
1984            176.5
1985            257.0
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACF       - Index of Average Cost of Funds, the Bank's acronym for CPP
CPP       - Costo Promedio Porcentual
CONACYT   - Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
DGN       - Direccion General de Normas (SECOFI)
DGPI      - Direccion General de Promocion Industrial (SECOFI)
FOMIN     - Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
FONEI     - Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
FONEP     - Fondo Nacional de Estudios y Proyectos
GDP       - Gross Domestic Product
GIRA      - General Interest Rate Agreement
nMIT      - Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones Tecnologicas
INFOTEC   - Servicio de Informaion Tecnologica
ITD       - Industrial Technology Development
LANFI     - Laboratorios Nacionales de Fomento Industrial
LDC       - Less Developed Country
NAFINSA   - Nacional Financiera, Sociedad Nacional de Credit&
NIC       - Newly Industrialized Country
PVP       - Sistema de Pagos al Valor Presente (Present Value Payment
Scheme)
R&D       - Research and Development
SECOFI    - Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (Ministry of
Commerce and Industry)
SHCP      - Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit)
SPP       - Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto (Ministry of Planning
and Budgeting)
UNESCO    - United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization
TDU       - Technology Development Unit (FONEI)



FOR OmCLc USE ONLY
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................................    1
II.  INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT IN MEXICO ................    4
A.  Background ..*.. .......................................    4
B.  Level and Distribution of ITD Activity in Mexico .......         5
C.  Economic Environment Constraint ..... ................           7
D.  ITD Policy Constraint ....................... ... .8
E.  Infrastructure Support Constraint               ......           9
F.  Financing Constraint ...................................    10
G.  Scope for Improving ITD ..... .. ...............     ..........   12
H.  Government ITD Plans for 1984-88           .......................   12
T.  The Bank's ITD Lending Strategy in Mexico        ..............   14
III.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND BANK LOAN           .........................   15
A.  Project Objectives and Composition .....................   15
B.  Project Cost and Financing .............................   20
C.  Loan Amount, Terms and Conditions ......................   21
D.  Procurement and Disbursement           ...........................   23
E.  Accounts and Audit . .............. ............ ...........   23
F.  Supervision and Monitoring .....        ........................   24
G.  Project Benefits and Justification .....................   24
H.  Project Uncertainties and Risks         ........................   25
I.  Environmental Impact        ...................................   26
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....... ..                     .     26
List of Annexes
1.  ITD Policy Responsibility ....................................   29
2.  ITD Infrastructure .......................................    30
3.  Specialized ITD Financing ....................................    32
4.  Current Bank Support for ITD . ............................... .   34
5.  FONEI and Its Technology Development Program ..............     ...   35
6.  Chronogram of Preparation Infrastructure Components .. ........  55
7.  Loan Disbursement Schedule .........................................   56
8.  List of Selected Documents in Project File ...          ................   57
This report is based on a mission in August 1985 led by Bjorn Wellenius
(Senior Economist) and including Cecile Ramsay (Financial Analyst), Julian
Pavon, Steffan Peiser, Francisco Sercovich and Hangsup Shim (Consultants).
Stephen Ettinger, Yutaka Suzuki, Antonio Tarnawiecki and Luis Marco
participated in project preparation.
This document hu a stricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the perfofmace
Of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TKcUW~CY urnLOAN
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SINKRY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFINSA)
Giusrutor:     United Mexican States
RDn-ficlary:   Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (SECOFI)
Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial (FONEI)
Amount:        US$48.0 million equivalent
Terms:         15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Term:          NAFINSA would pass on through the Government nearly 96% of
loan funds to FONEI and the balance 4% to SECOFI. The
Government would repay the principal of the Bank loan, pay
interest and all other charges and assume the foreign
exchange risk. FONEI would onlend funds through financial
intermediaries for conventional and conditional technology
subloans to industrial enterprises at interest rates to the
intermediaries not less than 88% and 104% of the average
cost of funds to the banking system (ACF), respectively. On
conditional subloans, FONEI would charge an additional risk
premium. FONEI would likewise onlend funds for industrial
enterprises to invest in research and development (R&D)
centers, at interest rates not less than 94% of ACF to the
intermediary. The intermediaries would take a margin of 6%
of ACF. FONEI would additionally onlend funds to financial
intermediaries, at an interest rate of not less than ACF
plus one percentage point, for them to take equity positions
in industrial firms. Maturities would be up to 13 years,
including a maximum grace period of 3 years for conventional
and conditional technology subloans and 5 years for equity
loans. R&D investment loans would have up to 10 years
maturity including 5 years of grace. FONEI would offer, as
an option, the Present Value Payment System (PVP) in order
to ease the cash flow of borrowers.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would be the Bank's first to support
exclusively industrial technology development in Mexico.
Its three main objectives would be to (a) review instruments



- 2 -
and related measures designed to encourage industrial
technology development; (b) strengthen technology
infrastructure and metrology services; and (c) expand and
improve FONEI's specialized financing program. These
objectives would be achieved through five components:
(i) ind-strial technology development analysis;
(ii) sxrengthening of technology infrastructure through
feasibility studies and private industry investments in
restructured R&D centers; (iii) strengthening of metrology
services by assessing the needs of the industrial sector and
programs for initial improvement of metrology services; and
(iv) specialized finance for technology development
investments of industrial enterprises; and (v) institutional
strengthening of FONEI. The project would help accelerate
industrial technological innovation, thereby helping private
firms compete in domestic and export markets. Increased
availability of funds on terms suitable for industrial
technology development projects, selective use of government
subsidy, and improved assistance in identification and
formulation of subprojects are expected to result in more,
larger or earlier technological improvements in
participating firms. Project benefits would continue to
accrue after project completion.
-isks:         This operation would face some uncertainty in that delays in
economic recovery could reduce demand for technology
development finance. It would also face five project
specific risks: delays in expanding FONEI's specialized
staff, in implementing SECOFI's policy and metrology
components, and in restructuring R&D centers; s'-ow demand
for FONEI's conditional loans; and potential financial
losses due to failure of subprojects. To deal with some of
these risks, Government has already authorized expansion of
FONEI staff and recruitment is underway; feasibility studies
for the R&D centers have been completed and investment plans
are under preparation with the assistance of consultants.
Delays in restructuring the four centers would not
jeopardize other project objectives, while a slack demand
for conditional loans would only extend the commitment
period for subloans by one year. Furthermore, adequate
provisions have been made for potential losses under FONEI's
conventional and conditional technology loans. The
probability that these risks will materialize is low and the
arrangements proposed to., deal with them are satisfactory.



-3 -
Estimsted Cost:                         Foreign       Local        Total
US$ Millions
Policy Analysis                           0.1          0.7           0.8
R&D centers
Studies and promotion                 -            0.2           0.2
Investments                           5.5          8.2          13.7
Metrology services
Studies                               0.1          0.2           0.3
Initial metrology improvement         1.3          1.3           2.6
Line of credit                           19.4         55.6          75.0
Technical assistance to FONEI             0.5          0.1           0.6
BASE COST                            26.9         66.3          93.2
Contingencies
Physical                                0.7          1.0           1.7
Price                                   0.8          1.1           1.9
Subtotal contingencies                1.5          2.1           3.6
TOTAL COST                           28.4         68.4          96.8
_ _
World Bank                    28.4          19.6          48.0
FONEI/Government/CONACYT       -            33.8          33.8
Industrial Enterprises         -            15.0          15.0
TOTAL       28.4          68.4          96.8
=              -      
Estimated                                       USS Millions
Disbursiens
Bank FY   87       88      89      90       91      92
Annual              7.4     9.1    10.8      9.9     6.9      3.9
Cumulative          7.4    16.5    27.3    37.2    44.1    48.0
Staff
Xeport:   No. 5925-ME, June 10, 1986.



II. INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMIENT IN MEXICO
A. Background
Industrial Sector
2.01      Over the past three decades, Mexico's manufacturing industry
developed into one of the leading sectors of the economy: its share in GDP
rose from 17Z in 1950 to 24% in early 1980s, currently generating roughly
one out of eight jobs in the country. The engine of growth had been an
import-substitution strategy which provided high protective barriers,
together with tax breaks and subsidies. As a result, Mexican industry has
remained largely uncompetitive, with a limited export base.
2.02      In the wake of the 1982 economic and financial crisis, the
domestic market collapsed and industrial growth came to an abrupt halt.
After a drop in industrial production during 1981-1983, the industrial
sector began a recovery as output grew 4.8Z in 1984. But this upswing
stemmed from a recovery of the domestic market and, to a minor extent, from
rising exports that were encouraged by the drastic devaluation of the
peso. Given the Government's commitment to a gradual opening of the
economy that was initiated in 1985, prospects for further growth are good.
But, it would have to be achieved through substantially increased exports
and efficient import substitution; the recent fall in oil prices has made
this even more urgent. This will require Mexican industry to adjust by
becoming competitive both abroad and at home. Without significant technol-
ogy improvement, Mexico's industry cannot face this challenge; hence the
central importance of industrial technology for the country's economy over
the years to come.
The Nature of ITD
2.03      Industrial technology development (ITD) comprises a variety of
activities ultimately aimed at the firms' utilization of specialized
technical knowledge for improving or developing industrial pro"aucts snd
processes. ITD largely takes place within the industrial firm. Buiilding
up domestic ITD capability, and achieving a balance between foreign and own
sources of technological change, are essential components in developing an
industrial sector which is efficient, can adjust to changing markets and
resources, and is able to export. In the less developed countries (LDCs),
ITD is often confined to the selection, acquisition and operation of
technology and minor improvements in the course of operation. Technology
is largely acquired from abroad, mainly embodied in imported industrial
plants, equipment and intermediate goods. At a more advanced stage,
leading firms in newlv industrialized countries (NICs, e.g., Argentina,
Mexico, Brazil, India, Korea) add considerable domestic value to imported
technology, through local design, engineering and pursuit of quality. For
this they utilize a mix of in-house resources and services provided by
local engineering firms, research and development (R&D) organizations and



- 5 -
sometimes higher education centers. Technology is imported ore selective-
ly and unbundled mainly as product and process licenses, some plant and
equipment designs, technical services to solve specific problems, and
quality assurance methods, instrumentation and reference standards.
Mastery allows the firms to improve the acquired technology as well as
increase the firm's capability to handle subsequent technology problems. A
stock of technology knowledge, expertise and nanagement skills is built up
in the firms and specialized institutions and gradually disseminated
through subcontractor development, personnel mobility, provision of techni-
cal services and participation in higher education. Technology exports
become significant, and technology trade imbalance and dependence is
reduced. In mature industrial economies, technological capability is
widely spread throughout industry, basic research plays a large role as a
source of technological change, and product quality, production efficiency
and pace of innovation are roughly comparable among countries.
Justification and Forms of Government Intervention
2.04      Governments in all industrialized nations, most NICs and some
LDCs have adopted measures, including various subsidies, to stimulate ITD.
This is justified mainly on three grounds. First, social returns from ITD
are higher than pr!yate returns, due to external benefits (diffusion of
specific knowledge, development of specialized manpower and innovation
management skills, and contribution to building up a competitive business
environment). Second, investments in ITD are often considerably riskier
than those for other industrial activities, due to technical as well a'
market uncertainties. ITD may therefore be unacceptable to the individual
firm, despite being desirable to society as a whole in the context of a
large and more diversified investment portfolio. And third, even when
entrepreneurs are willing to invest in ITD, gaps in the capital market
inhibit financing these activities (Annex 3).
2.05      Government support for ITD in various countries comprises a mix
of policy, investment and institution development measures. Industrial,
trade, credit, foreign investment and taxation policies, although not
specifically directed to ITD, strongly influence the firms' demand for lTD
and the relative use of foreign and domestic resources to meet these
needs. Explicit ITD policies include fiscal and financial incentives such
as grants and subsidized credits for ITD investment, public sector procure-
ment used to promote development of domestic suppliers, regulation of
technology importation, and protection of industrial property rights.
Governments also promote ITD by investing in R&D capability of public and
parastatal industry, developing an Infrastructure of Industrial R&D and
information services to support industry in general, and establishing and
funding specialized ITD financing agencies.
B. Level and Distribution of ITD Activity in Mexico
2.06      Governments since the 1950s, but especially from 1970, have
actively sought to strengthen Mexican ITD capability, mainly by building up
public sector R&D agencies. More recent measures include fiscal incen-
tives, public sector purchase programs, regulation of technology imports,
and specialized ITD financing.



- 6 -
2.07      While the proportion of Mexican GDP spent in industrial R&D
(about 0.2%) is comparable to Brazil and Argentina, it is at the low end of
the range for NICe and more advanced nations, despite a considerable
expansion of total R&D (all sectors) from 0.17% of gross domestic product
(GDP) in 1970 to 0.51% in 1982. Total R&D expenditure in 1984-88 is
expected to remain at about 0.5% of GDP ($600 million per annum). Table 1
gives further details.
2.08      Furthermore, this expansion of R&D has largely failed to reach
private firms. Of Mexico's total R&D expenditure (all sectors), about 87%
is incurred by public sector agencies (compared with Brazil about 60Z,
Korea 30% and USA 20%) and about 90% is financed by them (Brazil 67%, Korea
41%, USA 48%). Industrial R&D reflects this, albeit less acutely. The
public sector accounts for about 70% of industrial R&D expenditure and
financing. Despite Government attempts to support ITD industrywide, about
96% of public sector funds for industrial R&D are spent by public and
parastatal agencies.2/
2/ Private sector R&D has not been well quantified.  The above figures are
based on assuming that of total Mexican R&D expenditure, 10% is
financed by the private sector, of which 90% is spent in industrial
R&D; 80% is financed by the Federal Government budget, of which 19% was
spent in industry (1980-83) including about 4% channeled to private
industry; and 10% is financed by parastatal industrial firms. Under
different assumptions, the public sector's participation of industrial
R&D expenditure and financing vary in the ranges of 51%-76% and 56%-81%
respectively, and the proportion of public sector industrial R&D funds
spent within the public sector varies between 91%-96%, which does not
materially change the above qualitative conclusions.



- 7 -
Table 1: R&D EXPENDITURE, 1982
Industrial R&D    Industrial R&D
R&D expenditure   as % of total        expenditure
as % of GDP     R&D expenditure    as Z of GDP
Argentina                     0.5                  26              0.1
Brazil                        0.6                 28               0.2
Spain                         0.6                 56               0.3
Korea (Republic of)            0.9                 42              0.4
Canada                         1.2                43               0.5
United Kingdom                 2.1                 62               1.3
Japan                          2.5                58                1.5
Hungary                        2.6                 61               1.6
USA                            2.7               n.a.              n.a.
Mexico                         0.5                 35               0.2
Sources:  Mexico:   Movilizacion de Recursos de Ciencia y Tecnologia para
el Desarrollo de Mexico,- CONACYT, February 1985 and mission estimates.
Other: UNESCO Statistical Yearbook, 1984. -Industrial refers to manufac-
turing (which on average accounts for 87% of total R&D shown), extractive
industries and utilities. Some figures are for years other than 1982:
Canada 1981, Argentina 1980, Spain and UK (column 1) 1978, Brazil (column
1) 1977, UK (column 2) 1975. For Mexico, column 1 is for public sector
only (including private sector it is about 0.6) and the figure in column 2
is estimated (varies between 27% and 41% depending on assumptions).
2.09      Concentration of industrial R&D effort in the public sector
reflects in in-house industrial technology capability being mostly confined
to large parastatal enterprises, firms associated with multinational
corporations, and a small number of mostly large private enterprises.
Smaller firms often lack the management, technical knowledge, manpower and
financial means to undertake technological innovation, and often have
difficulty in formulating their ITD problems and needs in forms that lead
to operational and bankable projects. Even a number of relatively large
firms have imported technology extensively and done little to adapt and
develop it, remaining essentially dependent on outside sources. The short-
ages of in-house R&D capability are compounded by insufficient orientation
of the public sector R&D infrastructure towards private industry's demands
for technology support, and by the lack of an effective system of industri-
al standards, metrology and quality assurance.
C. Economic Environment Constraint
2.10      These problems partly stem from an economic environment which in
the past did not generate a large demand for domestic industrial ITD. From
the 1940s to 1970, protectionist policies directed towards import substitu-
tion resulted in rapid industrial growth. However, industry remained



- 8 -
highly fragmented and dependent on imported capital equipment, efficient
production scale was achieved in only a few subsectors, and there was
neither much competitive pressure on industrial enterprises in the domestic
market nor a drive to export. Correspondingly, industrial enterprises
generally developed little need or internal capability for technological
innovation. When in 1970 Mexico experienced a short-lived attempt to open
its economy, markets and investment expanded rapidly and the internal
demand for industrial technology grew. However, industry's limited techno-
logical capability could not meet this sudden rise in demand. In response,
large parastatal enterprises set up or expanding associated technology
development facilities. Mexican subsidiaries of multinational enterprises
obtained the necessary new know how from their parent companies, some large
private Mexican industrial conglomerates established enterprises specializ-
ing in technology while others developed in-house R&D facilities, and
Government stepped up efforts to promote R&D and developed an infrastruc-
ture with some industrial support capacity. But with the reversal of
economic policies toward a highly protected import-substitution model, most
industries found it less risky and--with a gradually overvalued peso less
costly to purchase foreign technology, which did not reflect Mexico's
long-term comparative advantage. Such purchases were made all the more
attractive by the country's promixity to the USA.
D. ITD Policy Constraint
2.11      Limited ITD capability partly also reflects imperfections in the
Government's policies to promote ITD (Annex 1). Fiscal incentives for ITD
have been tried: a tax credit for up to 20% of company investment in ITD
was available in 1981 and 1982, and some enterprises are now granted tax
breaks for ITD as part of investment packages negotiated with Government in
priority subsectors or regions. Industry's response has been limited,
however, partly the result of the incentives' short time horizon, uncer-
tainty about their permanence, cumbersome administration, and relative
unimportance in the context of other large subsidies to industry and other
factors affecting investment decisions. Regulation of technology imports
(mainly patent licenses and technical services, worth about $300 million
per annum) in the past focused on weeding out allegedly abbsive practices
by suppliers. More recently it also seeks to guide firms in their choices
of technology and sources, and to promote actions by the firms to enhance
assimilation of imported technology. Government's comparative advantage to
carry out these tasks, and the merits of the specific assimilation
strategies being pursued, are uncertain. Use of public sector purchases to
encourage ITD by Mexican suppliers has been limited by administrative
restrictions, preference for straightforward importation of goods from
established foreign sources, inadequate technical and business information
to prospective contractors, and 7.ack of credit to finance their sales in
terms comparable to those of foreign suppliers.
2.12      These explicit policies to promote ITD (and development of ITD
infrastructure and financing, discussed below) have generally been designed
and applied independently from one another, and from relevant implicit



- 9 -
policies -e.g., taxation, which may influence the firms' propensity to
undertake risky investments, and foreign industrial investment, which
includes major technology transfers. Also, in revising specific policies
(e.g., a new decree on fiscal incentives for industry in general), little
attention has been given to the systematic assessment of Mexico's and other
relevant countries' past experiences.
E. Infrastructure Support Constraint
2.13      Mexico's considerable industrial R&D infrastructure (Annex 2),
almost entirely in the public sector, is largely unresponsive to the needs
of private industry. Firms which lack the size required to set up substan-
tial in-house technology development facilities, are thus not well
supported by this infrastructure.  This reflects successive Governments'
attempts to promote industrial innovation by strengthening research in
universities and specialized public centers. Basic research, although
important in achieving quality higher education thus indirectly benefiting
ITD, is not a major source of technological change in Mexico's current
stage of industrial development. Furthermore, Government's large emphasis
on the supply of technology without commensurate attention to the factors
that influence the firms' demand, has resulted in continuous difficulties
in linking the centers and private industry. Industrial R&D centers
established by CONACYT (the Government's science and technology council),
for example, are generally run with little industry participation, often
undertake projects for which industrial demand is unclear, on average
require over 702 of their operating expenses to be met from Government
funds, and reportedly are insufficiently equipped and staffed (partly the
result of noncompetitive salaries).
2.14      Furthermore metrology, industrial standards, and quality
assurance are inadequate to sustain effective industrial development,
particularly of exports.3/ This is becoming more crucial as domestic
producers face the increased competition resulting from trade liberaliza-
tion and greater export orientation. Large multinational subsidiaries and
firms with international connections have adopted the quality culture of
their foreign partners, but industry largely lacks an appreciation of the
role of quality assurance in industrial design, production and cost
3/ "Metrology- refers to making measurements at selected levels of
accuracy. It requires measurement equipment, reference materials,
etc., in the industrial firms and in specialized laboratories, whose
quality and accuracy must be traceable to internationally accepted
references. 'Standards- refers to characteristics of industrial goods
which prQvide voluntary or mandatory benchmarks for judging the
acceptability of products. -Quality assurance' refers to a focus on
quality and meeting specifications within specified tolerance levels at
all stages, from design to final production. Quality control- refers
to the verification, generally through sampling, that products meet
predetermined standards.



- 10 -
control. The infrastructure of industrial metrology services is highly
fragmented and incomplete, and lacks traceability to recognized interna-
tional standards. SECOFI's (the Ministry of Trade and Industri-.l
Development) Direccion General de Normas (DGN), whtch is responsible for
establishing and monitoring standards in trade and industry, and for
developing a unified metrology service, lacks the human and financial
resources required.
2.15      Countrywide availability of specialized personnel does not appear
to constrain ITD at present. Howevr-r, there are only about 6,000 scien-
tists and engineers occupied in R&D or about 0.8 per 10,000 inhabitants
which is low compared with other countries. Furthermore, Mexico's total
pool of only about 13 scientists and engineers per 10,000 inhabitants is
also small. This will in the longer term pose major problems, as the
demand for engineers ar.d scientists increases. Table 2 gives further
details. The proposed manpower training and development project (Education
V-FY87) will focus on this problem.
Table 2: R&D MANPOWER, 1982
Scientists and engineers
per 10,000 inhabitants
Total             In R&D
Brazil                             n.a                2.6
Korea (Republic of)                 24                7.2
USA                                139               30.3
Japan                              595               41.5
Mexico                              13                0.8
Sources:  Mexico:   Programa Nacional de Deserrollo
Tecnologico y Cientifico 1984-88,- Pcder Ejecutivo
Federal, 1984. Other countries: UNESCO Statistical
Yearbook, 1984. Figures for Mexico are of 1983.
F. Financing Constraint
2.16      Besides overall credit constraints in Mexico, normal industrial
financing schemes are not well 3uited for ITD projects. Specialized
financing for ITD projects is available from some of the trust funds
established by Government to promote development by allocating credit to
priority activities. The main source is FONEI (Fondo de Equipamiento
Industrial), a trust fund established in 1971 and administrated by Banco de
Mexico (the central bank) to provide long term financing for industrial
projects by rediscounting commercial loans. In 1978 FONEI added a line of
ITD loan rediscounting and guarantees. FOMIN (Fondo Nacional de Fomento
Industrial, a trust fund established in 1972 and administrated by NAFINSA



- 11 -
(the industrial development bank), makes direct equity investments provid-
ing up to 49% of funds needed to start up or expand medium and small
industrial firms, including some technologically innovative ventures.
FONEP (Fondo Nacional de Estudio y Proyectos, another NAFINSA trust fund)
finances engineering and other studies for industrial development,
including some R&D projects. Besides the trust funds, CONACYT's "shared
risk program" (established in 1980 and financed by the Government's budget)
provides grants and conditional loans to industrial firms for ITD projects
in line with Government's subsectoral and regional priorities, mainly
utilizing the services of public sector R&D services and local engineering
firms. A component of an Inter-American Development Bank's science and
technology loan supported this program.
2.17      Despite these important efforts, ITD financing in Mexico is still
i- its infancy. Total commitment of funds to industrial firms for ITD by
specialized agencies in 1984 was only about $13 million (about 20% of total
private industry R&D expenditures, paras 2.08-2.09), of which FONEI
provided 78%. In general, existing schemes avoid risk and lack the neces-
sary close integration of financial and technical assistance. The
financial instruments do not match well industry's requirements, and are
fragmented among various independent agencies. There are no formal private
sources of venture capital (although commercial banks have voluntarily
taken equity positions in many of their clients). Existing regulations do
not encourage private financing of more risky ITD investments; recent
measures to develop the capital market are expected to produce results only
in the medium term. Private industry has been less responsive than
expected to CONACYT's risk sharing scheme, reportedly due in part to slow
processing, unresponsiveness to cost inflation, and issues of confidential-
ity and industrial property rights; two-thirds of the program's financing
in 1984 was for parastatal firms. FOMIN earmarked funds ($0.5 million) for
technologically innovative ventures for the first time in 1985; it
estimates that in the past only about 8% of total investments had signifi-
cant ITD components.  Tlkewise, about 5% of FONEP's funds supported ITD.
Table 3 below summarizes estimated 1984 funding for ITD projects by these
various agencies. Annex 3 gives further information.



- 12 -
Table 3: ITD FINANCING, 1984
Approximate 1984
Commitments
US$ million   Z
FONEI                 9.8       78
FOMIN                 1.2       10
FONEP                 0.3        2
CONACYT               1.3       10
TOTAL             12.6      100
FONEI figures are new commitments
(loans and grants). All others are
disbursements.
G. Scope for Improving ITD
2.18      As part of the IMF-supported stabilization program launched in
late 1982, a more realistic exchange rate policy began to make Mexican
products more competitive abroad, increase competition domestically, induce
substitution of imported raw materials and raise the price of foreign
technology. As a result, private investment in ITD has increased,4/ and
specialized ITD financing has grown by about 20X per annum even though
industrial enterprises have been faced with unusual financial difficulties
in the same period (Annex 3). The 1985 trade liberalization measures, and
export promotion efforts, are likely to further accelerate demand for ITD.
This is conservatively forecast to result in about 40% per annum growth in
demand for specialized financing for private industry technology invest-
ments in 1986-88.
H. Government ITD Plans for 1984-88
2.19      The Government's national programs for 1984-88 contain specific
directives to support ITD. The national program for industrial development
4/ For example, CONACYT estimates that the metalmechanic, electronics and
chemical industries increased in 1984 their investment in ITD on
average to 3.6% of sales, which is comparable to mature industrial
economies. Most of this growth was among private firms.



- 13 -
and foreign trade,5/ for example, emphasizes the need to strengthen the
relationships between technology development centers and industry. Govern-
ment will direct public sector purchases to technologically innovative
industrial firms, and establish domestic supplier development programs with
participation of industry associations. Government financing will be made
available to industrial firms through FONEI (complemented by FOMIN and
FONEP) and CONACYT for ITD projects directed at exports, Import substitu-
tion, and basic goods production. Accelerated depreciation and fiscal
incentives to industrial firms will support ITD in priority areas and
subsectors, technological modernization of productive plant, and investment
in multifirm technology service centers and in trust funds that finance ITD
projects. Government funding of R&D througn CONACYT will be revised to
better address industrial needs. SECOFI will strengthen direct technical
assistance to technology importers, and promote assimilation of foreign
technology including that acquired through foreign investment in Mexican
industry. The Government's science and technology national program6/ is
overall consistent with the above. Additionally, it includes specific
actions to strengthen technology information services (mainly through
INFOTEC), improve and disseminate information on Mexican R&D facilities and
manpower, strengthen graduate education, and develop the national metrology
center.
2.20      These programs express the Government's ITD philosophy and broad
investment priorities. They are expected to guide public sector agencies
in the decisions regarding budgetary allocations, import licensing,
channeling of funds, tax credits, grants, etc. The national programs are
not, however, operational plans. Specific ITD support actions are decided,
budgeted and implemented by the various agencies largely independently from
one another. A considerable number of such initiatives are underway._/
,-ore than half way into the present Government's term in office, however,
some major ITD activities signaled by the national programs are not being
implemented (e.g., national metrology center). Recent reductions in public
sector outlays-which are expected to continue into 1986-have had an
understandable impact in this respect, but should not be allowed to stifle
efforts to improve support for technology development.
5/ 'Programa Nacional de Fomento Industrial y Comercio Exterior,
1984-1988-, August 1984. The main section on technology policy is in
pp. 150-156.
6/   Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Tecnologico y Cientifico, 1984-1988."
7/ A few involve joint actions between two or more agencies for specific
purposes, e.g., SECOFI's promotion of identification of industrial
business opportunities and related technological innovation needs, with
CONACYT financing.



- 14 -
I. The Bank's ITD Lending Strategy in Mexico
2.21      Bank support for industry in Mexico rests on macroeconomic and
sector work, which have made possible the processing of several lending
operations designed to address issues of trade liberalization, export
promotion and industrial restructuring. Several operations include some
support for technology development (Annex 4). Successful performance by
Mexican industry in these three areas will depend on technological
development, which is a prerequisite to increasing competitiveness abroad,
substituting increasingly costly imported raw materials and technology, and
improving industrial processes and products. To achieve the required level
of domestic technology development, the Government must make progress in
ITD policy and support institutions, and it must assure that specialized
financing is available on suitable terms. Therefore, a Bank technology
development project is appropriate at this time. This operation will focus
on the development of technological capabilities of private industry, to
help reduce excessive concentration of ITD resources and responsibilities
in the public sector, and supplement Government's long standing technology
supply approach which by itself has failed to benefit industry at large.
2.22      The Bank's experience in helping establish and finance special-
ized ITD agencies in Spain and Korea, and related sector work in several
countries, are directly relevant to some of Mexico's prob'ems. These
experiences give the Bank some insight on the policy and operational
problems of specialized ITD financing agencies, including the need to
attain a critical mass of expertise and effective autonomy from Government
administration. They also highlight the need for an integrated approach to
ITD, with adequate attention to the macroeconomic country conditions,
specific Government policies and constraints which have a direct bearing on
ITD, and R&D and quality control support services. These lessons were
applied in the design of this project.
2.23      However, the task of strengthening ITD capability is complex.
The relationships between technology and industrial development are not
sufficiently well understood. In Mexico's relatively large economy,
numerous public and private agencies have a legitimate role in this
process. Responsibility for ITD policy formulation and implementation is
spread over several Government agencies with somewhat overlapping func-
tions.  The Bank has deliberarely concentrated initially on a few key
issues and agencies (selected in terms of agency receptivity, overall
impact, synergism among components, and likelihood of rapid progress) in
order to focus action which is at present highly diffused, and which defies
effective coordination and leadership. Although setting up a new financing
agency could be advantageous in pursuing long term institutional objec-
tives, the Bank chose to work with existing agencies to avoid further
proliferation and the risk of major start-up delays; experience during the
project will help clarify whether a new agency may need to be established
or spun off in the future.



- 15 -
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT AND BANK LOAN
A. Project Objectives and Composition
3.01      The proposed first ITD project and loan to Mexico are designed to
help improve the capability of industry (especially private firms) to
undertake technological innovation needed to face increasing competition in
the context of the Government's economic liberalization program. The
project has three objectives: (a) improving ITD policy instruments through
policy analysis, (b) selective strengthening of infrastructure, and (c)
expansion and strengthening of specialized technology financing.
3.02      PolicSy Analysis.  A major objective of the project is to help
focus the Government's attention on policies and related instruments
designed to encourage ITD industry-wide. This is expected to become an
integral part of the ongoing industrial policy dialogue between the Govern-
ment and the Bank, and to help improve explicit policy instruments.
Towards this objective, SECOFI, through its General Directorate of
Industrial Policy (DGPI), will carry out or supervise studies on the
factors that influence technological innovation in industrial enterprises,
including fiscal incentives, specialized financing and technology
assimilation strategies. The studies will assess the impact of explicit
technology policies on industry, examine interdependences among them and
with broader policy areas (e.g., general industrial policy, taxation),
compare relevant experience in other countries, examine the effects of
alternative mid-term macroeconomic scenarios on ITD strategy and on the
demand for specialized ITD financing, and draw lessons and make specific
recomendations for improving Government measures supporting technology
development at the enterprise level. The studies, expected to cost about
$0.8 million, would be financed entirely by SECOFI.
3.03      Selective Strengthening of Infrastructure.  The Project seeks to
increase the responsiveness of public sector infrastructure to private
industry's need for support services, through: (a) restructuring of R&D
centers and (b) improvement of metrology services.
3.04      The National Science and Technology Council (CONACYT) has, with
the Bank's concurrence, selected four from among eight public sector R&D
centers in the pharmaceutical, agroindustry and biotechnology, metal
mechanics, and chemical sectors. The four centers currently employ some
145 professionals and provide service to 210 industrial enterprises,
including some large parastatal companies. CONACYT has comvissioned
feasibility studies for the corporate reorganization and fiuancial
restructuring of each center (or, if necessary, to establish new centers)
with priv4te sector participation. Based on these studies, specific
investment plans would be prepared to enable the centers to meet the needs
of their potential clients, which include product development, equipment
and pilot plant design, technical assistance, quality control, metrology,
technology information, and liaison with specialized agencies. These
services are expected to be especially valuable to medium-sized enterprises



- 16 -
which do not bave in-house ROD capability and, indirectly, to large firms
which depend on suppliers and subcontractors whose quality control and
technology problem-solving capability would benefit from the proposed
project.
3.05     The proposed project would finance loans to private industrial
enterprises, for their equity participation in the selected centers, thus
injecting funds required for the execution of specific investment plans.
Such R&D lnvestment loans would be made by FONEI and finance up to 100l of
an enterprise's holding in any center. The amount of equity would be
determined on the basis of the investment plans, which would specify the
restructuring of the center's ownership, the equipment, works and services
needed to start up the centers' new activities, and the institutional
arrangements ensuring major (possibly dominant) participation of the
private investors as well as of Government, CONACYT, and other entities as
appropriate. For the four centers, the cost is estimated at about $16.8
million (including contingencies) of which the Bank would finance $8.2
million, including up to $0.2 million of retroactive financing to September
1, 1985 for the cost of consultants used to prepare studies and promote the
proposed restructuring operations.
3.06     SECOFI's General Directorate of Standards (DGN) would, with the
assistance of a metrology institution and consultants, assess the adequacy
of existing industrial metrology infrastructure, as well as the quality of
available services. This study, to be partly financed with loan funds (up
to $0.4 million), would recomned cost effective solutions to problems
arising from inadequate service and incomplete infrastructure. Specific
metrology programs and institutions which require strengthening would also
be identified, and, subject to the findings of the study, the proposed loan
would provide up to $1.6 million for the execution of such programs,
expected to cost about $3.1 million.
3.07     Expansion and Strof Specialized Technology Financing
A primary objective of the project is strengthening of FONEI's financing
for ITT) projects of private industry and development of R&D capability in
industry, research centers and engineering firms (Annex 5). A line of
credit of $37.1 million would be provided to FONEI to help expand its ITD
progran. With this support, and related improvements in FONEI's policies
and procedures, it is estimated that FONEI ITD commitments will grow an
average 46% per annum in dollar terms between 1986 and 1988. Strong demand
is expected for loans for full-scale production using locally developed
technology, which will have larger than average size for ITD loans.
Retroactive financing to September 1, 1985 of $4.6 million would be
provided to support FONEI's efforts to achieve major expansion following
this project's appraisal by the Bank.
3.08     FONEI's ITD program would be further strengthened through a
technical assistance program which will (a) provide local and overseas
training for FONEI staff and commercial banks' -industrial assistants,-
particularly for personnel to be hired in 1986 and 1987, and (b) support
FONEI's promotion efforts and provide assistance in project evaluation by



- 17 -
financing short-term consultants as needed. Some $0.7 million of the loan
will be allocated for this component.
Project Execution
3.09      Loan funds for the proposed project are planned to be fully
committed by June 30, 1989 and disbursed by June 30, 1992. SECOFI would
carry out the policy and metrology strategies, CONACYT and the Government
would carry out the restructuring of R&D centers; FONEI would provide loans
to finance investments in these centers, and for initial improvement of
metrology services. FONEI would be responsible for the specialized
technology financing component and its own institutional strengthening.
3.10      The technology policy studies would be carried out by SECOFI with
its own staff and consultants, guided by an advisory committee to be
appointed by DGPI with representation of industry, academia and other
Government agencies. Draft terms of reference for these studies were
prepared with the Bank during project appraisal. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that SECOFI would submit final terms of reference for
the Bank's review; complete the studies not later than September 30, 1987;
and furnish them to the Bank, and exchange views with it on the studies'
conclusions and recommendations.
3.11      To facilitate restructuring of the R&D centers, feasibility
studies have been completed and investment plans are being prepared by
CONACYT and the centers with consultants, under terms of reference and
timetable agreed with the Bank (Project File and Annex 6 respectively).
The Bank loan will finance through FONEI s R&D investment loans 1OOZ of
eligible expenditures (mainly for equipment and training). As conditions
of disbursement for this component the Bank would need to (a) approve
guidelines agreed between CONACYT and FONEI for evaluating, awarding and
supervising such loans to industrial firms, (b) approve each center's
investment plan and (c) receive satisfactory evidence of enough advance
commitments from iudustrial firms to ensure adequate funding of each
restructuring operation. Public sector support will be provided by
Government through CONACYT's own funds (preparation), loans to industry
from CONACYT's shared risk program (specific R&D projects) and the centers'
Government budget allocations (incremental start-up operating costs).
3.12      Definition of metrology investments to be financed under the
proposed loan would depend on the results of studies referred to in
paragraph 3.06. SECOFI will carry out these studies with own staff and
local consultants. Final retention by SECOFI of a metrology institution to
help carry out these studies with qualifications and under .erms of
reference to be agreed with the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement
for the metrology studies as well as for any subsequent investments.
During negotiations, agreement was also reached that SECOFI would complete
the metrology studies not later than September 30, 1987, furnish such
studies to the Bank, and exchange views with it on the studies' conclusions
and recommendations. Assistance from a metrology institution is being
negotiated by SECOFI as bilateral technical assistance on a grant basis.



- 18 -
The proposed loan would help ueet SECOFI's estimated incremental costs
resulting from the studies. Subject to Bank prior approval of investment
and financing plans and timetables, a condition of disbursement for
metrology investments agreed at negotiations, loan funds will also support
urgent initial improvements identified by the DGN study.
3.13      Regarding specialized technology financing, FONEI's management is
committed to expansion and strengthening of its technology program and is
willing to implement necessary changes in operational policies and
procedures. During loan processing, the following aspects of FONEI's
policies and procedures were identified as areas to be improved to allow
the ITD program to grow and better meet the needs of its target clients:
(i) expansion of financial instruments; (ii) improvement in project
evaluation and supervision procedures; and (iii) articulation of a clear
policy and strategy for the technology program.
3.14      Until recently, all ITD financing by FONEI was through a mix of
conventional loans and grants. To better support firms undertaking higb
risk technology projects, FONEI has added a conditional loan instrument.
This will be used primarily for financing investments required for full
scale production using locally-developed technology, which has higher
market risk than similar projects financed under the traditional equipment
lending program. With conditional loans, FONEI and the investors share the
investment risk. Loan repayment schedules are based on the expected
revenues to be generated by the project. If revenues are less than
expected, FONEI may in consideration of the enterprises' inadequate overall
financial position, reduce amortization of principal to a percentage of net
revenues generated by the project and reschedule or remit any outstanding
balance when the subloan matures. To compensate for higher risk, interest
rate on conditional loans include a risk premium. The criteria for
determining the risk premium were reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. It was agreed at negotiations that introduction in GIRA of a
new interest rate category for conditional loans is a condition of loan
effectiveness. Additionally, FONEI will initiate a pilot program to
provide equity loans for ITD lending. These are loans to commercial banks
for them to take equity positions in firms as a means to finance lTD.
Operating guidelines for ITD equity loans will be similar to equity loans
for other FONEI lending with the financial intermediary bearing the
investment risk. For ITD equity loans as for other ITD lending, FONEI will
discount 1007 of the commercial banks' participation. Project appraisal
will be carried out in accordance with procedures in FONEI's ITD operations
manual (para 3.15). The type of financing provided (conventional loan,
conditional loan or equity) will be determined by project and firm
characteristics identified during project appraisal.
3.15       FONEI has gradually refined its project evaluation and
supervision procedures to reflect the special characteristics of technology
lending. Some deficiencies were identified during project appraisal. For
example, existing project evaluation procedures lacked detailed project
risk and market analysis; understaffing of the Technology Development Unit
(TDU) resulted in poor project documentation, particularly when several



- 19 -
projects are processed under the same credit; and supervision is minimal
and primarily administrative, lacking a focus on identifying potential
problems. These deficiencies have been addressed in FONEI's revised
operating manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which is now in use.
3.16      To provide focus and direction for the ITD program, it was felt
FONEI needed to articulate clearly its policy and strategy, identifying the
program's objective, FONEI's grant and interest rate policy, lernding and
staffing targets, promotional strategy including target growth in industri-
al assistants, and other features discussed during loan processing. The
ITD policy and strategy statement would also reflect FONEI's intention to
review interest rates over the project execution period, adjusting towards
market rates as the program became more established and to offer potential
clients of conventional ITD loans, by January 1, 1987, the option of a
non-subsidized loan with a larger direct grant to offset the interest rate
difference. FONEI has prepared a policy and strategy statement,
satisfactory to the Bank, concerning the items indicated.
3.17      During preparation of the proposed loan, it was agreed with
FONEI's management and Banco de Mexico, that major expansion of TDU and
Supervision Department staff was essential to allow increased growth in ITD
lending, and improved project evaluation and supervision. This entailed
expansion from an equivalent of 5 positions in 1985 to 12 in 1986 (8 in the
TDU and 4 in Supervision), and about 18 in 1987. By loan negotiations,
Government had approved a total of 17 new staff positions for FONEI, 7 in
the ITD and supervision units and 10 in support units. It was agreed that
staff requirements for 1987 would be reviewed in late 1986, based on
updated lending targets.
3.18      To provide borrowers with ITD resources on favorable terms, FONEI
has cross-subsidized technology operations by allocating part of its
earnings to grants to enterprises and by accepting a lower return on the
ITD program due to the lower interest rate (currently ACF-5Z as opposed to
equipment lending at ACF %). Subsidized lending is justified (para 2.04)
and the Bank has supported other subsidized technology lending programs,
e.g., in Korea and Spain. However, adequate provisions must be made to
ensure the finwncial health of the institution. The Government has decided
to further strengthen FONEI by repaying both principal and interest for the
industrial recovery and the technology development loans. With these
measures, FONEI would be able to adequately finance its lending program
(including grants to enterprises under the ITD program) during the project
period. During loan negotiations, it was agreed that in the event
financing was found to be inadequate or provision of subsidies to support
the expected level of ITD lending would materially affect FONEI, the
Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to provide
FONEI with additional resources. To ensure transparency, it was agreed
that separate financial statements will be prepared for the ITD program
which will reflect the extent of grant and interest rate subsidy.



- 20 -
B. Project Cost and Financing
3.19      Estimated project costs are summarized in Table 4 below. Base
costs are as of April 1986. No allowance is added for physical or price
contingencies for FONEI's line of credit. For all other components, 10% of
base cost is added for physical contingencies and 7.5% per annum for price
changes. The financing plan is in Table 5, with contingencies allocated
approximately proportional to base costs (except line of credit).
Table 4: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign      Local
Currency    Currency      Total
-________- USS million
Policy Analysis                            0.1          0.7           0.8
R&D centers
Studies and promotion                   -           0.2           0.2
Investments                            5.5          8.2          13.7
Metrology services
Studies                                0.1          0.2           0.3
Initial metrology improvement          1.3          1.3           2.6
Line of credit                            19.4         55.6          75.0
Technical assistance to FONEI              0.5          0.1           0.6
BASE COST (including contingencies)   26.9         66.3          93.2
-                           -
Contingencies
Pbysical                                 0.7           1.0          1.7
Price                                    0.8          1.1           1.9
Subtotal contingencies                 1.5          2.1          3.6
TOTAL COST                            28.4         68.4          96.8



- 21 -
Table 5: PROJECT FINANCING
Govern-
IBRD   ment     FONEI   Firms   Total
-  --   US$ million
Policy Analysis                             -       0.8       -       -       0.8
R&D centers
Studies and promotion                  0.2       -        -       -       0.2
Investments                            8.0      8.6       -       -      16.6
Quality assurance
DGN study                              0.4       -        -       -       0.4
Initial metrology improve-
ment                                  1.6      1.5       -       -       3.1
Line of credit                            37.1      6.0    16.9    15.0    75.0
Technical assistance                       0.7       --               -       0.7
TOTAL (including contingencies)           48.0     16.9    16.9    15.0    96.8
C. Loan Amount. Terms and Conditions
Relending Terms
3.20      The proposed loan of $48.0 million would be made to NAFINSA with
the guarantee of the Government, for 15 years including 3 years' grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate. NAFINSA would channel the
resources to: (a) SECOFI for the metrology studies; and (b) FONEI for the
specialized technology financing program and techni^al amsistance, for
eigible industrial enterprises for R&D investments in four restructured
(or new) R&D centers, and for eligible entities for metrology investments.
The Government would repay the full principal of the loan, pay interest and
other charges, and bear the related foreign exchange risk. Execution of
contractual arrangements between the Government and NAFINSA and FONEI, on
terms satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness.
Terms and Conditions of FONEI's R&D Investment Loans
3.21      To attract firms to this new concept FONEI would initially lend
up to 100Z of the funds needed by eligible industrial enterprises to invest
in restructured R&D centers, at an interest rate of not less than the
average cost of funds to the banking system (ACF). After about one year
FONEI's maximsu participation would be reviewed with a view to bringing it
in line with the terms of POKEl's specialized ITD financing. It was also
agreed at negotiations that GIRA would be modified accordingly as a
condition of loan effectiveness. Maturities of R&D investment loans would
be up to ten years, including up to five years' grace.



- 22 -
Terms and Conditions of FONEI's Specialized ITD Financing
3.22      Under its ITD program, FONEI lends primarily to private sector
industrial firms, research centers and engineering firms to finance all
elements necessary to support ITD projects, including purchase of basic
information, process engineering, raw materials and supplies, operational
and training expenses for staff involved in the project, R&D equipment and
operating expenses, and full scale production using locally developed
technology. Its project review and approval process benefits from the
input of a technical committee with representation of industry, academia
and other outside agencies. All ITD lending is through commercial banks
who assist with promotion of FONEI loans through an Induistrial Assistance
Program.
3.23      To provide investors with financing on terms appropriate for ITD,
FONEI provides a mix of loan and grant funds. FONEI discounts eligible
subloans made by commercial banks, and provides grants to the enterprises.
FONEI finances up to 80% of total investment costs and the firm the
remaining 20%. FONEI's grant component is up to 30% (average IOZ),
depending on project characteristics, such as its innovative merit and the
level of risk. The criteria FONEI applies to determine the grant amount
have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. The maximum
outstanding technology subloans to any one borrower from the proceeds of
the Bank loan would not exceed $4 million equivalent. Conventional and
conditional ITD loans would have maturities of up to 13 years including a
maximum krace period of 3 years. Equity subloans would have maturities of
up to 10 years including a maximum grace period of 5 years.
3.24      FONEI would tharge the commercial banks interest rates equivalent
to 88% of the ACF on conventional technology loans, ACF plus one percentage
point on equity loans, and, on conditional loans, 104% of the ACF, plus a
risk premium which would vary among loans. The commercial banks would
retain a spread of 6% of ACF which is sufficient to attract commercial
banks to technology financing, as FONEI would, in addition, discount 100%
of technology subloans and guarantee up to 90% of conventional and
conditional ITD subloans. Under the proposed project, financial
intermediaries would charge to ultimate beneficiaries variable interest
rates equivalent to 94% of the ACF for conventional technology subloans,
and 110% of ACF for conditional subloans plus a risk premium. Currently,
GIRA sets only the interest rate on conventional subsidized loans-in
accordance with previous arrangements-at a minimum level equivalent to the
ACF less three percentage points. It was agreed during negotiations that
GIRA would be amended to reflect the above new nominal interest rates for
technology financing; this amendment is a condition of loan effectiveness.
3.25      To mitigate the impact of high nominal interest rates, FONEI
offers, as an alternative to conventional repayment terms, the PVP payment
scheme. This, unlike the conventional repayment schedule, has no grace
period, but interest is payable only on the principal being repaid in a
given year. Under the PVP scheme, debt service is more closely linked to
subproject cash generation, thus alleviating the adverse cash flow effect
of early service payments.



- 23 -
3.26      Conventional ITD subloans and equity loans in excess of $0.5
million and conditional loans in excess of $0.8 million will require Bank
approval prior to disbursement, based on full project documentation in a
standard form acceptable to the Bank. On this basis, the Bank would review
an estimated 20% of total subprojects representing about 80Z of total
subloan value. Review will be done with the assistance of Bank subsector
specialists. Subloans below the established free limits will require only
abbreviated documentation for Bank approval, and this may take place after
disbursement. Full documentation for all loans will bto available at FONEI
for Bank review during supervision and for audit. The first five
technology and equity subloans will be submitted for Bank prior approval
regardless of size.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.27      Procurement procedures for goods and services financed with loan
funds would comply with those custamary for industrial development finance
operations. Under the project's technology infrastructure and metrology
components, limited international bidding procedures would be applied to
goods costing in excess of US$500,000 equivalent, while below that level,
and for civil works, local or international shopping procedures with a
minimum of three quotations would be required; both types of procedures
would be satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would have prior review of
contracts for goods and services estimated to cost in excess of US$150,000
equivalent under the agreed investment plan of any research and development
center or metrology program. All consultants to be financed with loan
funds would have qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Bank.
3.28      In line with country policy, the loan will meet about 50% of
total project cost. The Bank would disburse against 70% of FONEI
technology subloans; 65% of FONEI's technology equity loans; 100% of
expenditures (a) financed under FONEI's R&D investment loans and (b) for
consultancy services; and 50% of expenditures for goods, civil works and
services required for the metrology component. To facilitate
disbursements, a special account (revolving fund) of up to $4.0 million
will be set up and administered by NAFINSA. Disbursements from this fund
will be made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). The loan
is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1992 (para 3.09).
E. Accounts and Audit
3.29      The accounts of NAFINSA and FONEI (including those kept for the
purposes of the project), the Special Account, and statements of expendi-
tures, would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audit reports, including an opinion in respect of the supporting
documentation for disbursements based on SOEs, would be submitted to the
Bank annually within six months after the end of NAFINSA's and FONEI's
fiscal year. In addition, FONEI would prepare separate accounts for its
technology development program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. These
will be submitted to the Bank and relevant Government agencies annually.



- 24 -
Payments for SECOFI's and CONACYT's project components, would be made
directly by NAFINSA, and the relevant accounts and SOEs would be audited by
NAFINSA's independent auditors.
F. Supervision and Monitoring
3.30      Since this is the first Bank ITD project in Mexico, close super-
vision is planned with frequent small missions. In particular, supervision
missions (with subsector specialists if needed) will review a large propor-
tion of FONEI's subloans above the free limit and samples of smaller opera-
tions, to assess implementation of FONEI's revised subproject evaluation
and supervision procedures and the application of FONEIts lending and grant
award criteria, and the quality of FONEI's technical analysis. Any further
desirable adjustments of policy or procedures can then be identified during
project execution. At negotiations, it was agreed that a system for
retrospective review of ITD subproject impact, satisfactory to the Bank,
will be established Dy FONEI by June 30, 1987.
G. ProJect Benefits and Justification
3.31      The project will help to accelerate industrial technological
change, thereby helping private firms compete in domestic and export
markets. During the project, increased availability of funds on terms
suited to lTD projects, selective use of Government subsidy, and improved
assistance in identification and formulation of ITD projects, are expected
to result in more, larger or earlier technological improvements in partici-
pating firms.
3.32      Project benefits will continue to accrue after project comple-
tion. Firms will benefit from major expansion of specialized IT.D financing
and improvement in financing instruments which will assist with all stages
of ITD. A strengthened FONEI ITD unit will provide Government with a core
of specialized expertise and policy advice on ITD financing and promotion.
Pilot restructuring of R&D centers, besides achieving economies of scale in
R&D that participating firms cannot individually attain, will provide an
experience without precedent in Mexico (nor much elsewhere) that would help
guide future broader efforts to develop public sector R&D infrastructures
responsive to private industry needs. Likewise, the project will help
establish an analytic base on which Government can update and revitalize
its policy and investment decisions regarding industrial metrology infra-
structure, as needed to facilitate industrywide pursuit of quality. In
this context, modest but significant initial steps will have been taken in
at least one or two industrial subsectors to overcome critical obstacles to
the achievement of quality traceable to internationally recognized refer-
ences. Finally, analysis of explicit Government ITD policies and their
relationships to broader policies which implicitly influence ITD, will
provide guidance for their improvement.
3.33      These benefits cannot be readily quantified.  Information
available by the end of the project will allow a review of the specific



- 25 -
practical results obtained and an assessment of the participating agencies'
performance, on the basis of which the project's overall merits can be
re-examined and lessons drawn for future operations. Also, a system for
more detailed retrospective review of ITD subprojects will be established
(para 3.30), which would allow a better assessment of the impact of future
operations on industrial development.
H. Project Uncertainties and Risks
3.34      There are significant uncertainties associated with the project.
First, expansion of FONEI technology staff to provide a minimum core of
specialized staff, essential for project success, has been approved by
Government and screening of candidates is underway. However, recruitment,
training and consolidation of staff remains to be achieved. Second, under
a recent reorganization of SECOFI, DGPI has been assigned a substantial
number of staff and set up a studies group, but their experience in policy
analyses of the nature and level envisaged in this project is limited.
This would be overcome by appointment of an advisory committee, by
retaining other agencies (e.g., UNAM) to assist with selected tasks, and by
drawing on Bank expertise especially during supervision. Third, whereas
CONACYT's Director in consultation with SPP decided to go ahead with the
restructuring of centers with major participation of private industry, this
is controversial and opposed by some senior CONACYT staff. Also, despite
good initial responses from industry, it is uncertain whether eventually a
sufficiently large number of firms will commit themselves as needed to go
ahead with the restructuring operations. Lastly, the impact of the 1985
earthquake and 1986 oil price decline (subsequent to appraisal) on relevant
Government economic measures is unknown at this time and it is uncertain
how quickly Mexico will return to sustained economic growth and what impact
any delay in economic recovery will have on the demand for ITD finance.
Close Bank supervision will permit any necessary adjustments in project
design during project implementation.
3.35      Government has made a commitment to strengthen FONEI (para 3.18)
through repayment of principal and interest on new Bank loans which should
ensure that FONEI can adequately provide the subsidies required to support
expansion of the ITD program (both interest rate and direct grants) from
its net income, over the project period. Provisions for losses in FONEI's
financial projections of 2.5% of new ITD disbursements which is considered
adequate, protect FONEI's net income in the event it has to honor its
guarantees to financial intermediaries. The return on the conditional loan
portfolio is expected on average to be equivalent to that on conventional
loans, with high returns on most projects compensating for lower returns on
those less successful; an additional risk premium currently calculated to
range from 2-10% will compensate for an expected 30% failure rate on these
loans. Provisions for losses in FONEI's financial projections also take
into account this expected level of loss on conditional loans which will
represent less that 10% of FONEI's overall portfolio in the project
period. Even if the actual failure rate of conditional loans is as high as
50%, overall FONEI net income would be reduced by less than 3.12 and
FONEI's return on equity would still be positive in real terms (Annex 5,
Table lA).



- 26 -
3.36      As the program expands and financial intermediaries gain more
experience with technology lending it is hoped that their participation
will increase and the level of FONEI guarantees will decrease. Currently,
the financial exposure of the intermediaries is limited to 10% of the total
technology portfolio (since FONEI rediscounts 100% and guarantees 90% of
technology subloans) and can be considered negligible. The pilot equity
component of $5 million for which intermediaries will bear the investment
risk will represent a minute percentage of their overall portfolio.
I. Environmental Impact
3.37      FONEI's review of subprojects will include an assessment of their
environmental impact; it is hoped that some projects may have potential for
reducing air and water pollution and toxic w.ste.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained on the
following matters:
(a)  Goverument will assume the obligation to repay principal
and interest on the ITD loan. In the event FONEI's funds
are inadequate to support the ITD lending program or the
provision of subsidies would materially affect FONEI, the
Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank to provide FONEI with additional resources (para
3.18);
Cb)  The maximum outstanding to any single FONEI borrower out
of the proceeds of the Bank loan will be $4.0 million
(para 3.23);
(c)  FONEI technology subloans in excess of $0.5 million and
equity loans in excess Of $0.8 million will require full
documentation and Bank approval prior to disbursement
from the spec'ia account. Full documentation on all
subloans will be maintained by FONEI for Bank review and
external audit (pars 3.26);
(d)  Separate financial statements in a format agreed with the
Bank will be prepared for the ITD program. These will be
submitted to the Bank and relevant Government agencies on
an annual basis (paras 3.18 and 3.29).
(e)  SECOFI's policy and metrology studies will be completed
by September 30, 1987 and sent to the Bank, and SECOFI
will exchange views with it on their conclusions and
recommendations. The Bank will review and comment on the
terms of reference for the policy studies; the metrology



- 27 -
institution's qualifications and terms of reference will
be agreed with the Bank (paras 3.10 and 3.12);
(f) Audit reports for FONEI and NAFINSA, including audits of
the special account and statements of expenditures will
be presented to the Bank within six months of the end of
each calendar year. For expenditures under SECOFI's and
CONACYT's project components, SPP would carry out an
independent review of all documents including SOEs, and
approve them before submission to the Bank (para 3.29).
(g) By June 30, 1987 FONEI will have established a system of
retrospective subproject review acceptable to the Bank
(para 3.30);
4.02      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) Execution of contractual arrangements between the Govern-
ment, FONEI and NAFINSA on terms satisfactory to the Bank
(para 3.20);
(b) Introduction into GIRA of new interest rate categories
for (i) R&D investment loans equivalent to ACF,
(ii) subsidized conventional technology subloans of 94%
of ACF, (Mi) conditional loans of 110% of ACF plus a
variable risk premium and (iv) equity loans of ACF plus
1Z (paras 3.14, 3.21 and 3.24).
4.03      The following are conditions of loan disbursement for particular
project components:
(a) FONEI and CONACYT agreeing on operating guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank for evaluating, awarding and
supervising R&D investment loans to private industrial
enterprises (para 3.11)
(b) Bank approval of the plans for initial investments in
metrology and for restructuring CONACYT centers, and of
evidence of advance commitment of a sufficient number of
industrial enterprises to the centers' restructuring of
CONACYT centers (paras 3.11 and 3.12);
(c) Final agreement with a qualified metrology institution
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and Bank
approval of metrology investment plans (para 3.12);
(d) Bank approval of the first five FONEI technology subloans
and equity loans, irrespective of size (para 3.26).



- 28 -
4.04      Retroactive financing from September 1, 1986 is recommended (a)
up to $4.6 million for FONEI subloan disbursements and (b) up to $0.2
million for CONACYT s costs of consultants (paras 3.07 and 3.10).
4.05      Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of $48.0 million for a term of 15 years including
three years' grace.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ITD Policy Responsibility
1.        Responsibility for ITD in Mexico is spread among various partly
interdependent Government agencies, as well as in parastatal and private
industry. The main ones are outlined below.
2.        Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial (SECOFI, the trade
and industry ministry) has primary responsibility for promoting the
development of private industry, including technology innovation. SECOFI's
Subsecretaria de Fomento Industrial reviews Government policies and
instruments that influence ITD generally. With Secretaria de Hacienda y
Credito Publico (SHCP, the finance ministry), it is responsible for
improving the system of fiscal and financial incentives for ITD. It also
determines subsector priorities for Government support, and undertakes
specific programs to stimulate technological innovation in industry and
strengthen the links with Mexican sources of R&D and engineering. SECOFI's
Subscretaria de Regulacion de la Inversion Extranjera y Transferencia de
Tecnologia regulates the importation of industrial technology (associated
with foreign investment as well as through licenses and technical
assistance contracts). In addition to the control and recording function,
this includes assistance to firms in identifying foreign sources of
technology, help in negotiating terms of transfer, and promotion of action
programs by the firms to enhance assimilation of imported technclogy.
SECOFI's Subsecretaria de Planeacion Industrial integrates Government plans
for industry into the national plans for industrial development and foreign
trade.
3.        Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (SEMIP) is
the ministry that overviews parastatal industry. It provides directives
for ITD by subsectors, and guides the use of public sector purchases for
the development of domestic industry and technology.
4.        Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT) is the
Government's agency for science and technology policy. It promotes basic
and applied research mainly by formularing indicative research programs,
channeling federal funds to universities and other agencies for specific
science and technology projects and for graduate education, and setting up
and overviewing specialized and regional R&D facilities. CONACYT is the
obligated consultative organization for all public and parastatal agencies
in matters related to science and technology, the main advisory agency to
Government in this field, and the representative of Government in related
international affairs. CONACYT has a staff of about 1,000.
Industry Department
March 12, 1986



30
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECENOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ITD Infrastructure
1.        Most industrial R&D in Mexico takes place within industry.  Large
private conglomerates have set up specialized ITD firms (e.g., VITROTEC,
TECNOFIRSA, INDETELEC). Some other large private industrial firms, and
firms associated with multinational corporations, have in-house R&D
facilities. Large parastatals have established associated R&D institutes
te.g., Instituto Nacional del Petroleo, Instituto de Investigaciones
Electricas) which also provide some support to private supplier firms.
2.        There is also a considerable science and technology support
infrastructure. About 140 centers, mostly in the public sector, provide
specialized R&D services; about 20 of these are mainly involved in
industrial technology. CONACYT helped set up (and currently overviews)
eight such industrial R&D centers in provincial cities, with both a
regional support function and a degree of subsector specialization.
INFOTEC, established by CONACYT and currently a Government trust under
Nacional Financiera (NAFINSA, the state industrial development baink),
provides industrial technology information services to about 300 subscriber
firms and to industry in general. Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones
Tecnologicas (IMIT, a trust fund under Banco de Mexico, the central bank)
and Laboratorios Nacionales de Fomento Industrial (LANFI, a part of SECOFI)
are among the earliest public sector industrial R&D facilities set up in
the 1950s and continue to be active in food technology, mineral processing,
analytic chemistry and other fields. University R&D relevant to industry
takes place mainly at Instituto Tecnologico y de Estudios Superiores de
Monterrey (largely funded by local private industry), Universidad Nacional
Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM, the largest state university, including Instituto
de Ingenieria, a prestige civil engineering R&D center established in the
1950s and largely funded by private industry contracts, and also a recently
set up specialized unit that promotes and manages the sale of university
R&D to industry) and Instituto Politecnico Nacional. About 1,400
engineering firms (mostly private, some of them large and active in
international markets) provide industry with basic engineering, design,
technical assistance and other functions that link industry with foreign
and domestic sources of technology.
3.        Four of the CONACYT centers have been preselected for possible
restructuring with private industry participation and Bank financing:
Centro de Investigacion y Asistencia en Tecnologia y Diseno del Estado de
Jalisco (CIATEJ), Instituto Mexicano de Investigaciones en Manufacturas
Metalnecanicas (IMEC), Centro de Investigacion en Quimica Aplicada (CIQA)
and Centro Nexicano de Desarrollo e Investigacion Farmaceutica (CEMIFAR).
CIATEJ, IMEC and CEMIFAR are -asociaciones civiles,' and their statutes
allow private industry representation in their Boards of Directors. CIQA
is a decentralized public sector agency.



b                                      - 31-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
4.        CIATEJ, located in the city of Qiadalajara, was established in
1978.  In 1984 it had 41 professional staff (of which 9 with MSc or PhD
degrees) including core teams in fitochemistry and biotechnology. Its main
fields of activity are agroindustry (especially food) and chemical and
farmochemical industries. Total operating revenues in 1984 were about $0.7
million, of which 48% were fees for services rendered to about 130 client
firms (mostly private).
5.        IMEC, located in the city of San Luis Potosi, was established in
1976. In 1984, it had 23 professional staff, none with graduate studies.
Its main field of activity is in prototype development for the metal
mechanic industry. Restructuring would strengthen its capabilities in the
fields of electronic industrial controls, computer aided design, new
materials (carbon and glass fibers), and forge and heat processes. Total
operating revenues in 1984 were about $0.4 million, of which 21% were fees
for services rendered to 36 client firms.
6.        CIQA, located in the city of Saltillo, was established in 1976.
In 1984 it had a total professional staff of 73, of which 38 had HSc or
PhD degrees. Main areas of current capability are process and equipment
designs for the plastics and chemical industries. Restructuring would
largely strengthen activities in plastics, and possibly also chemical
processes in general and biotechnology applied to agroindustry. Total
revenues in 1984 were about $1.9 million, the largest among all CONACYT
centers. However, only 16% of revenues were for services rendered to
client firms (mostly PEMEX, the parastatal oil monopoly, and 5 other
firms).
7.        CEMIFAR, located in Mexico, DF, was established in 1976.  It is
unique among the CONACYT industrial centers in that it has no laboratories
of its own. Rather, it identifies needs and promotes business opportuni-
ties, and places R&D contracts with other R&D centers to provide the
pharmaceutical industrial firms with the ITD support needed. Strengthening
of CEMIFAR would result in equipment and trained personnel contributed to
such other centers, or in establishing a center of its own, and would
improve technical assistance, product development and technological innova-
tion support for a large number of pharmaceutical 'irms throughout the
country. In 1984, CEMIFAR had a total professional staff of 8 (including 4
with MSc and PhD degrees) and total revenues of about $0.1 million of which
liz were in fees paid by about 38 client firms.
Industry Department
March 12, 1986



32 -                      Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Specialized ITD Financing
The Need for Specialized Financing
1.        Availability of specialized financing for specific ITD projects
undertaken by industrial firms internally or contracted out to R&D centers,
engineering firms or other sources, is a key factor of ITD. ITD generally
goes through four phases: start-up (idea generation, feasibility studies
and technical R&D), precommercial (development of prototypes and pilot
plants, preliminary production and test marketing), expansion and maturi-
ty. In the start-up phase, an ongoing firm typically draws on internally
generated funds and on Government R&D grants and long-term loans when
available, whereas a new entrepreneur usually resorts to private funding
(investment of personal and friends' savings and borrowing). DI the
precomercial phase, the same sources are used, with less emphasis on
concessionary Government financing. The expansion and maturity phases are
normally financed by self-generated funds and by development and commercial
bank loans, and benefit from Government incentives such as preferential
interest rates and tax breaks when available.
2.        Institutional gaps in many developing economies inhibit financing
of lTD. Commercial and development banks primarily finance the expansion
and maturity phases, when the technology is proven and the market is
reasonably assured. The first two phases typically contain major risks
which are not acceptable to such financial institutions, partly b5ecause
they lack the financial instruments to compensate for the higher risk. In
addition, banks often lack technical and market expertise to evaluate the
risk properly, and they are not organized and managed so as to include
risky loans in their portfolios. Also, the projects' softwr.re intensity
and low resale value of specialized R&D equipment, result in lack of viable
collateral. In some highly industrialized countries, private formal
venture capital sources, seeking rapid appreciation of capital, invest in
uev firms in the precommercial phase (usually once initial prototypes and
pilot plants are available, but occasionally also earlier). Experience so
far suggests that private venture capital firms are difficult to establish
in less developed capital markets, and when they are, they often attach low
priority to investments in innovation (since many other attractive and less
risky equity opportunities are typically available in these environments).
3.        To help fill these gaps, specialized ITD financing agencies have
been set up in several countries, including CDTI in Spain and KTDC in
Korea, both financed by the Bank. Generally, three kinds of financial
instruments are used by such agencies: (a) conventional loans, with or
without collateral requirements, with or without a subsidy element; (b)
conditional loans, that allow profit and risk sharing between the firm and
the agency; such loans, which are most suitable for new product develop-
ment, can be repaid through royalty payments from sales revenues if the
project is successful, up to a certain return on the loans; if the project



33- -                     Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
does not result in additional sales revenues, the lender recovers only a
portion of the principal; and (c) equity investments, in companies set up
to commercialize R&D results. Table 1 summarizes the growth of the two
main sources of specialized ITD financing in Mexico from 1980.
Table 1: SPECIALIZED ITD FINANCING IN MEXICO
($ million)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1985
(est.)
FONEI                    0.2    8.1    7.7   12.5    9.8    16.0
CONACYT                  0.6    1.4    0.4    0.5    1.3       1.9
TOTAL                    0.8    9.5    8.1   13.0   11.1    17.9
Sources:  FONEI:  Financing statistics (loans and grants).  Others:
CONACYT, Departamento de Planes Estrategicos, August 1984. FONEI data are
for new commitments (loans and grarts); 1983 includes $8.8 million in two
large, one-time loans. CONACYT figures are for disbursements of the shared
risk program.
PVP Mechanism
4.        The PVP scheme avoids the adverse cash flow impact on borrowers
of conventional loans in highly inflationary environments by essentially
capitalizing interest in the earlier years. These loans have no grace
period, i.e., principal repayments are scheduled throughout the life of the
loan. Interest payable each period is the interest accrued on the
principal being repayed instead of interest on the total outstanding
balance as for conventional loans. Table 2 compares annual payment of PVP
and conventional loans.
Table 2: COMPARISON OF PVP LOAN AND CONVENTIONAL LOAN
OLI-t-   Prin-    Conventional Loan        PVP Loan
standing   cipal    Interest              Interest
Year   Balance   PaymelLt   Payment      Total   Payment   Total
1      100       10         50          60         5        15
2       90       10         45          55        13        23
3       80       10         40          50        24        34
4       70        10        35          45        41        51
5       60        10        30          40        66        76
6       50        10        25          35       104       114
7       40        10        20          30       161       171
8       30        10        15          25       246       256
9       20       10         10          20       374      384
10       10       10          5          15       567       577
Industry Department
March 12, 1986



- 34 -
ANNEX 4
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Current Bank Support for ITD
Reports were prepared (LCIMX) on Mexico industrial strategy
(1983), country economic developments (1984) and export promotion policy
(1984). A comparative study of the acquisition of technological capability
on Mexico, Brazil, Korea and India is near completion (DRDPR/INDSP).
Ongoing studies on international competitiveness and productivity in
selected industrial subsectors (INDSP) are due also in late 1985. The
fourth industrial equipment loan (1712-ME of 1979) for $175.0 million
includes up to $5 million for FONEI's technology development program. A
capital goods industries development loan (2142-ME of 1982) for $152.5
million, includes $2 million for technology development and strengthening
INFOTEC's information facilities. The third small and medium industry
development loan (2375-ME of 1983) includes about $18 million for FOHIN's
equity financing program, part of which might be used in ventures with a
significant component of technological innovation. An export development
loan (2375-ME of 1983) of $350 million includes up to $2 million for
financing technology imports. An industrial recovery loan to FONEI
includes an equity financing program that could later evolve to a form of
venture capital financing.
Industry Department
October 12, 1985



- 35 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONEI and Its Technology Development Program
A. Background
1.        FONEI, a Government trust fund administrated by Banco de Mexico,
was established in 1971 to provide long term financing for industrial
projects through commercial banks. As it become a more mature institution,
other operational objectives were emphasized. It encouraged banks to lend
on the basis of project viability rather than collateral, promoted greater
bank participation in loan preparation and supervision, and helped banks
improve project analysis. FONEI has become an important source of long-
term industrial financing, highly regarded by industrialists and banks.
Organization and Management
2.        FONEI's highest decision making body is its technical committee
composed of high level Government officials from the Ministry of Finance,
the Banco de Mexico, the Ministry of Planning, NAFINSA, the Ministry of
Commerce and Industrial Development, and industrial chambers. The techni-
cal committee meets once a month; its responsibilities include the approval
of credits, the appointment of FONEI's director, and the approval of its
operating rules and regulations. For technology subprojects, the technical
committee has delegated most of its authority to a specialized subcommit-
tee, that include officials from a number of research institutes, private
sector representatives and Government ministries.
3.        FONEI is organized in four departments, each headed by a
subdirector who reports to the director. The four departments correspond
to the main functions of the institution, Promotion, Training, Operation
and Administration and Projects.
FONEI's Financial Performance
4.        FONEI's financial structure is sound and capable of supporting
the increased lending projected. FONEI's equity has increased from 7% of
total assets in 1980 to 45% in 1984, following Government's decision to
assume the obligation of repayment of principal on Bank loans as a means of
capitalizing FONEI. This arrangement will continue under the proposed loan
and under the Industrial Recovery loan being processed concurrently.
Caritalization will be further accelerated by Government's decision to
repay interest on disbursements for new World Bank loans.
5.        FONEI's past financial performance has been satisfactory.  Real
return on equity averaged 63% in 1980-84 and only dropped to a low 8% in
1983 as a result of the period's high inflation and reduced FONEI lending.
By 1984, real return on equity improved to 28%. Good financial results
were partly due to most FONEI assets earning variable rates linked to CPP,



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 7
while its liabilities mainly comprised low fixed rate instruments. To
allow continued favorable performance in the future as new variable rate
rate liabilities begin to predominate, FONEI has increased its lending rate
to banks for nonsubsidized credits. Financial planning of FONEI will be
strengthened through the implementation of a comprehensive management
information system under the technical assistance component of the Industry
Recovery loan.
B. ITD Lending and Performance
6.        In 1978, FONEI added a technology program to its well established
fixed asset financing, providing credit on favorable terms for the
development of new or improved products and procesess and to promote new
technology to exploit domestic raw materials. A specialized Technology
Development Unit (TDU) was established in FONEI's Projects Department to
handle this program. ITD financing (loans plus grants) averaged
$9.5 million per annum between 1981 and 1984 (Annex 3, Table 1). By the
end of 1984, FONEI had approved a total of 242 ITD projects (113 different
credits). More than 50% of the projects were for product development, and
the balance comprised production process improvement, process and equipment
design, trial run production and test marketing, and establishment and
operation of in-house R&D facilities. Operations were concentrated mainly
in chemical and metal mechanic industries (36% and 31Z respectively of 1984
lending) although there has been growing subsector coverage, with lending
to nine subsectors in 1984 as opposed to five in 1981. Thirteen banks
participated in FONEI's ITD lending in 1983 and 1984, with a growing
presence of large banks.
7.        FONEI' portfolio reflects its initially very conservative
approach to ITD lending, biased in favor of large firms posing little
credit risk despite technological uncertainties of the projects. So far
FONEI has not had to honor any of its commercial bank guarantees. Of 98
projects supervised in 1984, 30% were completed essentially meeting
original objectives, 65% were being implemented and only 5% had to be
suspended.
8.        Facing rapid growth in the demand for ITD financing, and
following Government's agreement to support FONEI under the proposed Bank
loan, FONEI embarked in early 1985 on a major effort of promotion,
strengthening of operating policies and procedures, and building up of
staff and external financing for the ITD program.
C. Promotion of ITD Lending
9.        FONEI's enhanced promotion of its ITD operations entails
expanding the commercial banks' related expertise, training and orientation
of entrepreneurs, and initiatives to develop domestic subcontractors for
large private and public firms.



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 7
10.       FONEI trains and partially finances selected staff of commercial
banks assigned to promote and identify lending opportunities for FONEI's
growing ITD and working capital programs. At appraisal, FONEI had signed
contracts with 8 such industrial assistants (IA) and planned to reach a
total of 30 in 2 years, covering all major industrial regions.  Overall
responsibility for the IA program is with FONEI's Promotion Department,
assisted by the TDU on technical matters. IA performance and continuation
of FONEI financing will be examined periodically in terms of agreed project
generation targets. Continued IA training will include semiannual
countrywide workshops to exchange experience, participation in selected
FONEI courses, and in-service training in FONEI.
11.       In the past, courses offered by FONEI for commercial bank staff
(but attended as well by entrepreneurs, consultants and staff of other
agencies) have improved Bank project analysis and promoted FONEI
activities. FONEI's Training Department offers orientation seminars for
entrepreneurs and managers, to explain the nature and relevance of ITD and
advise on available sources of information and support. At appraisal,
FONEI had already given 3 such courses with an average 20 non-FONEI
participants and 12 more courses were scheduled by end 1985 in different
regions. While it is too early to gauge results, it is anticipated that
potential ITD clients will be identified through follow up of interested
participants in these seminars. Courses for university teachers and
graduating students are also planned in response to requests from these
institutions; the first course of this kind was to 25 professors of ITESM
in Monterrey. The Training Department organized in 1984 an exhibition of
firms and products developed with FONEI's ITD financing, which promoted
this program and also served as an effective marketing tool for
participation firms.
12.       The purchasing requirements of large firms can stimulate ITD
activity by prospective suppliers. To identify potential R&D projects for
local suppliers, FONEI's management currently attends meetings of
purchasing committees of large parastatal agencies. Seminars for
purchasing agents will be developed to highlight their role in promoting
LTD among their suppliers. Additionally, FONEI will try to induce the
large firms to make available relevant information on products that could
be developed by subcontractors with FONEI or other financing.
D. Operational Policies and Procedures
Eligible Borrowers and Type of Financing Provided.
13.       FONEI lends through financial intermediaries primarily to private
sector industrial firms (although there is some lending to parastatals),
research centers and engineering firms to finance all elements necessary to
support ITD projects, including purchase of basic information, process
engineering, raw materials and supplies, and operational and training
expenses for staff involved in the project. Also, for engineering firms or
R&D firms FONEI can authorize lines of credit to finance investment in
equipment and operating expenses.



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 7
14.       FONEI finances up to 80% of the estimated cost for each project
with a mix of loan and grant funds. Retroactive financing can be provided
for eligible expenditures incurred up to six months prior to approval by
FONEI's technical committee.  For projects which have an implementation
period of more than one year, financing is based on the estimated expendi-
ture for the first year; financing for subsequent years is considered as
new credits and determined by progress made during the first year.
Terms and Conditions of Financing
15.       For conventional loans the proposed interest rate to financial
intermediaries and final borrowers in FONEI's revised operating regulations
is 88% of CPP and 94X of CPP respectively, replacing CPP-5 and CPP-3.
Maturity and other loan conditions are determined by project characteris-
tics and the financial capacity of the firm with the maximum repayment and
grace period 13 years, and 3 years respectively. Borrowers can elect to
repay using the PVP scheme which (a) provides for immediate amortization of
principal, i.e., no grace period but (b) limits actual interest payments to
interest accrued on the amortized principal (see Annex 3, para 4). Grant
financing provided can be up to 30% of total FONEI financing depending on
project characteristics, with priority given to the innovative merit of the
project andhthe level of risk. Other factors given weight include (i)
whether thie project involves the participation of a research institution or
engineering firm (with the objective of strengthening linkages between
these institutions and the industrial sector), and (ii) the size of the
project in comparison with the economic capacity of the firm.
Incentives to Participating Firms and Intermediaries
16.       To encourage commercial bank ITD lending, FONEI provides guaran-
tees against loss of payment of interest and principal of up to 90% of the
credit approved, rediscounts 100% of ITD loans (against 90% for regular
equipment lending), and provides a revolving guaranteed line of credit for
smaller loans to reduce documentation and loan processing time.
17.       Since it takes on average three months from the date of approval
of a technology loan by FONEI, to finalize contracts between firms and
participating financial intermediaries, FONEI can provide bridging loans
for up to 50% of the loan amount approved to reduce the impact of this on
project implementation, provided documentation is submitted indicating that
eligible expenditure incurred exceeds 25%. For all credits, a bridging
loan of up to 25% of the loan amount approved can be provided, following
FONEI's loan approval.
Improvements Required
18.       During loan processing, aspects of FONEI's policies and proce-
dures were identified which need to be improved to allow the ITD program



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 7
to grow and better meet the needs of its target clients. These included
(a) expansion of financial instruments, (b) improvement in project evalua-
tion and supervision procedures and (c) articulation of a clear statement
of policy and strategy for the technology program.
19.       Financial Instruments.  To support firms undertaking higher risk
projects FONEI plans to add a conditional loan instrument to its existing
financial package. This will be used primarily but not exclusively for
financing, commercialization of locally developed technology, which have
higher market risk than similar projects financed under the traditional
equipment lending program. With conditional loans, FONEI and the investors
share the investment risk. Loan repayment schedules are based on the
expected revenues to be generated by the project. If revenues are less
than expected, FONEI may in consideration of the enterprises inadequate
overall financial position, reduce amortization of principal to a percent-
age of net revenues generated by the project and reschedule or remit any
outstanding balance when the subloan matures. To compensate for higher
risk, interest rate on conditional loans will include a risk premium,
determined according to methods and criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
Additionally, it was agreed during negotiations, FONEI would initiate
equity lending for ITD on a pilot basis. Terms and conditions would be
similar to those for other FONEI equity lending. Introduction in GIRA of a
new interest rate category for conditional and equity loans would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
20.       Project Evaluation and Supervision.  FONEI has gradually
developed and refined their project evaluation procedures to reflect the
special characteristics of technology lending (Annex 3) but there are still
some deficiencies. During the appraisal mission, existing procedures were
reviewed with the assistance of consultants with experience in technology
lending in Spain and Korea. Technical deficiencies were noted such as a
lack of detailed project risk and market anialysis. Further, understaffing
of the technology unit resulted in poor pt;ject documentation, particularly
when several projects are processed in the same credit. Supervision was
minimal and primarily administrative, lacking a focus on identifying
potential problems. These deficiencies are being addressed in FONEI's new
operating manual. Preparation of an operations manual satisfactory to the
Bank was a condition of Board presentation.
21.       Statement of Policy and Strategy.  To provide focus and direction
for the ITD program, it was felt FONEI needed to articulate clearly its
policy and strategy, identifying the program's objective, FONEI's grant and
interest rate policy, lending and staffing targets, promotional strategy
including target growth in industrial assistants, grant award criteria and
other features discussed during loan processing. Conclusion of a policy
statement satisfactory to the Bank was a condition of Board presentation.
E. Staff Resources
22.       Recognizing that ITD lending requires specialized expertise,
FONEI established a separate unit for ITD, within the Projects Department.



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 7
The unit has remained small, primarily because FONEI's management first
wished to establish the program and ensure that its operating policies met
the needs of industry, before embarking ou major staff expansion. Further,
Banco de Mexico's personnel policies, restricted salaries and age
limitations on entry level staff, made it difficult to hire the more
experienced persons required for technology lending. Prior to late 1984,
all promotional efforts, project evaluation and supervision of ITD projects
were carried out by the ITD Unit. More recently, however, other depart-
ments such as Promotion, Training and Supervision have been actively
engaged in ITD support activities.
23.       During the preparation of the proposed loan, it was agreed with
FONEI's management and Banco de Mexico, that major expansion of staff was
necessary to allow increased growth in ITD lending, and improved project
evaluation and supervision procedures. It was considered critical to
strengthen the technology and supervision units, in particular. This
entailed expansion from an equivalent of 5 positions in 1985 to 12
positions in 1986, with 8 new positions in the technology unit and 4 in
supervision. Attaining targeted lending in 1987 requires an estimated six
additional positions. It was agreed with FONEI and SCHP during appraisal
to make all efforts to secure approval for the additional seven staff
required in 1986 by loan negotiation in January 1986. FONEI would promptly
initiate an official request for staff, including staff for support areas
not quantified above. To expedite hiring, FONEI would advauce identifica-
tion of suitable candidates preferably with relevant industrial experi-
ence. Given the extensive training requirements, the agreed objective is
to fill five new positions as soon as possible following Government
approval and an additional two by loan effectiveness. Submission of a
formal request to SPP for the 1986 positions was a condition of negotia-
tions, with Government approval a condition of Board presentation. By loan
negotiations, Government had approved a total of 17 new staff positions for
FONEI, 7 in the ITD and supervision units and 10 in support units. It was
agreed that staff requirements for 1987 would he reviewed in late 1986 and
adjusted in terms of updated lending targets.
F. Projected Financial Performance of FONEI and the ITD Program
24.       The industrial recovery in progress in Mexico has led to
increasing commitments under FONEI's lending programs as wll as to a
strong pipeline of projects with FONEI and commercial banks. Additionally,
working capital financing which will be provided under the industrial
recovery loan and expansion of the ITD program is expected to result in
additional demand for FONEI's resources. FONEI's total annual commitments
are expected to grow from Mex$71 billion in 1986 to Mex$259 billion in 1989
(nominal terms) with the working capital, equity and ITD programs showing
the highest expected growth rates, and increasing from 17%, 10 and 13Z
respectively of total commitments in 1986 to 21%, 12% and 14% respectively
in 1989. FONEK's financial projections assume major demand for PVP loans,
with commitments increasing from 5OZ of total in 1985 to 85Z of total
commitments in 1989. Rapid growth in conditional loans, to be used
primarily to finance full scale operations of locally developed technology,



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 7
is also projected with an estimated total FONEI commitment for ITD between
1986 and 1988 of $79 million. The Government will capitalize FONEI by
repaying both principal and interest for new FONEI loans. FONEI has agreed
with Banco de Mexico that additional funds required to carry out its
expansion program, in excess of those provided by the Bank and self
generated funds will be onlent at .895% of CPP. With this support FONEI's
income is expected to grow from Mex$11 billion in 1986 to Mex$181 billion
in 1989, and total assets from Mex$119 billion in 1986, Mex$731 billion in
1989 in nominal terms. On these bases, it is expected that FONEI's return
on assets will average about 36% over the period and return on equity will
be positive in real terms throughout the period.
G. Impact of ITD Program
25.       Government has made a commitment to strengthen FONEI (para
3.18) through repayment of principal and interest on new Bank loans which
should ensure that FONEI can adequately provide the subsidies required to
support expansion of the ITD program (both interest rate and direct grants)
from its net income, over the project period. Provisions for losses in
FONEI's financial projections of 2.5% of new disbursements, which is
considered adequate, further protect FONEI's net income in the event it has
to honor its guarantees to financial intermediaries. The return on the
conditional loan portfolio is expected on average to be equivalent to that
on conventional loans, with high returns on most projects compensating for
lower returns on those less successful; an additional risk premium
currently calculated to range from 2-10% will compensate for an expected
failure rate on these loans of 30%. Provisions for losses in FONEI's
financial projections also take into account this expected level of
loss. Table 1A below shows the impact on overall FONEI net income duie to
both income and principal loss if conditional loan losses exceed this level
assuming zero inflation and zero growth in conditional loan lending after
1990 (the worst case scenario for reserve adequacy). Losses in earlier
years would be minimal. Under these assumptions, at failure rates of up to
50%, losses due to conditional loans would not exceed 3.1% of overall FONEI
income.
Table IA
Failure Rate of                Z Change in FONEI's Net Income
Conditional Loans         1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
40 percent               -0.77  -1.64  -0.59   0.51  -0.42  -1.34
50 percent               -1.54  -1.29  -1.18   3.11  -3.07  -2.88



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONEI ITD LENDING
Distribution by Industrial Subsector
Subsector                                        1981    1982    1983    1984
Amount (Million Pesos)
Metal products, machinery                          40      141      540      496
Construction                                        0        0      18        27
Non-metalic minerals                                0      180     215       360
Food, drink, tobacco                               15        2      11         0
Petrochemicals                                     25      108      99       570
Clothing, leather                                   0       36       0        90
Services                                           24       21     772         0
Printing, paper products                            0        0      15        30
Basic metals                                       82        0       0         5
Wood and wood products                              0        0       0         6
other                                               0        0      12        19
TOTAL                                             186      488   1,683    1,603
Composition (%)
Metal products, machinery                          22       29      32        31
Construction                                        2        0        1        2
Non-metallic minerals                               0       37      13        22
Food, drink, tobacco                                8        1       1         0
Petrochemicals                                     13       22       6        36
Clothing, leather                                   0        7       0         6
Services                                            0        7       0         6
Printing paper products                            13        4      46         0
Basic metals                                       44        0       0         0
Wood and wood products                              0        0       0         0
Other                                               0        0       0         1
100   100     10TO0     iOO



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONEI ITD LENDING
Distribution by Intermediary
Intermediary                    1981    1982    1983    1984
Amount (Million Pesos)
Bancomext                          9       82     438       399
Serfin                             0       25       62      399
Comermex                           0       34      23       164
Banpais                            0        2        0      151
Banamex                           79        7        0      140
International                      6      241     121       130
B.C.H.                             0       40     772        95
Bancomer                          15        0       29       38
Banco Regional                     0        0      174       27
Somex                             20       21      20         0
Banco de Credito                  50        0       0         0
Other banks                        7       36      44        60
TOTAL                            186      488   1,683    1,603
Composition (%)
Banconext                          5       1?      26        25
Serfin                             0        5       4        25
comermex                           0        7       1        10
Banpais                            0        0       0         9
Banamex                           42        1       0         9
International                     3        50       7         8
B.C.H.                             0        8      46         6
Bancomer                           8        0       2         2
Banco Regional                     0        0      10         2
Somex                             11        4       1         0
Banco de Credito                  27        0       0         0
Other banks                        4        8       3         4
TOTAL                            100      100     100       1O0



- 44 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONEI ITD LENDING
Distribution by Geographical Area
Intermediary                     1981    1982    1983    1984
Amount (Million Pesos)
Nuevo Leon                        110      204      98       810
Tlaxcala                            0       28      46       394
Distrito Federal                   37       94     790       102
Mexico                              6      106     520        98
Jalisco                             0        0      194       23
Others                             33       56      36       176
TOTAL                             186     488      683    1,603
Composition (C)
Nuevo Leon                         59       42        6        51
Tlaxcala                            0        6       3        25
Distrito Federal                   20       19      47         6
Mexico                              3       22      31         6
Jalisco                             0        0       12         1
Other                              18       11        1       11
TOTAL                             100      100 I17           100



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FONEI ITD LENDING
Distribution by Loan Size
Size (Million Pesos)             1981    1982    1983    1984
Amount (Million Pesos)
Less than 15                       43       64      104       129
15 to 25                           40       95      76       153
25 to 50                           26      149       50      233
50 to 75                            0        0        0      190
75 to 100                          77        0       84       90
100 to 175                          0      180     173       214
More than 175                       0        0   1194         594
TOTAL                             186      448   1,683    1.603
No. of Projects
Less than 15                       14       12       12        15
15 to 25                            2        5        4        8
25 to 50                           1         4        1         7
50 to 75                            0        0        0         3
75 to 100                           1        0        1         1
100 to 175                          0        1        1        2
More than 175                       0        0        2         2
TOTAL                              18        2T 2138



- 46 -
ANNEX 5
Table 5
IIBIC0
Technlogqy Dmv.Iopst Pro;jct
INCO1l STATEIENT
(Pugs illiaon)
AC TU AL                                            FORECAST
REVENUES                         190       1981      1992      193      194       195       196       1937     I9S9      199       190
Interest  ncus                   1044      211      4662    12155    16543    21111    47359        0596   139411   214254   335796
EXPENSES
Interest Ehpue                    64        934      2052     6710      693       95    14613   1iS7l    21323    29166    29105
Persaonnl Costs                    28        42        74       114      lql       386       524       743      1013     1391      1953
Other Atin Costs                    14       57       721      1117      123       164       447       693       970     1310      1769
Provisions f{r Losses                                                               79       16S       494      1093     2049      3434
.'ET INCOE                        356      115S      1835     4214      9593    10657    31609    72991   115021   191346   29



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
BALANCE SHEET
(Pesos lillion)
A C T U A L                                        F O R E C A S T
ASSETS                           1960     1991      1982     1983      1904      1995     1996      1967      1988     19B9      1990
Sovurnmnet Bonds                  976       38         5         1      197      3751    15036        10        10       10      7391
Loans                            7143    10573    1717    21906    36434    4f726   104045   229446   437191   730350  1152077
Receivables                       307      625      1230        !9       26        42        74      119       172      239       330
Other Assets                        2        4         4         4       15       115       136      164       200      247       307
TOTAL ASSET5                     8328    1;240    19056    26930    36672    51635   119291   229739   437590   730846  1160106
LIABILITIES
Payables                          164      209       579      1272     1260      4162     7122    11015    16647    25039    36391
Banco DB  exica Loans            3790     3260      3280     2960      3764       955      121         0    33254    542       51090
zlurd Bank Loan - 2331-NE                                                13       932     9453    16302    15359    14254    13150
lorid B.nk Loan - Others         3695     4846      6589     9298    12353    13562t   27484    28959    27106    '5119    21355
Other 9.mk Loans                  116     1175      5042     7701      2879      5407     6500      5909      4614     2909       773
Other U .ilities                    5       10        IS        ;3       30        95       174      196       224      2.60      306
uOTAL LIABILITIES               7760      9519    15504    21164    20349    25012    49854    62291    97203   121960   123065
Capital                           .25      125       :2S      125       125      2903    17177    43049   103422   192211   322260
Accus Profits                      87      441      1592     34:6      7606    16199    2759    57993   !30224   244452   424749
E.c:hange Variation                                                              3040     56;3      6915     7497      7974     9156
Net Income                        ;56     1155      1835     4214      6593    10657    31609    72991   115021   11134    299636
Less Subsidies                                                                     97      475       660      793      1052      1U7
TOTAL EUUITY                      568     1721      3552     7765    16323    26623    69438   166458   340 37 7 60696  1037041
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUIrT       9328    1:240    19056    29929    366;2    51635   119291   228739'  437580   730946  1160106
Reserves for Losses                                                                79      244       738      1621     370      7130
E-'ity to rotal AssetsWl          6.8z    15.3Z    19.61    26.9?    44.51    51.61    59.21    72.9Z    77.9!    93.3?    89.4?
Return an Assets                  4.3!    11.9!    12.1S    17.6?    26.2!    24.1?    37.0!    41.??    34.5?    31.0?    31.7?
Return an Equity                167.9I   204.1?   106.9!   119.7?   111.2Z    66.7?    83.6?    78.1?    51.0!    42.4?    40.61



- 48 -
ANNE 5
Table 7
tchnology IhlopuIt Projet
SOIKES I USES OF FUS
(Pn s mini2
FORECAST
SOWRCES                        198$    1986       1997     1,99     1999     1990
Surplus                                          15024        0        0        0
RePaYets Pr.-!9P  Credits  14294        7421     63       5251      3571     1819
Repaymt Normal Loans              0      114      1143     3219     95U    21370
Reiaymnt of PIP Loans             0     5344    14374    30        59182    84613
Payelen                        2902     2960     3893    532       939     11352
3arco DB  Mexico               3199        0         0    3325     21025        0
I[RD Dish.(exist. loans)       4906    24937    134       1996      1399      236
I=RD Disb.(neu  loans)            0    10780    22336    56794    95422   126049
Other  iabilities                15       79       22       2a        3        46
Net Incone                    10657    31609    72991   115021   181341   299636
Non Cash Expenses                79      165      494      1093     2049     3434
TOTAL T3042    93410   150737   252812   370973   541554
PPLICATION
Disbursemnts                  20645    41044    92903   148228  218559   302795
PYP Financing                  3612    24624    55932   96893   128650   20234
Interest Receivable            1408     3695     9171   13m77    19314    27922
Receivables                      16       32       45       53        66       92
Domstic Repayments             6098      734     1225      1104     1104     4293
Foreign Repayents               512     1500      l173     1977    ;182      2318
Subsidies (Tech  Program)        97      475      660      793      1052     1447
Fixed  nvestsment               100       21       28       36        47       60
Surplus                        3554    11295        0        0         0     7381
TOTAL                         36042    83410   150737  252812   370973   54854



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Table 8
MEXICO
Technaolgy Developunt Project
INCOME STATEMET - TD PR0GRAM
(Pesos Million)
FSRECAST
REVENUES                       ;19BS       986     1997      1988     1999      1"O0
[nterest Incom                  1152      4799    10453    16931    26694    44003
Norul Payemts                  302       953     1142      1134     1251      1504
SPYP                           950      3936     9310    15797    25443    42499
EXPOSES
Interest Expense                 a20      3046     4285      4806     5715      7114
ahnco de Mexico    0.995       920      3046     4265     4809      5715     7114
Operating Expnses                 66       155      330       496      673       905
Provisions for Losses             79       165      49       1083     2049      3434
Guarantees                      .61       53      136       166      225       290
Conditional Loans               18       *12      358       917     1824     3143
TOTAL                            965      3367     5109     6397      8437    11453
MET ICOME                        1e89    1422      5344    10544    16257    32550



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Table 9
BALANCE SHEET - ITD PROGRAN
(Pesos Million)
F 0 REC AST
ASSETS                          1985     1996      1987     199B    1999       1990
Loans                           3444    10403    27403    54647    94077   152963
Less Reserves for Losses          79       244      739     1921      3970     7304
Receivables                      241      729      1919     3925     6595    10707
TOTAL ASSETS                    3606    10897    29583    56651    9672   15637
LIABILITIES
Payables                         148       696     1467     2332      3361     4642
Banco de Mexico Loans           3271     6453    10955    15904    20586    24836
TOTAL LIABILITIES               3419     7149    12422    19236    23947    29479
EQUITY
Capital                            0     2129      9207    20916    37092    5598I
Accus Earnings                     0       189     1610     6954    17498    35755
Subsidy Authorized                97      572      1232     2025     3078      4525
Subsidy Disbursed                -97     -572    -1232    -2025    -3079    -4525 
Net Incsbe                       189     1422      5344    10544    19257    32550
TOTAL EQUITY                     198     3738    16161    39414    72847   126894
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY      3606    10897    28953    5660    96794   15672
Reserve for Losses                79      244       738     1921     3870      7304
Return on Assets                 5.2Z    13.1:    19.7Z    18.6U    18.92    20.91



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Table 10
MEXICO
Technology Development Project
SOURCES & USES OF FUNDS - ITD PROGRAN
(Pesas tilli(in)
FO RECA ST
SOURCES                          1995      1986      1997      1999      1989     1990
Net Income                         199     1422      5344    10544    1927    32550
Mon-cash expenses                   79      165       494      1003      2049     3434
Repaysent of other loans             0        0       102       259       402     1045
Repayment of PVP loans             197      599      1242      3053      5782     9946
Payables                           148      549       771       865      1029     1291
Banco Be 01exica                 3271      3182      4502      4949      4682     4250
B3RD Disbursement                   0      2!29      7079    11709    16176    21497
Srants Alioaated - FIIEI            97      475       660       793      1052     1447
TOTAL SOURCES                    3979      9519    20194    33287    49421    75450
APPLICATION
Disbursements                     991      4275    10522    13016    26402    39730
?VP Financing                     750      3282      7922    12571    19212    31149
.eceivables                       241       487      1190      1?07      760      4122
Loan Repayments                                                             2         3
Subsidies -Fire Grants              97      475       660       793      1052      1447
TOTAL APPLICATIONS               3979      8519    20194    33287    4943        75450



-52 -
,-NNEX 5
'fable  1I
Page 1 of 2
Tmbfulqy hwlopmt Fujuct
hu_tims for FGI's Finacial ProjectieM
ISS      19s i    195     1Jim      199      199
Cuuutsts                                                    (P. Nil limI
Equipft                                 16944    37060    790      966K   12h76   179627
Capacity Optilizatiu                    1114      2162     906    35         S70      7393
Pollutim CutreL                          163      2040    3m        3499     3        2476
ITO CouVuis   l Loon                      35     4749     M601      794    1         14472
1tD Cmnitimml  L_me                      976     4731     "99      19514    24Z      3'7V
akitng Capital                           1291    12056   2611    37131    33137    MM
Pr.-lutuut seiou                        315      13       1614     2231      11      *124
Equity                                     0      ON0    13001    2515    2910    39
TOTAL                                  2605    71493   12         193103  25961   347193
Diuburhumts
Equiput                                11251    25547    4783      173   111312   133
Capacity Optimiz tiu                     1151     1153     2970     4161     5709      6
Pollution Custrel                        930      913      296      23       4227    36
ITO Convntiaid Lose                     2452     2137     5439       27      m93    11619
ITD Cauitimul Loim                       439     213-   503    11399    17419   27111
aorking tlCitul                          950      5425    11909    2441       75      30
Pru-lnvetmt 9b_                          142      621       960     1992     2486     32
E;uity                                     0      3105    5650    14123   21127    31319
TcTAL.                                 1ms    41044    92903   189221   21539   3027
Prograu hturut Nate
Equipswt                       1.09    36.00    70.00    55.00    40.00    35.00    35.00
C:pacity Optim im              1.04    S.24    72.80    57.20    41.60    36.40    36.40
Pollutio  Ctrde         .      O.N    49.21    61.60    49.40    35.20    30.80    30.90
iT1  Covati_d  Lam             O.N    49.2o    61.60    4.40    35.20    30.00    30.10
ITO CU itim    Loans           1.00    56.00    70.00    55.00    40.00    35.00    35.00
Morking Capital                1.04    59.24    72.10    57.20    41.60    36.40    i6.U
Pre-lavatmt Stuiu              0.0    49n.23    61.60    4.4       3S.20    30.80    30.80
Equity                         '..5    31.80    73.50    57.75    42.00    36.75    3.75
cOPpl                                     56        70       55       40       33       33
Focbigk                                   m        5        me0      725      we       I
PoLUUUl                                   3        7,        *0      5a        is       Is



53 -
ANNEX 5
Table ll
Page 2 of 2
World Bank Disbursements
Disbursements-for new World Bank loans considered capital when disbursed.
Disbursements-for existing World Bank loans cousidera.d capital when
repaid. World Bauk disbursements assumed to average 25% of total annual
PONEI disbursements.
Banco de Mexico Loans
Interest rate .895Z of ACF. Assumed cost of funds for all non-World Bank
disbursements for the ITD program .895% of ACF.
FONEI Conventional ITD Loans
Average maturity eight years with two years grace.
Conditional Loas
Average return ou conditional loan portfolio assur d, equivalent to return
on conventional nonsubsidized PVP loans. Expected failure rate conditional
loans 30%. Losses will materialize in four years. Principal recovery in
event of loss 25Z.
Provision for Losses - Conditional Loans
0     1st     2nd      3rd   year following disburs_meat
4%    6%      6%      6.5%
Provision for Losses - Conventional Loans
2.5% of new disbursements.
Grant
Equivalent to 10% of FONEI commitments for subsidized ITD loans.
Otbers
1. Personnel costs assumed to increase 5X per aniwm is real terms.
2. Other administrative costs assumed to increase vith inflation.



FONEI Organization Char?
Techrical Camr tee
I
Aw hp ra ii i  S    lso an      $  so ls        S yit o m       P tr d   e        CPod it       h l Om Otlo n
O fficuq O t loe n   | O ff hM    aNAs 9            d lg o         f ah *       h   Auayc ti                                      i
UkYd9ar*-3CO27         I)



- 55 -
ANNEX 6
"MOD
JIIXJSTRIAL ThXUIW Y M.V3DPMFr PmJEcr
OCrogram of Preparadoi - Infrast:rcture Capxaents
0ONAW    - R&D Centers
1985                  1986
Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan  Feb __r   Ar           Jun Jul kg           Oct Nov Dec
Meeeirngs %th industriaLists
Appointntrt nf CNACff cxultats             __
Initial feasibility anluysis of
preselectel *vnters
Final feasibility analyses                                  _
Prearatio  of draft irnvsents
PLV
Final plans preparation ard start
of discussio with inteested
i-dustrialists
DXGN - Metrology Stdies
1985                   1086
Dec   Jan  Feb Mr   Apr My   Jun  hd  Aug  Sep (k:t
Call anr reception of expression
of interest fron national laboratories
Iritial diswsions
Define work program
Final ize contract



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan Disbursement Schedule
IBRD                             US$
Fiscal                  Estimated Disbursements          Profile, Z
Year     Semester       Period        Cumulative      Project Standardr/
1987       1st            4.82/           4.8            10        0
2nd           2.6             7.4            15         6
1988       1st            3.9            11.3            24        15
2nd            5.2           16.5            34        27
1989       1st            5.6            22.1            46       40
2nd            5.2           27.3            57        52
1990       1st            5.1            32.4            68       64
2nd           4.8            37.2            78        75
1991       1st            3.9            41.1            86       84
2nd           3.0            44.1            92        91
1992       1st            2.2            46.3            97       96
2nd            1.7           48.0           100       100
1/ Standard profile for IDF Mexico operations without retroactive
financing.
2/ Retroactive financing.



- 57 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Selected Documents in Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1 -Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Cientifico y Tecnologico 84-88-.
Poder Ejecutivo Federal, August 1984.
A.2  -Catalogo de Centros e Institutos de Investigacion Cientifica
Desarrollo Tecnologico en Mexico". CONACYT, 1984.
A.3 -Los Centros de Investigacion y Desarrollo Tecnologico Coordinad' por
CONACYT-. CONACYT, 1984.
A.4 "Mecanismos de Apoyo Financiero al Desarrollo Tecnologico de Mexico".
CONACYT, 1985.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1 Project Brief. Revised August 2, 1985.
B.2 Issues Paper. Revised September 18, 1985.
B.3 Decision Memorandum. October 4, 1985.
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables
C.1 *Informe de la primera fase del proyecto conjunto CONACYT-Banco
Mundial sobre participacion industrial en los centros publicos de
investigacion y desarrollo tecnologico coordinados por SPP-CONACYT".
J. Pavon and F. Medina, August 1985.
C.2 *Ejemplos de proyectos realizados por centros coordinados con la
industria". CONACYT, August 1985.
C.3 'Report on the technology project appraisal mission to Mexico - policy
studies". F. Sercovich, August 1985.
C.4  "Analisis de los incentivos fiscales para el fomento de las
inversiones en investigacion y desarrollo tecnologico -- primer avance
del proyecto". SECOFI/DGPI, May 1985.
C.5 "Quality control and metrology in Mexico". H. S. Peiser, December 12,
1985.
C.6 -Comments on FONEI system and activities". H-S. Shim, August 1985.
C.7  "FONEI - Notes for Appraisal Report" (Spanish).  J. Pavon, August
1985.
C.8  "Reglas Generales de Operacion del Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
(FONEI)". June, 1985.
C.9  FONEI:  "Manual de Operacion del Programa de Apoyo Financiero al
Desarrollo Tecnologco."
C.10 FONEI: Lineamientos de Politica Respecto del Programa de Apoyo
Financiero al Desarrollo Tecnologico de FONEI."



- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir lo
-''N- ,..                                                                      L UNITED       STATES       OF       AMERICA
0E.ncodo           \\s
yA A O tfi-NograIesJT                               p'*, ;,,._  
SA4ggIl~RJ A                                                                              .  Jae
1                                    1 '   .      '    '
20'~~ ~~~~ :                                                         -                      '\,f                                            _
A                         .~~~~~U
*ectemos                     S. .*                            '1                              A    f
P ''..a   NdN-
'^  .^|. P                          ~~~~~~~~Torreon'^ ~    
iC  --acone. c..II
^         .*. ,ur,goo' N
a~~~            ~ ke  aro                                         '                          I,..
e                                                                       MonMozotl
(ul n          -Aguof entesso
Tewc
V. Iorezner .
Col
KILOMETERS O          tO0      200        300       *00       Soo
. ~ ~   ~~~            M.oro ..
MItLES O              too             200             300o
0CnboS L'                                                                            Zacrcs -
r    _1 t D ^ Dt- 01 t t D' l~ WSS -                                                      A               F
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sc_  o                                                                 p,'ut  F'  ^Z. 
110-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tc.n'-
_                                              .~~~~~~~~~



IoRD 15553
io- gO.IJANLUARY 1451
3C'-
_ _
,                                                   ~~~~~~M E X I C O
t-  .\t  National capital
,Ic *                                                                           Ia    Stote capitols
Nueva LaredoN                                                                0     Principol titles or towns
Ntwuc; Lored;t-%                                                                            Divided highways
A ^  b  ;                                                                       Selected main roads
*                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads
Rivers
f Principal airports
s -                                    fReynoso<F;T. > _ State boundaries
*          -se Matamoros                                                        ._  _. Internotional boundories
Ciudcd\'
Victoriax
Aid
-oa '                              .. , 
- CdMC-Pi.f2'Comech
\  \   CdMhlodr J
'~~LuisPatos.                 Tom.or pica
t -   ~           ACd VoIIn 
Xeoujr  -            - -                                        .Me                                                ;-        h,.e..do'    A
: ,JOtO   r!  OTusrn n                                                     I   zJ o  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-:- -    .,gZbdo'4 o  .
To;uc      d,<Pochuc                                                                     Compecke
MEXICO               i                                                                            fJaChum
CuQF ternwo  r     ue
i   : 4 cl,ercu o' /c    -; *J a     n,C . -                                                                                 etumaI
_s~~~.N                                              . T"tOj   .e Andrci rv.dn0,
TN.                         Lid  ..N
/                             . AM~O9.*ICfl  ;, vilahermosc r                -
~~ch,lpanc.ngo                         t-C--
,Cahtlponcorlgo   =Q>Ooxaca  i           ..  ..         N.                   * BELIZE
Aropuko0-                     -!                                            A sTuxtla Gutierrez
*ozn    Awunpr                         _*|i
0                      4
Purto Ennlcord,doO    .                              <           /      > GUAT E M A L A
TopachuiG)                                  HONDURAS
to'                                                                                                     oo__ ___



LJNITED        STATES        OF       AMERICA
-d. ~  ~    ~    ~     N
PA SA  050.,F.Iper.       --Nogo.esq.*   7                             -  -I
.h .                                                         v0
'~            -    .         ,,
4iHe-mor.llo ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                                   '' ~ ~ . 
G         O    miyios  ,                      .                                  '
Cullocor        .'-
- -  - ~~5e.aenPo.oi.o  - -   'Jo....,,  -                Porrolo
X k.                       --   
N'                                 MC
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a   ,..Torreo~JA'-+ -.-&
KILOMETERS 0   100   200       lOD     L Poz        500
.  .imacan         .                   f   .  Ci         ce
LUrvL onurngo0 
AAILIES  100        200               300~~~~~~~~~~                                   1J-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               -



'dr                                                                                      00                                    IBRD 15553
io-                         )~~~~~~~~ANUARV 1981
30.
' ~~~M EXICO
'3 N~~~~~~ 
National capitol
i.*.                                                                                  Staoe capitols
K eroLoredz0    Principot cities or towns
Divided highwoys
-   Selected main roods
, T  r  , .>                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roilroods
-  t   _                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
.            A>Tt~Q m~,rosA.                                                  ePrincipal airports
Stote boundaries
Ir.iernatiou,aI bcjndories
Ciudad'
,1I       Victoriais13
V.O
L.. 
Cd MAr.,{        A
4             '  | L         Cd Mad-o
I Luis osP                 Tai.rnopco
t   ~       ~~~ ,t.Cd Voctii  L}PoO.i
: i' ~ ~ ~ t; M   rdoW  t/  pro
i.uto  V.                      oTi.poi                                                                                      . J  Odi.d  A
j- ' ueoretaro    L. c                                                                                                              OFutE r.20.1
aocu-                  CVercruzch
Cuernovoco     {     Puebl                                                      Cd   ot    n              *4 Chetum o
_;~       ~~                                            4              .seo/                  C- ~2t     gVlieris Z ---
,_        t~Chil wanc rmgo                a             /                                     -Kc.                    BLIZ
Ac\pulcoVe*r: ocr - ,.          -ATuxtia Guterrez
Tolucr"a^v                           Te"ode*                                 6.1                           !
1W, I                                                                     C.,-.oc.  .T. ....?- . -Cetryo
eEwnndvdo                                                        J      GUATEJ AA
>_/                                 a-'
Ta pachuloS )                              HONDUKAS
-   _    l'                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ on- .*
tar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



IBRD 15553
JANUAIt 1lu
30'
'.'                                               ~~~~~M E X I C O
53   K                                                                            '      Notional capital
- ,i0   State capilols
1.\*                                                                      Li   Principal cilies or towns
Nuevo LoredoZ!                                                                          D..ded highways
Selected mion roads
N) t   . >                                                      --    Raldrods
f             <                                                                       Ri,ers
A     Principal airports
,Reynas  >-       _                                                      S'are jcJndorpes
Matamoros
e Moramaros                                        _._ -. Insernai.anal boundar-es
' 0
V ictoriaj
!      C 1 MO..i..{   '
Cd Mod--o
~ -LuisPolosi  " \ <~ ..- Tonmpico
0                  ~~~~~0
Me,.clos        _
uoto                                                                                                      A"            O
it,  ureto           Pachucoo ;t::                                                                    Meid ~       > ..3;            r-A
*                                                                                   S'zti&qr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.
chucchuco                                                           Coampechec
MEXICO                         Jalap
a/ a,           axar.   \b',Verocruz
Toluca
.t.  *r0~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .                 r1..~~~~~~~~~~~,  - ~~~~Cheturnal
Cuernavaco    /    'h                                                        *     0*           - -
r,,r,-                               ,                  l.- - A_d -    -                         i                 i
go   -       0~~~vilalaerrr,oSa o
Ch.lpancngo             IC7
I                                      N.eOoXoco           *SI  tLIZE
AcopuT...I
Ali                       a Tiila Gutierrez
P O-  . oEw         T.hi....... Jw.in -                          -  -       _
A^tEordo                                         '            /      ',,4E1;L/
Topochula)_  s(rlUA
- ~ ~~~ -oa                     Ats1  
Topachulab.                     HONDIJRAS
10(r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-






