Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13271
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2747-ME)
JUNE 30, 1994
Country Operations Division I
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = One Mexican Peso (Mex$) = 100 cents
Average Exchange Rates
1978           US$1=           22.8
1979           US$1=           22.8
1980           US$1=           23.0
1981           US$1=           24.5
1982           US$1=           57.4
1983           US$1=          120.2
1984           US$1=          167.8
1985           US$1=          257.0
1986           US$1=          611.8
1987           US$1=        1,378.2
1988           US$1=        2,273.1
1989           US$1=        2,261.7
1990           US$1=        2,821.0
1991           US$1=        3,020.5
1992           US$1=        3,070.5
1993 (March)    US$1=           3.1 (New Peso)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACF                Index of Average Cost of Funds
BdM                Banco de Mexico (Central Bank)
CENAM              Centro Nacional de Metrologia
(National Center for Metrology)
CONACYT            Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia
(National Council of Science and Technology)
DGCP               Direccion General de Capacitacion y Productividad
(Department of Training and Productivity)
DGPI               Direccion General de Politica Industrial
(General Directorate of Industrial Policy)
FIDETEC            Fondo de Investigacion y Desarrollo Tecnologico
(Technology Research and Development Fund)
FOMIN              Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial
(National Fund for Industrial Development)
FONEI              Fondo de Equipamiento Industrial
(Industrial Equipment Fund)
FONEP              Fondo Nacional de Estudios y Proyectos
(National Fund for Studies and Projects)
GIRA               General Interest Rate Agreement
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                International Monetary Fund
INFOTEC            Instituto de Informacion Tecnologica
(Institute for Information and Technological Development)
ITD                Industrial Technology Development
NAFIN              Nacional Financiera S.A.
(Govemment's National Industrial Development Bank)
PCR                Project Completion Report
R&D                Research and development
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SECOFI             Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial
(Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development)
SINCA              Sociedad de Inversiones en Capitales
(Capital Investment Company)
SOE                Statements of Expenses
TA                 Technical Assistance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






FOR OFFICLALUSE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahbin0o, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of0ic of DiricGoOm
Op.rtioa  EvaBAtioc
June 30, 1994
MIEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Mexico - Industrial Technology
Develoment Proiect (Loan 2747-ME)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Mexico - Industrial Technology Development Project
(Loan 2747-ME) prepared by Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrowers.
The project aimed at: (i) improving industrial technology development (ITD) policy instruments
through policy analysis; (ii) selective strengthening of technology infrastructure; and (iii) expansion and
strengthening of specialized technology financing.
A combination of factors: (a) uncertain investment climate, particularly in the early stages of
implementation; (b) high real interest rates; (c) absence of an explicit technology policy; (d) limited
commercial bank participation in rislier financial operation such as equity, conditional loans or venture
capital; (e) tendency to finance commercialization rather than activities more upstream of the innovation
cycle; and (f) disruption in Industrial Equipment Fund's (FONEI) activities as a result of its merger with
Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) in 1989, helped slow down the disbursement of the line of credit and
seriously undermine the realization of the project objectives.
The selective strengthening of technology infrastructure also met with little success as the
restructuring/privafization of the R & D institutes received little support from the private sector and was
eventually abandoned.
The ITD policy analysis component was instrumental in providing a framework for the discussion
between the Bank and the Government of Mexico, leading eventually to the adoption of technology policies
which were supported under the Bank's Industrial Sector Policy Loan 3087-ME. Despite the relative
success of this policy analysis component, the other components of this project were poorly designed and
did not achieve their objectives. The project outcome is, therefore, rated as marginally unsatisfactory.
The sustainabiity of the project is rated as uncertain and its institutional development as modest.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It provides a good and candid assessment of the implementation
experience. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document bas a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Bs contents
nay not otherwis be disclosd without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
Preface ............................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................                                                             ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.  Project Identity   ........................................
H. Background ...........................                                                                    1
m. Project Objectives and Description ............................ 3
IV. Project Design and Organization ...........................                                               5 
V. Project Implementation ...........................                                                       10
VI.  Project Results   ....................................                                                  15
VII.  Project Sustainability and Future Directions ...................... 22
VII. Bank Performance .................................... 24
IX. Borrower Performance .................................. 24
X. Project Relationships .................................... 25
XI. Consulting Services .................................... 25
XII. Project Documentation and Data ............................. 26
XIII. Lessons Learned ....................................   26
Part II: PROJECT REVIEW FROMM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Background ...................................                                                         30
H. Project Objectives and Description ............................ 30
III. Project Organization and Design ............................. 31
IV. Project Implementation ................................... 31
V. Project Results ...................................                                                      33
VI. Lessons Learned ...................................                                                      35
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.  Project Timetable and Use of Bank Resources and Disbursements
Table 2.  Status of Covenants
Table 3.  Project Costs and Financing
Table 4.  Subproject Data and Performance
Table 5.  Characteristics of Enterprises Financed
Table 6.  Subprojects with NAFIN  Guarantees
Table 7.  Technical Assistance Subprojects






MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Technology
Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2747-ME in the amount of US$48.0 million was
approved by the Bank on July 29, 1986. The closing date has been extended to December 31,
1993 to allow the Borrower to complete disbursement.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Country Operations
Division I of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III), and the borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in November, 1992, and it is based inter alia,
on data obtained during a ten-day mission to Mexico in November, 1992, and on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Project Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, interviews of Bank staff involved in the
implementation of the project, and internal Bank memoranda.



I



MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
I.          The Industrial Development Technology (ITD) Project was designed to help
improve the capability of industry to undertake technological innovation needed to face increasing
competition in the context of the Government's economic liberalization program. The project had
three objectives: (a) improving ITD policy instruments through policy analysis; (b) selective
strengthening of technology infrastructure; and (c) expansion and strengthening of specialized
technology financing. Of these objectives, perhaps the most crucial was to help focus the
Government's attention on policies and related instruments designed to encourage lrT
industry-wide. This was expected to become an integral part of the ongoing industrial policy
dialogue between the Government and the Bank, and to help improve explicit policy instruments.
Infrastructure strengthening was sought through the restructuring of a number of public R&D
centers and improvement in the metrology services. Finally, the project provided funds through
a line of credit channelled through the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) located in the Banco
de Mexico (BdM), to support FONEI's on-going lTD financing program.
Economic and Fmnancial Sector Environnent
II.         Following the sharp drop in industrial production in 1982-83, major improvements
in macroeconomic policies in 1984 led to a modest recovery in industrial output. However, this
recovery was short-lived due to a reflation of the economy in early 1985 which, while providing
a short-term stimulus, soon led to balance of payment difficulties. Industrial output fell by 5%
during 1986, aggravated by the collapse of oil export earnings. Problems caused by the severe
recession in the domestic market were compounded by the deterioration in the financial structure
of many industrial enterprises. The crisis was felt more by among medium and large-scale
enterprises which had to reduce output considerably. The larger enterprises with higher overhead
had the most difficulties in adjusting to the reduced demand situation.
III. Until 1988 the Government intervened heavily in the financial sector to fund Government
deficits and to favor certain economic activities. Commercial banks were forced to lend the bulk
of their funds to the Government, public enterprises and other favored sectors at below market
interest rates. Efforts to limit Govemment transfers and interest rate subsidies to development
banks and trust funds led to the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) between the Government



- iii -
and the Bank in 1984 under which interest rates to final borrowers were made variable and were
to be raised over time. Starting in 1988 the Government implemented a series of measures to
liberalize the financial sector, supported by the Bank under the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
- FSAL (Ln. 3085-ME). Most directed lending and all interest rate controls on deposits were
removed. Far-reaching legislative and constitutional reforms supported the financial sector
liberalization process. By 1989, several laws governing various types of financial institutions
were amended with a view to increasing competition and reducing market segmentation. The
supervision and regulations of banks and nonbank financial institutions were strengthened and
restrictions on participation of foreign investors in the capital of nonbank financial institutions
were relaxed. Finally, the constitution was amended in 1990 to allow full private ownership of
commercial banks. The effects of the changes were dramatic in terms of growth rates and
profitability in the commercial banking system.  These increasingly profitable and stable
operations set the stage for a re-privatization of the commercial banks and a retrenchment of the
development banks and trust funds.
III. As part of restructuring the financial sector, starting in 1988 the Government refocused
the lending of its development-related institutions to viable projects and stopped using them to
distribute transfers. Subsidies were generally reduced. The largest development bank, Nacional
Financiera S.A. (NAFIN), was transformed into a second-tier lender, while four industry related
trust funds, including Fondo Nacional de Equipamiento, the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI)),
which was originally in charge of implementing the project, were merged into it. The reforms
diminished considerably the role of directed credit. While in 1987 directed credit represented
over 60% of total credit flows, this was reduced to 12% by 1990.
Implementation Experience
IV.   The project was identified in September, 1984, appraised in August, 1985, negotiated in
April, 1986, and approved by the Board in July, 1986. It became effective in October, 1986.
Loans funds were planned to be fully committed by June, 1989 and disbursed by June, 1992. The
loan of US$48.0 million was made available to NAFIN with the guarantee of the Government for
15 years, including 3 years' grace. The closing date has been extended twice to December 31,
1993. The project will thus close one and the half year behind schedule. The slower than
expected disbursements were caused by: (a) clouded investment climate, particularly in the early
stages of implementation, exacerbated by extremely high nominal and real interest rates resulting
from a deceleration of inflation and the downward stickiness of interest rates; (b) absence of an
explicit technology policy and strategy, during the early years, that would foster technological
investments; (c) under-performance in equity, risk capital, financing; (d) limited commercial bank
participation in riskier financial operations particularly upstream of the innovation cycle; and (e)
disruption in FONEI's activities as a result of its merger with NAFIN in 1989.
V.   In retrospect, the following aspects of project design contributed to the mixed success of
the project. On the positive side, the IDT policy analysis component was instrumental in bringing
about improvements in the policy and institutional framework for technology innovation in Mexico
(paras. 6.4-6.5). On the negative side, the R&D centers and the ITD financing components were



- iv -
badly conceived. In the mid-1980s while Mexico was going through the worst economic crisis,
very few Mexican companies were willing or able to invest in R&D facilities. Those which could
build their own centers rather than buy public R&Ds with all their inherent problems. Besides,
the component did not have strong support within Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia,
National Council of Science and Technology (CONACYT), except for the then Deputy Director
who, however, left the institution early during project implementation (para. 5.7). The underlying
conception and assumptions of the credit line were incorrect. Risky operations such as technology
development should not be financed with loans. Although conditional loans were offered, they
were not used by generally traditional commercial banks and were discontinued when FONEI was
merged with NAFIN in 1989. The end result was that the majority of subloans either financed
the commercial stages of of the technology process, or the pre-commercial stages, but with
guarantee from NAFIN up to 90% of the subloan amount, de fac  making NAFIN (and not the
commercial banks) the lender. Finally, the first-tier banks were reluctant to take equity in ITD
companies and the little use of the equity investment component (36% of the original $5 million
amount) was by NAFIN, with the remainder 64% transferred to the credit component. The
merger of FONEI into NAFIN did not facilitate the implementation of the equity component either
as resposiblitity for it was transferred to NAFIN's Equity Investment Department, which has
neither the expertise nor a special interest in financing small, complicated, and risky ITD projects
(paras. 5.5 and 5.6).
Project Sustainability and Future Directions
VI.  The project might have been premature, coming as it did in the early stages of a profound
transformation of Mexico's economy, when conditions were not yet ripe for the private sector
R&D and, therefore, in this light the R&D and equity components of the project were not well
thought. On the other hand, the project can be credited for having been a catalyst in the policy
dialogue on ITD and a factor in the ensuing changes in institutions and operational environment
that are now providing a much more fertile ground for technological innovation in Mexico.
Studies financed under the project enabled the Government to improve its ITD policy and
infrastructure. The metrology studies produced a number of significant findings which cumulated
with the creation of the metrology center, the Mexican Industrial Property Institute, a new
copyright protection law, and new legislation on the promotion and protection of industrial
property. These efforts were subsequently supported by the Bank under the Science and
Technology Infrastructure Project (Ln. 3475-ME). The new project benefitted greatly from the
groundwork carried out under this loan.
VII. With regard to 1TD financing, there seems to be a consensus that the two-tier lending
approach is less than optimal and that a different mechanism more adapted to the high risks/high
returns nature of ITD operations must be developed. Over the last few years, Mexico has seen
the emergence of a number of new initiatives in the financial sector which could be adapted to
support technology innovation. One of the most important of these is the Sociedades de Inversion
de Capitales-Capital Investment Company (SINCAS), which are a hybrid between a growth fund
and a venture capital company. Typically, SINCAS seek out existing companies with growth
potential. Often these are old, established, enterprises whose owners have difficulty adapting to



the more competitive economic environment or are badly managed. SINCAS enter these
companies with equity capital and managerial assistance, often insisting on a management shake-
up. The main aim is to increase the market value of the firms they have invested in and sell their
share at a profit. In May 1991, the Bank proposed to use US$5-10 million under the Industrial
Restructuring Loan (Ln. 3047-ME) to test the SINCA scheme by establishing a venture capital
fund with interested private investors to take equity participants in lTD projects but, the Borrower
did not follow up on this offer. The possibility of adapting the SINCA scheme and use it as a
conduct for ITD financing merits to be studied further.
Lessons Learned
VIII. Inportance of Macro Variables. The project was prepared and appraised in the midst
of Mexico's worst economic crisis, with no hope of fast recovery in sight. The President's Report
stated that "most program targets were missed in 1985. The fiscal deficit rose to 9.8% (of GPD),
inflation increased to 63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10% from their 1984 levels, and
most components of the balance of payments deteriorated. Foreign resewrves declined by nearly
US$3.5 billion". Yet, the difficult economic situation was not given the weight it deserved in the
design of the project. The SAR did not fully analyze the impact of the economic crisis on the
demand for investment in technology development. It only mentioned as a possible risk the
impact of the 1985 earthquake and the 1986 oil price decline "on relevant Government economic
measures" and the uncertainty as to "how quickly Mexico will return to sustained economic
growth and what impact any delay in economic recovery would have on the demand for ITD
finance". As it turned out, while the need for technology modernization exists, the effective
demand was much smaller.  This is evidenced by the slow pace of commitmnent and
disbursement. The project will be closing a year behind schedule. In future ITD lending, the
macro conditions should be thoroughly analysed and taken into account in the design of the project
(para 13.0).
IX.   Project Design.  The problems which arose in connection with the R&D centers
component were already evident as early as appraisal. It was clear that very few companies could
afford to invest in R&D facilities in the mid-1980s and those who could preferred to build their
own instead of buying public R&Ds. There was also strong resistance within CONACYT with
the restructuring and privatization of R&D centers. The component was premature and should
not have been included in the project (para 13.1).
X.   A major objective of the project was to expand ITD financing in Mexico. To this end,
the project proposed to (i) strengthen FONEI through provision of technical assistance and
financial resources Oine of credit); and (ii) introduce a new financing instrument (conditional
loans) and a pilot equity component for which intermediaries will bear the investment risk. While
strengthening of FONEI, the second-tier institution in the project was clearly needed, the Bank
should also have better assessed the capabilility and willingness of the first-tier banks to invest in
ILTD projects. As it tumed out, the first-tier banks were unwilling to do so and the conditional
loan instrument was discontinued, while the equity component was only used by FONEI and then
NAFIN, two public development institutions. This experience also confirmed that conventional



- vi -
loans are not the appropriate lending instrument to finance ITD. This conclusion is supported by
a study made by NAFIN on the subject. Indeed, as discussed in the PCR, 42% of the subloans
made under the project were guaranteed by NAFIN up to 90%, de facto making NAFIN, and not
the first-tier banks, the lender (para 13.2).
XI.   Local Ownership. Local ownership is a sine qua none condition for success and no
component should be included in a project unless it has the full backing of the executing agencies.
This lesson is again proven true in this project with the R&D component which faltered bacause
it had no local support once the CONACYT's Deputy Director who was in favor of restructuring
and privatizing public R&D centers left the institution. Lack of local support was also a major
cause for the problems encountered by the equity component. However, the merger of FONEI
into NAFIN and the transfer of responsibility for the equity component to NAFIN's Equity
Investment Department could not be foreseen as it occured three years after project appraisal (para
13.3).
XII. Importance of Policy Analysis. A lasting contribution of this project is to have helped
focus the Government's attention on policies to encourage IDT industry-wide. Thus, despite the
problems with the R&D centers and the equity/credit components, this project could be considered
a relative success because of its impact on the policy and institutional framework for ITD in
Mexico. This shows the importance in project design of focusing on policy analysis and
improvements (para 13.4).
XIII. Project Data and Reporting. The Project Agreement correctly focused on the need to
maintain integral records of the operations, both in terms of accounting information and of the
components financed. Although every audit report pointed out that this covenant was not being
complied with, nothing was done to correct the situation. In this particular case, part of the
problem stemmed from the lack of staff continuity due to the restructuring reorganization taking
place in both institutions during project implementation. However, keeping good records of
project activities is essential, particularly to carry out an ex-post review of the operation.
Necessary corrective measures should have been taken during project implementation (para 13.5).
XIV. The Borrower's lessons learned record a series of interesting experiences at the technology
project and institutional support levels (part II, pages 6-11).






MEXICO
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. Project Identity
Name:                       Industrial Technology Development Project
Borrower:                   Nacional Financiera S.A.
Guarantor:                  United Mexican States
Loan No.:                   2747-ME
RVP Unit:                   Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:                    Mexico
Sector:                     Industry
II. Background
2.0         At the time of loan approval in July 1986, Mexico's manufacturing industry had
developed into one of the leading sectors of the economy, with a share of GDP of nearly 25%,
and generating one out of eight jobs in the country. For many years, Mexico's industrial strategy
had emphasized import-substitution behind high protective barriers and generous tax breaks and
subsidies. As a result, Mexican industry had remained largely uncompetitive, with a limited
export base. In the wake of the 1982 economic and financial crisis, the domestic market collapsed
and industrial growth came to an abrupt halt. After a drop in industrial production during 1981-
1983, the industrial sector began to recover as output grew 4.8% in 1984. This upswing mainly
stemmed from rising exports encouraged by sharp devaluations of the peso. Given the
Government's commitment to a gradual opening of the economy initiated in 1985, prospects for
further growth were good, but it had to come from exports and efficient import-substitution. The
need for the diversification in exports become more urgent after the collapse of oil prices in 1986.
And to accomplish the necessary restructuring of the industrial sector to enable it to compete with
foreign products, improvements in technology were required.



-2-
Government Policy
2.1         In the past, the Government had sought to strengthen Mexico's Industrial
Technology Development (ITD) through building up public R&D agencies. Other measures had
included fiscal incentives, public purchase programs, regulation of technology imports, and
specialized ITD financing. While at the time of project approval the proportion of Mexican GDP
spent on industrial R&D was comparable to Brazil and Argentina, this was in fact on the low end
of the spectrum compared to newly industrialized countries and developed countries'. Moreover,
the R&D expenditures were concentrated in the public sector, accounting for about 85 % of total
industrial R&D expenditures (compared to 60% in Brazil, 30% in Korea, and less than 20% in
the USA) and were 95 % financed by the Government. This public concentration of R&D resulted
in in-house technology being confined to large parastatal enterprises, firms associated with
multinational corporations, and a small number of mostly large private enterprises. Smaller firms
often lacked the management, technical expertise, manpower and financial means to undertake
technological innovation. Often they also have difficulties in formulating their R&D needs in an
operational and bankable form. Since little effort had been made to develop in-house R&D
capabilities even relatively large firms were forced to import technology. The shortage of in-
house R&D capability were compounded by insufficient orientation of the available public sector
R&D infrastructure towards private sector's needs and by a lack of an effective system of
industrial standards, metrology and quality assurance.2 Industrial public sector R&D centers were
run with little industry participation, often undertaking projects for which industrial demand was
unclear, and they were insufficiently equipped and staffed. In addition to these constraints, there
were a number of regulatory obstacles: excessive Government control over direct foreign
investment and technology transfers which kept out, or made it difficult to acquire, the necessary
foreign technology and attract technology intensive foreign investors. There was also a need to
strengthen protection and enforce property rights, to ensure both local and foreign investors, and
technology suppliers that their intellectual property rights were protected. Satisfactory resolution
of these issues has been a critical factor to promote technology intensive direct foreign investment
and the transfer of technology to Mexican enterprises.
ITD Fnancing
2.2   Several specialized financing for ITD schemes was available at the time of project
appraisal from a number of sources. The main financing source was FONEI, which was a trust
fund established in 1971 and administered by the Banco de Mexico to provide long-term financing
for industrial projects by rediscounting commercial loans. In 1978 FONEI had added a line of
I Total science and technology expenditures rose from 0.13% of GDP in 1982 to an estimated
average of 0.5% per year during 1984-1988, a level which was comparable to Brazil (0.45% in 1982),
but well below Korea (2%) and the highly industrialized countries (Japan 3.4%, USA 3.1 %).
2 'Metrology' refers to making measurements at selected levels of accuracy. It requires measurement
equipment, reference materials, etc., in the industrial firms and in specialized laboratories, whose quality
and accuracy must be traceable to internationally accepted references.



- 3 -
ITD loan rediscounting and guarantees,3 supported by Bank loan 1560-ME. Other sources of
ITD financing included Fondo Nacional de Fomento Industrial (FOMIN), a trust fund established
in 1972 and administered by NAFIN to make equity investments in small and medium-sized firms,
including some technology innovative ventures.  FONEP (Fondo Nacional de Estudio y
Proyectos), another NAFIN trust fund financed engineering and other studies for industrial
development, including some R&D studies. Besides these trust funds, the National Science and
Technology Council's (CONACYT) "shared risk program" provided grants and "conditional"
loans to industrial firms for ITD projects in line with the Government's subsectoral and regional
priorities, mainly utilizing the services of public sector R&D services and local engineering firms.
A component of a 1992 Inter-American Development Bank financed Science and Technology loan
supported this program.
2.3         Despite these efforts, ITD financing in Mexico was small compared to the potential
demand. Total commitment of funds to industrial firms for ITD by specialized agencies in 1984
was only about US$13 million (about 20% of total private industry R&D expenditures) and
FONEI provided about 80% of this financing. In general, the financing available did not
adequately meet industry's requirements, and was fragmented among several agencies. In
addition, there were no institutional sources of private venture capital, and existing regulations
did not encourage private financing of the more risky LTD investments.
2.4         The project was initiated on the expectation that the structural changes occurring
in the Mexican economy since 1982 and especially since 1985 would also give impetus to a
growing demand for R&D and its financing. It was a view shared by the Government, whose
emerging policy at the time emphasized the need to strengthen relationships between public R&D
centers and industry. Accelerated depreciation and fiscal incentives to industrial firms were to
support ITD in priority areas and subsectors. Government funding of R&D through CONACYT
was to be revised to address industrial needs better. A national science and technology program
consistent with this changed emphasis was drawn up and provided a policy and strategic
foundation for the project.
Im. Project Objectives and Description
General
3.0         The ITD project and loan to Mexico were designed to help improve the capability
of industry (especially private firms) to undertake technological innovation needed to face
increasing competition in the context of the Government's economic liberalization program. The
project had three objectives: (a) improving ITD policy instruments through policy analysis; (b)
3 FONEI, together with FOMIN and FONEP was merged with NAFIN in 1989 when the latter
begun its transformation into a second-tier lender.



- 4 -
selective strengthening of technology infrastructure; and (c) expansion and strengthening of
specialized technology financing.
Policy Analysis
3.1         A major objective of the project was to help focus the Government's attention on
policies and related instruments designed to encourage ITD industry-wide. This strategy was
expected to become an integral part of the ongoing industrial policy dialogue between the
Government and the Bank, and to help improve explicit policy instruments. Towards this
objective, Secretaria de Comercio y Fomento Industrial-Ministry of Trade and Industrial
Development (SECOFI), through its General Directorate for Industrial Policy (DGPI), was to
carry out studies on the factors that influence technological innovation in industrial enterprises,
including fiscal incentives, specialized financing and technology assimilation strategies. The
studies were to assess the impact of explicit technology policies on industry, examine
interdependencies among them and with broader policy areas (e.g., general industrial policy,
taxation), compare relevant experience in other countries, examine the effects of alternative
mid-term macroeconomic scenarios on ITD strategy and on the demand for specialized ITD
finai1cing, and draw lessons and make specific recommendations for improving Government
measures supporting, technology development at the enterprise level. The studies, expected to
cost about US$0.8 million, were to be financed entirely by SECOFI.
Selective Strengthening of Infrastructure
3.2         The Project sought to increase the responsiveness of public sector's technology
infrastructure to private industry's through: (a) restructuring of R&D centers and (b) improvement
of metrology services.
Restructuring of R&D Centers
3.3          CONACYT selected four from among eight public sector R&D centers in the
pharmaceutical, agroindustry and biotechnology, metalmechanics, and chemical sectors and
commissioned feasibility studies for the corporate reorganization and financial restructuring of
each center with private sector participation.  The restructuring of the centers and their
reorientation to better serve the needs of their clients was expected to be especially valuable to
medium-sized enterprises which did not have in-house R&D capability and, indirectly, to large
firms whose quality control and technology problem-solving capability would benefit from the
project.
3.4         Under the project, subloans were to be provided to private industrial enterprises for
their equity participation in the selected centers. Such R&D investment subloans were to be made
by FONEI to finance up to 100% of an enterprise's holding in any center. The amount of equity
was to be determined on the basis of the investment plans, which would specify the restructuring
of the center's ownership, the equipment, works and services needed to start up the canters' new
activities, and the institutional arrangements, ensuring major participation of the private investors



as well as of Govemment, CONACYT, and other entities as appropriate. The cost of the four
centers was estimated at about US$16.8 million, of which the Bank was to finance US$8.2
million, including up to US$0.2 million of retroactive financing to September 1, 1985 for the cost
of consultants used to prepare studies and promote the proposed restructuring operations.
Improvement of Metrology Services
3.5         SECOFI's General Directorate of Standards (DGN) was to assess the adequacy of
existing industrial metrology infrastructure and the quality of available services, with the
assistance of a metrology institution and consultants. This study, to be partly financed with loan
funds (up to US$0.4 million), was to recommend cost effective solutions to problems arising from
inadequate service and incomplete infrastructure. Specific metrology programs and institutions
requiring strengthening were also to be identified. Subloan funds were also made available (up
to US$1.6 million) for the execution of such programs.
Technology Development Financing
3.6         One of the primary objectives of the project was to strengthen FONEl's financing
of lTD projects by private industry and to develop R&D capability in industry, research centers
and engineering firms. A line of credit of US$37.1 million was provided to FONEI to help
expand its ITD program. With this support, and related improvements in FONEI's policies and
procedures, it was estimated that FONEI ITD commitments would grow an average 46% per
annum in dollar terms between 1986 and 1988. Retroactive financing of US$4.6 million was
provided for feasibility studies of the R&D centers and for ITD financing.
3.7         FONEI's ITD programs were to be further strengthened through technical assistance
which included: (a) local and overseas training for FONEI staff and first-tier commercial banks;
and (b) support to FONEI's promotional efforts and technical assistance in project evaluation.
US$0.7 million was allocated to this component. A breakdown of total estimated project costs
and financing by component at the time of appraisal compared to actuals are shown on Table 3
of PART III.
IV. Project Design and Organization
General
4.0         The project was identified in September, 1984, and Bank appraisal took place in
August, 1985. Because of the innovative nature of the project, considerable time was required in
its preparation and appraisal (108.9 staff-weeks4, see Table I, PART III). However, the
About the same as for adjustment lending operations in the LAC Region.



- 6 -
remainder of loan processing, through effectiveness, went fairly rapidly. The project was
negotiatiated in April, 1986, approved by the Board in July, 1986 and signed in September, 1986.
It became effective shortly thereafter in October, 1986. Loan funds were planned to be fully
committed by June 30, 1989 and disbursed by June 30, 1992.
4.1         The project had five components: (i) industrial technology development analysis
($0.8 million); (ii) strengthening of technology infrastructure through feasibility studies and
private sector investments in restructured R&D centers ($13.9 million); (iii) strengthening of
metrology services by assessing the needs of the industrial sector and programs for initial
improvement of metrology services ($2.9 million); (iv) specialized finance for technology
development investments of industrial enterprises ($75 million); and (v) institutional strengthening
of FONEI ($0.6 million). The Bank loan of US$48.0 million financed: (a) R&D studies and
investments ($8.2 million); (b) strengthening of metrology services ($2.0 million); (c) technology
development investments of industrial enterprises ($37.1 million); and (d) strengthening of FONEI
($0.7 million). The loan was made available to NAFIN with the guarantee of the United Mexican
States for 15 years, including 3 year's grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. In
order to help capitalize FONEI, the Government was to repay the full principal of the loan, pay
interest and other charges, and bear the foreign exchange risk associated with the loan. Execution
of contractual arrangements between the UMS and NAFIN and FONEI on terms satisfactory to
the Bank, was a condition of effectiveness. The project's major features are described in more
details below.
Policy Analysis and Infrastructure Strengthening
4.2         SECOFI was to carry out the work with its own staff, assisted by consultants, and
guided by an advisory committee to be appointed by Direccion General de Capacitacion y
Productividad-Department of Training and Productivity (DGPI), with representation of industry,
academia and other Government agencies. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
SECOFI would complete the studies no later than September 30, 1987, furnish them to the Bank,
and exchange views with it on the studies' conclusions and recommendations. To facilitate
restructuring of the R&D centers, feasibility studies were completed and investment plans
prepared by CONACYT and the centers with consultants, under terms of reference and timetable
agreed with the Bank. The loan was to finance, through FONEI, 100% of eligible expenditures
in public sector R&D centers. Metrology investments to be financed under the loan, were to
depend on the results of studies to be completed by SECOFI. Final retention by SECOFI of a
foreign metrology institution to help carry out these studies with qualifications and under terms
of reference to be agreed with the Bank was a condition of disbursement for the metrology
studies, as well as for any subsequent investments.
Technology Financing
4.3         During loan processing, several aspects of FONEI's policies and procedures were
identified as areas needing improvement: (i) expansion of financial instruments; (ii) improvements



- 7 -
in project evaluation and supervision procedures; and (iii) articulation of a clear policy and
strategy for the technology program. They were all addressed in the project.
4.4         Also to better support firms undertaking high risk technology projects, FONEI
added a conditional loan instrument. However, following the introduction of the GIRA and the
transfer of FONEI to NAFIN in 1989, conditional loans were eliminated because of a lack of
demand. This was to be used primarily for financing investments required for full scale
production using locally-developed technology, which had higher market risk than similar projects
financed under the traditional equipment lending program. With conditional loans, FONEL and
the investors shared the investment risk. Loan repayment schedules were to be based on the
expected revenues to be generated by the project. If revenues were less than expected, FONEl
could reduce amortization of principal to a percentage of net revenues generated by the project
and reschedule or remit any outstanding balance at loan maturity. To compensate for the higher
risk, a premium was to be added to the established interest rate. Additionally, FONEL was to
initiate a program to provide loans for ITD equity investments. These were to be loans to
commercial banks for them to take equity positions in firms investing in ITD. Operating
guidelines for ITD equity loans were similar to equity loans for other FONEI lending with the
financial intermediary bearing the investment risk. To encourage intermediary participation in
this new quasi-venture capital financing, FONEI discounted 100% of the commercial banks'
participation. Project appraisal was to be in accordance with FONEI's ITD operations manual.
Some deficiencies were identified in project evaluation and supervision procedures during project
appraisal and were corrected in FONEI's revised operating manual. FONEI's staffing of its
Technology Development Unit (TDU) was also found deficient; however, by loan negotiations
a total of 17 new staff positions had been approved by FONEl and the Banco de Mexico.
4.5         To provide focus and direction for the ITD program, FONEI prepared a policy and
strategy statement identifying the program's objective, FONEI's grant and interest rate policy,
lending and staffing targets, promotional strategy and other features discussed during loan
processing. A key element in the statement was FONEI's commitment to adjust interest rates
over the project execution period towards market rates as the program became more established
and to offer by January 1, 1987, potential clients of conventional ITD loans the option of a
non-subsidized loan with a larger direct grant to offset the interest rate differential.
Terms and Conditions of R&D Investment Loans
4.6         To attract firms to this new concept, FONEI was initially to lend up to 100% of
the funds needed by eligible industrial enterprises to invest in restructured R&D centers, at an
interest rate of not less than ACF 5. After about one year, FONEI's maximum participation was
to be reviewed in order to bring it in line with the terms of FONEI's specialized ITD financing.
Maturities of R&D investment loans were up to 13 years, including up to five years' grace.
' The ACF (Average Cost of Funds) index is calculated monthly as a weighted average of
interest rates paid on all funds and deposits by the Mexican banking system.



- 8 -
Terms and Conditions of FONEI's Specialized ITD Financing
4.7          Under its ITD program, FONEI lent primarily to private sector industrial firms,
research centers and engineering firms to finance all elements necessary to support ITD projects,
including purchase of basic information, process engineering, raw materials and supplies,
operational and training expenses for staff involved in the project, R&D equipment and operating
expenses, and pilot scale production using locally developed technology. Its project review and
approval process included review by a technical committee with representation of industry,
academia and other outside agencies. All ITD lending was to be channeled through commercial
banks who were to assist with promotion of FONEI loans.
4.8          FONEI provided a mix of loan and grant funds.  FONEI discounted eligible
subloans made by commercial banks, and provided grants to the enterprises. FONEI financed up
to 80% of total subproject costs and the firm the remaining 20%. FONEI's grant component was
up to 30% (average 10%), depending on project characteristics, such as its innovative merit and
the level of risk. The maximum outstanding technology subloans to any one borrower from the
proceeds of the Bank loan was US$4 million equivalent. Conventional and conditional ITD loans
were to have maturities of up to 13 years including a maximum grace period of 3 years. Equity
subloans were to have maturities of up to 10 years, including a maximum grace period of 5 years.
4.9          FONEI was to charge the commercial banks interest rates equivalent to 88% of the
ACF 6 on conventional technology loans, ACF plus one percentage point on equity loans, and,
on conditional loans 104% of the ACF, plus a risk premium which would vary among loans. The
commercial banks were to retain a spread of 6% of ACF which was expected to be sufficient to
attract commercial banks to technology financing, as FONEI, in addition, was to discount 100%
of technology subloans and guarantee up to 90% of conventional and conditional ITD subloans.
Under the project, financial intermediaries were to charge ultimate beneficiaries variable interest
rates equivalent to 94% of the ACF for conventional technology and 110% of ACF for conditional
subloans plus a risk premium. At the time, GIRA' set only the interest rate on conventional
subsidized subloans at a minimum level equivalent to the ACF less three percentage points. It
6 Given the then high nominal values of the ACF, NAFIN requested during negotiations, and the
Bank eventually agreed, to a change in the interest base. Under the new proposal, interest rates were
to be expressed as a percentage of ACF, as opposed to the earlier mechanism of setting the rates in
terms of the ACF plus or minus a constant. Following the dramatic reduction in the ACF in 1988, the
earlier mechanism was reinstated.
' GIRA - The General Interest Rate Agreement - was introduced in 1984. While short of
ensuring fully market-determined rates, GIRA eliminated direct Government subsidies for most
onlending through financial intermediaries.  The agreement covered Bank financial intermediary
operations totalling US$2.3 billion. The agreement is legally binding as long as there are loans
outstanding under GIRA. New loans made after the signing of the agreement were incorporated in
GIRA.



was agreed during negotiations that GIRA would be amended to reflect the above new nominal
interest rates for technology financing; this amendment was a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.10        Conventional ITD subloans and equity loans in excess US$0.5 million and
conditional loans in excess of US$0.8 million required Bank review and approval prior to Full
documentation for all loans including those below the set limits was to be available for Bank
review during supervision and for audit. The first five technology and equity subloans were to
be submitted for Bank prior approval regardless of size.
4.11        To improve FONEI's financial soundness, the Government decided to further
capitalize FONEL by repaying on its behalf both principal and interest for this and the Industrial
Recovery (Ln. 2746-ME) as well as absorbing the foreign exchange risk. This was to ensure that
FONEI could adequately provide the subsides required to support expansion of the ITD program
from its net income over the project period.  Provisions for losses in FONEI's financial
projections of 2.5 % of new ITD disbursements were considered adequate to protect FONEI's net
income in the event it had to honor its guarantees to financial intermediaries. The return on the
conditional portfolio was expected on average to be equivalent to that on conventional loans, with
high retums on most projects compensating for lower returns on less successful loans; an
additional risk premium ranging from 2-10% was expected to compensate for an expected 30%
failure rate on these loans.  To ensure transparency, it was agreed that separate financial
statements would be prepared for the ITD program, which would reflect the extent of grant and
interest rate subsidy. The Bank agreed with these arrangements which were, however, rendered
null and void when the Govemment introduced a new budgeting system for development banks
and trust funds in 1989.
Key Features of Project's Success/Failure
4.12        In retrospect, the following aspects of project design contributed to the mixed
success of the project: on the positive side, the ITD policy analysis component was instrumental
in bringing about improvements in the policy and institutional framework for technology
innovation in Mexico. On the negative side, the R&D centers and ITD financing components
were badly conceived. In the mid-1980s, very few Mexican companies were willing or able to
invest in their own R&D facilities, least take over a public R&D with all its inherent problems.
Besides, the component did not have strong support within CONACYT, except for the Deputy
Director who, however, left the institution early during project implementation. The underlying
conception and assumptions of the credit line were incorrect. High risk operations such as
technology development should normally not be financed with loans. Although conditional loans
were offered in the project, they were not used and were discontinued following NAFIN's
reorganization in 1989, with the result that the majority of the subloans financed the commercial
stages of the technology development process. R&D or subprojects at pre-commercial stages are
generally covered by guarantee from NAFIN. Finally, the first-tier commercial banks were
reluctant to take equity participation in ITD companies and the equity component was only used
by NAFIN for 36 % of its original amount of US$5 million. The remainder 64% was reallocated
to the credit component.



- 10-
Procurement and Disbursement
4.13        Procurement procedures for goods and services financed with loan funds was to
comply with those customary for industrial development finance operations. Under the project's
infrastructure and metrology component limited international bidding procedures was to be applied
on goods costing in excess of US$500,000, while below that level, and for civil works, local or
international shopping procedures with a minimum of three quotations was required. The Bank
was to have prior review of contracts for goods and services estimated to cost in excess of
US$150,000 equivalent under the agreed investment plan of any research and development center
or metrology program. To facilitate disbursements, a special account of up to US$4.0 million was
set up and administered by NAFIN. The loan was expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1992.
Accounts and Audit
4.14        The accounts of NAFIN and FONEI, the Special Account, and Statements of
Expenditure were to be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of NAFIN and FONEI's fiscal year.
In addition FONEI was to prepare annually separate accounts for its technology development in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  Payments for SECOFI's and CONACYT's project
components, were to be made directly by NAFIN, and the relevant accounts and SOEs were to
be audited by NAFIN's independent auditors.
V. Project Implementation
Economic and Financial Sector Environment
5.0         Following the sharp drop in industrial production in 1982-83, significant
improvements in macroeconomic policies in 1984 led to a modest recovery in industrial output.
However, this recovery was short-lived due to a reflation of the economy in early 1985, which
provided a short-term stimulus, but soon led to balance of payment difficulties. Industrial output
fell by 5% during 1986, aggravated by the collapse of oil export earnings. Problems caused by
the severe recession in the domestic market were compounded by the deterioration in the financial
structure of many industrial enterprises. The crisis was felt more among medium to large-scale
enterprises which had to reduce output considerably. The larger enterprises with their larger
overhead in general had the most difficulties in adjusting to the reduced demand situation.
5.1         On the banking side, the outward looking, private sector led development strategy
of the early 1980's was not immediately adopted for the financial sector. Following the



- 11 -
nationalization of the banking sector in 1982, the number of banks was reduced from about 60
to 20 banks, including eight development banks, through a combination of closing and mergers.
This state owned banking sector was then used increasingly as an instrument to channel credit to
favored sectors at below market rates. Private sector initiative in the capital market was
increasingly found in brokerage firms which became important intermediaries and were not subject
to state control over day-to-day operations.
5.2         Until 1988, the Government intervened heavily in the financial sector to fund public
deficits and to favor certain economic activities. Commercial banks were forced to lend the bulk
of their funds to the Government, public enterprises and other favored sectors at below market
interest rates. To circumvent these restrictions, the commercial banks gradually moved several
types of transactions off their balance sheets which were estimated to represent 48% of the
banking assets in 1987. Lending to the Government increased steadily, while lending to the
private sector declined. Efforts to limit Government transfers and interest rate subsidies through
lending by development banks and trust funds led to the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA)
between the Govemment and the Bank in 1984 under which interest rates to final borrowers were
made variable and were to be raised over time to at least ACF by 1987, except for loans to small
farmers and for housing. By late 1988 the Government began to implement a series of measures,
supported by the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3085-ME) approved in June, 1989.
to liberalize the financial sector. Most forced lending requirements and all interest rate controls
on deposits were removed. Far-reaching legislative and constitutional reforms supported the
financial sector liberalization process. By 1989, several laws governing various types of financial
institutions were amended with a view to increasing competition and reducing market
segmentation. The supervision and regulations of banks and nonbank financial institutions were
strengthened and the restriction on participation of foreign investors in the capital of nonbank
financial institutions were relaxed. The constitution was amended in 1990 to allow full private
ownership of commercial banks and the re-privatization of the nationalized banks. The effects
of the changes were dramatic. Commercial bank assets increased at an average annual rate of
24% in real terms between 1989 and 1991; lending to the private sector climbed from 25% of
total commercial bank assets in 1986 to almost 60% in 1991. These increasingly profitable and
stable operations set the stage for a re-privatization of the commercial banks and a retrenchment
of the development banks and trust funds.
5.3         As part of restructuring the financial sector, after 1988, the Government refocused
the lending of its development finance institutions to viable projects and stopped using them to
transfers resources except for agriculture. Interest rate subsidies were generally reduced. The
largest bank, NAFIN, was transformed into a second-tier lender, while four industry related trust
funds (including FONEI) were merged into it. Total assets of the combined development-related
establishments were reduced by 46% in real terms, dropping from 50% of all assets in the
financial system in 1987 to 27% in 1990. Also by 1990, total staff was cut by 20%. The reforms
diminished considerably the role of directed credit. While in 1987 this form of lending
represented over 60% of total credit flows, this was reduced to 12% by 1990.



- 12 -
Critical Variances in Project Implementation
5.4          Loan closing is expected to take place on June 30, 1993, compared to June 30,
1992, estimated at appraisal. Disbursements would thus be completed in seven years, somewhat
slower than the standard disbursement profile for apex type lending. Several key factors have
been responsible for the slower than expected pace of disbursements (Figure 1) and for the
variances in project implementation from appraisal: (a) uncertain investment climate, particularly
in the early stages of implementation, exacerbated by extremely high nominal and real interest
rates resulting from a deceleration of inflation and the downward stickiness of interest rates; (b)
absence of an explicit technology policy and strategy, during the early years, that would foster
technological investments; (c) under-performance in equity and risk capital financing with only
US$1.79 million of the original US$5.0 million allocated to this component disbursed (paras. 5.5
and 5.6); (d) inability to formulate and implement restructuring plans for public R&D centers
under the supervision of CONACYT. Only one center (new) was financed (para. 5.7); (e) limited
commercial bank participation in riskier financial operations upstream in the innovation cycle and
(f) disruption in FONEI's activities as a result of its merger with NAFIN in 1989. While in
retrospect, given the innovative nature of the operation, the estimated project implementation
period was perhaps too optimistic, the slow start of operations and the failure of the R&D and
equity components had more fundamental structural and institutional causes.
Equity Component                                       ACCWllATED 8UMSEIUN
EST ATED VS. ACUX
5.5          Only a total of six equity      50
investment subprojects were approved for    o 
4~ 40
financing for a total disbursed amount of   2
US$1.79 million (Table 3), compared to       3/
US$5.0   million   allocated  for  this     D              v     
component at appraisal. The reasons for       25
the low  level of utilization  for this      20
component  are  both  structural  and        1s
institutional. On the structural side is the  z lo
traditional nature of Mexican banking       
which is based on short terms loans, often
repeatedly rolled-over, and covered through     FY87  l'  FY89  FY0 FY91  FY92 FY93
guarantees of at least double the amount of                  FCL YEAR
the loan.  Equity participating are rare,          R AMUAEAwk       AcM
particularly in risky sections such as ITD.
Figure 1
5.6          The institutional causes related to FONEI and NAFIN. Operating policies of
FONEI limited equity investments to the commercialization stage of the innovation cycle,
precisely the stage that is most easily financed through normal commercial channels. Within



- 13 -
NAFIN, the department dealing with technological development is essentially the core of the
former FONEI which was merged with NAFIN in 1989. However, this department cannot deal
directly with equity financing to be done by NAFIN. Instead, all equity financing of NAFIN,
including that for technological development, is made by a specialized department, Direccion de
Proyectos de Inversion. This department receives several hundred requests for equity financing
each year, of which only a fraction is considered. It is not possible for this department to pay
close and serious attention to a large number of relatively small and unusually risky investments
in the field of technology development for which it does not have special expertise. This
institutional problem could not have been foreseen during project preparation in 1985 as the
merger of FONEI and NAFIN occured only in 1989. In retrospect, though, it might be argued
that the Bank should have insisted on a more autonomous treatment for this ex-FONEI executed
operation within NAFIN than it apparently was granted since this had fundamental repercussions
in the implementation of the project. This recourse was in principle available to the Bank under
a covenant to the Project Agreement (Section 2,04, see Table 2, PART III), but would have been
in practice difficult to use. Also, under the FSAL reducing and merging trust funds had been a
major recommendation. Thus, rather than interfering with the detail of the merger of trust funds
with NAFIN's operations, the Bank agreed to reallocate the unused funds under the equity
component (US$3.2 million) to the credit line.
R&D Component
5.7         Early during implementation, it became clear that the R&D component was in
serious trouble. The reasons for lack of success of the R&D centers component are somewhat
similar to those for lending for technological development in general and equity financing in
particular discussed above. Few companies in Mexico were willing and/or able to invest in their
own R&D facilities. Those who could tended to be the larger companies with knowledge and
connections to equip and staff such facilities without having to take over a public sector institution
with its existing staff and operating culture. As a matter of fact, the only one R&D center
financed under the project (the CONDUMEX center in Queretaro) is new and private. Because
the problem of privatizing R&D centers is not unique to Mexico, this aspect of implementation
constraints could have been foreseen in project preparation. Either the component should not have
been included or it should have been dealt with explicitly as a privatization problem, drawing
upon experiences in other countries. Another key factor for the failure of this component was the
lack of local support. Restructuring/privatization of public R&D centers was supported by
CONACYT's Deputy Director, but opposed by some senior CONACYT staff. When he left the
institution, the component faltered (para. 5.8). This notwithstanding, the studies on the evaluation
of the R&D centers, the metrology center and the policy work carried out under the project
proved extremely valuable and were used in the design of the Science and Technology
Infrastructure project approved in May 1992.
Project Risks
5.8         Of the potential risks identified and discussed in the appraisal report, the lack of
adequately qualified staff both within FONEI, on the lending side, and SECOFI, on the policy



- 14 -
analysis side, was small. Much more critical was the the controversy within CONACYT staff
regarding the need to restructure the R&D centers which the appraisal report correctly identified.
This controversy should have been given much more weight, and the component reduced in size
or withdrawn from the project pending the clarification of CONACYT's position. In addition,
too much reliance was placed on the then deputy director of CONACYT, who supported the
restructuring of the centers. When he left in 1987 to become Director of the Engineering Faculty
at the University of Mexico, the component faltered even more. Another risk pertaining to both
the R&D and the equity components correctly identified at appraisal, was the uncertainty
regarding the number of firms willing to commit themselves with the restructuring of the centers.
Lastly, the appraisal report correctly assessed the risk of the impact of the 1985 earthquake and
1986 oil price decline on relevant Government economic measures and the uncertainty of how
quickly Mexico would return to sustained economic growth and the negative impact of delays in
economic recovery on the demand for ITD finance. Not much was, however, done to explicitly
incorporated that risk into the project design.
Actions or Decisions Taken or not Taken Which Affected Project Implementation
5.9         As mentioned above, the problems which arose in connection with the
implementation of the R&D centers component had already emerged during appraisal. Subsequent
supervision missions all identified the problem, but little was done to resolve the issue, because
the Borrower requested that more time be allowed for the component to work. The signals were
nevertheless clear. In May 1987, the Secretariat of Planning and Budget (SPP) responsible for
CONACYT decided that three of the centers under the project should remain in the public sector.
The fourth was to be sold to a private firm that was not interested in developing its own facility
at that time. However, the Bank's involvement did shift the focus to the problem of public R&D
centers and to the need to transfer responsibility for technology R&D from the public to the
private sector.
5.10        As mentioned earlier, FONEI was integrated into NAFIN in 1989. Most of the
staff was transferred and there were few layoffs. Nevertheless, this transfer resulted in some loss
of direction and the result was that some components, such as the risk capital component, suffered
in the process (paras. 5.5 and 5.6).
5.11        Supervision missions also pointed out the flaws of financing ITD subprojects with
conventional loans, the reluctance of the first-tier commercial banks to take equity participations
in ITD companies, and the lack of interest of NAFIN's Equity Investment Department (which is
responsible for all equity investments by NAFIN) to specially invest in ITD companies (para.
5.6). With the liberalization of the financial sector and the emergence of venture capital
companies in Mexico, the Bank proposed in May 1991 to use $5-10 million under the Industrial
Restructuring Loan (Ln. 3047-ME) to establish a venture capital fund with interested private
investors to take equity participations in ITD projects. The offer was not followed up by the
Borrower.



- 15 -
VI. Project Results
Expected Project Benefits
6.0         The project was expected to accelerate industrial technological change, thereby
helping private firms compete in domestic and export markets. Through the project, the
availability of funds on terms suited to lITD projects and improved assistance in identification and
formulation of ITD projects, were expected to result in more, larger, or earlier technological
improvements for participating firms.
6.2         Project benefits were expected to continue to accrue after project completion.
Firms were expected to benefit from major expansion of specialized ITD financing and
improvement in financing instruments which was expected to assist with all stages of ITD. A
strengthened FONEI ITD unit was expected to provide Government with a core of specialized
expertise and policy advice on ITD financing and promotion. The pilot restructuring of R&D
centers, besides achieving economies of scale in R&D that participating firms could not
individually attain, was expected to provide an experience without precedent in Mexico and help
guide future broader efforts to develop public sector R&D infrastructures responsive to private
industry needs. The project was also expected to help the Government update and revitalize its
policy and investment decisions regarding industrial metrology infrastructure, as needed to
facilitate industry-wide pursuit of quality. In this context, modest but significant initial steps were
expected to have been taken in at least one or two industrial subsectors to overcome critical
obstacles to the achievement of quality traceable to intemationally recognized references. Finally,
analysis of explicit Govemment ITD policies and their relationships to broader policies which
implicitly influence ITD, were expected to provide guidance for their improvement.
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.3         In spite of setbacks with the R&D and equity components and the initial delays in
implementation, the project achieved some important benefits and, in particular, the objective of
improving industrial technology development policy instruments through studies and policy
analysis. The project was not successful in the strengthening of technological infrastructure and
largely failed in expanding and strengthening specialized technology financing (paras 4.2 to 4.11
and 5.5-5.7). Nevertheless, the project, through its line of credit component, was timely for a
number of enterprises, which would not have been able to proceed with their R&D and perhaps
would have lost important markets without this assistance. The project might have been
premature, coming as it did in the early stages of a profound transformation of Mexico's
economy, when conditions were not yet ripe for the private sector R&D that the project focused
upon. However, the project helped focus the attention on ITD and contributed to the institutional
changes and improvements in the operational environment that are now providing a more fertile
ground for technological innovation in Mexico.



- 16 -
Policy and Metrology Studies
6.4         On the policy side, the government initiated two efforts in formulating industrial
technology policy. The first initiative was undertaken by SECOFI with the objective of helping
focus on policies and related instruments designed to encourage ITD industry-wide; the study
provided valuable information on the state of technological development in Mexico but it did not
deal with either policy changes nor with improvements in technology infrastructure, nor provided
suggestions on possible financing instruments. Bank financing had not been anticipated nor was
provided for this study. The second study was developed by consultants for the Secretariat of
Planning and Budget (SPP) and financed by the project after amendment of the Loan Agreement.
The purpose of this second study was to assist in the formulation of a White Paper on Technology
Policy for consideration by the incoming administration in December 1988. This major study was
completed in October 1988, and was instrumental in providing the basis for the government's new
technology policy and strategy. It was used as a major input for the technology policies supported
under the Bank's Industrial Sector Policy Loan Ln. 3087-ME).
6.5         The metrology studies started in November 1988, after an initial delay of almost
one year and completed in April 1990. The studies produced a number of significant findings,
based largely on surveys conducted by the consulting firms involved, and largely achieved its
objective. The study provided recommendations on the optimum structure for a National
Measurement System (SNM). Subsequently, further studies were done under the loan to
determine the organizational structure of the National Center for Metrology (CENAM) which was
staffed in 1991, and funds under the project (UJS$1.0 million) were provided to assist in the
financing of the construction of the center. The start-up operation of CENAM is being financed
under the Science and Technology Infrastructure Project (Loan 3475-ME). In addition to these
studies, a number of other studies were conducted which are listed in Table 7, PART III). Of
these, of most significance was the study carried out under SECOFI's Directorate of Technology
Development (DGTD) that functions as the patent office to develop the framework for the creation
of a Mexican Industrial Property Institute (IMPI), also being supported under the Science and
Technology Infrastructure project. In June 1991, a new law on the promotion and protection of
industrial property was enacted (Ley de Fomento y Proteccion de la Propiedad Industrial),
followed in August of the same year by a new copyright protection law. The law on protection
of industrial property is particularly far reaching covering such aspects as inventions, patents,
models, industrial designs, trade secrets, trademarks, etc. This law offers any investor or
entrepreneur in Mexico a legal regime for the protection of intellectual property that is comparable
to what exists in industrialized countries s. Not only will this legislation facilitate transfer of
technology from abroad 9, it will also stimulate local R&D efforts.
It was also required in the context of the NAFTA.
9 In parallel with the enactment of the new law, the Government withdrew from its erstwhile
insistence on official sanction for all technology purchases abroad, in favor of mere registration of
such acquisitions.



- 17 -
Specialized 1TD Financing
6.6         The characteristics of the subprojects financed under the line of credit component
are shown on Tables 4 and 5. A total of 239 subprojects (excluding technical assistance, equity
investments and the R&D center subprojects) were financed with an aggregate subproject cost of
about US$66.0 million, of which IBRD funding amounted to about US$43.0 million, or about
65% of total project costs; the balance was financed by enterprises, financial intermediaries, and
NAFIN (Table 4). Many enterprises received multiple subloans, therefore the total number of
enterprises financed was only 165 considerably less than the number of subloans (Table 5). Of
the 239 subprojects financed, 24 were relatively large averaging about US$1.5 million ("A"
subprojects, involving funding above the "free limit" of US$0.5 million for conventional loans
and US$0.8 million for conditional loans, thus requiring Bank approval).'I
6.7         In terms of sectoral distribution, 44% and 23% of the subprojects by number were
in the metal products and chemical products, respectively (Figure 2). However, given that a few
large subloans were for the auto parts industry, when measured in terms of total disbursed
amounts, the metal products (including auto parts) and chemical sectors represented 57% and
19% of total disbursements under the credit component, respectively. Of the remaining sectors,
food beverage and tobacco and basic metals represented about 7% and 11 % of total disbursement,
respectively, and the remaining sectors (non-metallic minerals, textiles and leather, wood and
paper) each represented less than 4% of the total (Figure 3). In terms of enterprise size " , the
large, medium and small enterprises represented 30%, 24% and 46%, respectively, of the total
number of subprojects financed (Figure 4). In terms of amounts disbursed, large enterprises
represented about 55% of the total, with the medium and small ones each absorbing only 17% and
28% of the total funds, respectively (Figure 5).
6.8         The majority of the subprojects were concentrated in Nuevo Leon (22%), Mexico
City (19%) and the Federal District (11%). The remainder was more or less equally distributed
among the remaining states (Figure 8). In terms of amount, Nuevo Leon and Mexico City
absorbed 27 % and 21% of the funds. In the Federal District, Coahuila and Queretaro smaller
subprojects were financed which absorbed between 7% and 12% each (Figure 9).
6.9         Thus, it seems that the smaller enterprises, particularly those in the less
industrialized areas, benefited less than the larger enterprises from the project. But this is
precisely the group which is in greatest need of support in technology developmentfinancing. The
1' The Bank on July, 1991, agreed to wave for NAFIN the requirement to submit detailed
analysis of subprojects for Bank review and approval prior to authorizing disbursements. Following
NAFIN's restructuring in 1989 conditional loans were discontinued.
" Defined as follows: Small- under 100 employees and with net sales of less than 1,115 times
the minimum salary; Medium- with less than 250 employees and net sales of less than 2010 times the
minimum salary; Large- with over 250 employees and sales in excess of 2010 times minimum salary.



- 18 -
larger enterprises, with sufficient cash flow and access to foreign technology appeared to receive
the greatest support, particularly in Monterey and Mexico City, and to a lesser degree in Coahuila
and Queretaro.
6.10         Nearly half of the subprojects financed pre-commercial stages of the technology
development process and about 40% of them (generally small enterprises) were covered by
NAFIN's guarantee of up to 90% of the subloans. All of the pre-commercial subprojects
benefitted from preferential interest rates (CETES-3 % to CETES-5 %). The interest rate subsidy
was considered to be justified by the high risk nature of the operations and was thought necessary
to encourage borrowing from ITD owners."2 Only about one-fourth of the subloans had interest
rates considered "normal" by NAFIN's standards (CETES+5%). Of the pre-commercial stage
subprojects, about one-half continued to the marketing stage, and many more may do so in the
future. Based on the supervision reports of NAFIN and financial intermediaries, over one-half
of the subprojects financed can be considered successful, either fully or partially meeting their
target objectives (Table 4), which is good given the risky nature of the subprojects financed.
None of these subprojects was on arrears with the financial intermediary. Only a handful of
subprojects (about 11 %) can be considered total failures 13 (Table 4). A number of subprojects
were to very large firms with extensive international connections. Several of the firms visited
during 1992 were operating on a line of credit basis with NAFIN providing the needed working
capital connected with their R&D operations.
6.11         Most commercial banks participated as first-tier institutions (Table 4), but over
three-quarters of the financing was channelled through five commercial banks: Banamex, Banca
Serfin, Banco Internacional, Bancomer, and Multibanco Comermex (Figure 7). No detailed data
on arrears, collections, or write-offs was available. However, based on field visits, and given the
large size and financial stability of the majority of the enterprises financed, it is safe to assume
that, at the level of the financial intermediaries, the portfolio is quite sound. NAFIN provided
guarantees for about 114 subloans financed under the project, or about 47% of the total number
and about 42% of the total IBRD funds disbursed. NAFIN's main criteria for granting guarantee
is the riskiness of the operation. The size of the borrowing company is also taken into account.
Thus, most pre-commercial stage ITD projects was covered by guarantees. Also, over one-half
of the guarantees were for small enterprises; only about 16% were to large enterprises. The
percentages of the intermediaries' subloans covered by NAFIN's guarantees varied between 50%
and 90% Recently, as a matter of institutional policy NAFIN reduced the coverage of new
guarantees. Under the new arrangements, intermediaries lending to small enterprises can be
guaranteed up to 80% of the subloan amount; for large enterprises the maximum coverage is
12 As discussed elsewhere in the report, rather than subsidizing the interest rate, it would have
been better to develop adequate equity financing channels for this type of high risks/high returns
investments.
13 The causes for the failures ranged between technical, marketing, planning to purely financial.
In one case was fraud found to be the cause of failure.



- 19 -
SUBPROJECT CHARACTERISTICS  ,    SUBPROJECT CHARACTERISTICS
% OF TCTAL NUMBER BY SECTOR                                           % OF TOTAL DISBURSEMENT BY SECTOR
rFOOD. BoSV. TOBAC. (.1%)
NON.METAWUC MINEqAAIJ(4.49%[-      FOD BE.T 4C 10.31%)                     NON-NIETALLIC MINERALS (2A7%-1    r'rTEXTLE & LI.ATHBR (0Ut%)
AUTO. INDUSTRY CT 92%)'                STLBES A LFTE                   AUT.1OUT7(1.?%h                      i -WOOO &PAPER(O.11%)
IOTHERt (2..I%):rn00 WOOOPAPER I                      .0I%)              AUTO-CHEN.L1BTRYRII.II.LI%
CI=M. REF. RUB. (23.32%)1      OThER
-BASC METALS j1&0z%
METAL PRODUCTS (4A.Z9%)
BASIC METALS 4.48%)
MEIAL PRODUCTS (37.90%)-
FIGUWRE  2                                                                      FIGU7RE  3
CHARACTERISTICS OF ENTERPRISES | I CHARACTERISTICS OF ENTERPRISES
% OF TOTAL NUMBER BY SIZE                                         % % OF TOTAL AMOUNT DISBURSED BY SIZE
LARGE (29.5%)%                                                                                                                MLSMALL (d57O/SL (27.8%)
LARGE (5-5.0%)
MEDIUM  (17.3%)
MEDIUM  (23.8%)-'
FIGUR-s  4                                                                        FIGURE  5
1! Defined as follows Small - under 100 employees and with net sales of less than 1,115 times the minimum salary;
Medium - with less than 250 employees and net sales of less than 1010 times the minimum salary; Larec -with over 250
employees and sales in excess of 2010 times minimum salary.



- 20 -
CHARACTERISTICS OF SUBPROJECTS                                         SUBPROJECT CHARACTERISTICS
% BY DEVELOPMENT ZONE                                      % OF TOTAL BY FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY
REST OF COUNTRY IIllr=                                                   OTHER
REST OF COUNTRY     -                    |  ,  I          MULTIBANCO COMERMEX
+                       I  I       MULTIBANCO MERCANTIL DE MEX.
LIMITED OR NO GROWTH ZONE (111K?                                                   COMERMEX
BANCRESER
CONTROLLED GROWrH ZONE (III & IIIA)                                                   BANCOMER
BANCO MEXJCANO SOMEX
BANCO MERCANTIL DEL NORTE
STATE PRIORITY ZONE (II) I                                        BANCO INTERNACIONAL
i             -                        i  |                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANCO ATLANTlIC 
PRIORITY ZONE FOR IND. DEVELOP.- I )                                               B EANCA SERFIN
BANAME-X
05   101520263035                                               0   5   10 25 20  25 30
!  PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL A                                           PERCENT OF TOTAL
1111BYAMOUNT    BYNUMBER |                           L                                      BY AMOUNT * BY NUMBER 
FIrURE 6                                                             FIGURE  7
SUBPROJECT CHARACTERISTICS                                        SUBPROJECT CHARACTERISTICS
% OF TOTAL DISBURSED BY LOCATION                                    % OF TOTAL NUMBER BY LOCATION
OTHER                                                              OTHER
SONORA                                                            SONORA   _
SAN LUIS POTOSI *                                                SAN LUIS POTOSI  _
QUERETARO                                                         QUERETARO
PUELA -                                                           PUEBLA
NUEVO LEON                                                        NUEVO LEON
MORELOS U                                                         MORELOS
MEXICO CITY                                                       MEXICO CITY
JALISCO                                                           JALISCO
GUANAJUATO                                             [          GUANAJUATO
DISTRtTO FEDEAL                                               I DISTRITO FEDERAL           _
COAHUtL                                                           COAHUILA
CNII4UAI4UA    _________________________!___________              CHIHUAHUA    ____CHHUAHU
0      5     10    15    20    25    30                             0       5      10       15      20      25
PERCENT OF TOTAL                                                   PERCENT OF TOTAL
FIGURE 8                                                          FIGURE  9



- 21 -
lower. NAFIN charges the intermediaries a premium over the normal relending rate 14
depending on the coverage received. An indication of the quality of the portfolio is the amount
of guarantees paid by NAFIN to the financial intermediaries (Table 6). These amounted to about
US$7.3 million equivalent over the project period (about 10% of the total amount lent to
enterprises by intermediaries under the project).
6.12        That NAFIN had to entice the first-tier commercial banks with large guarantees,
thereby basically assuming the role of a first-tier bank, is not surprising. Mexican banks are
generally conservative, preferring short-term, secured lending to long-term investments. Their
lending power was also severely limited during the economic crisis of the 1980s. Finally,
following the liberalization of the financial sector, they were put up for reprivatization, not an
ideal situation for getting into risky investments in new sectors. As a corollary of this general
situation, staff of commercial banks is ill prepared to evaluate and follow-up term loans, let alone
equity participating in ILTD projects. Indicative for this lack of knowledge is the fact that 75%
of all subloans were generated by only five commercial banks, all of which had staff trained under
the project to handle technology related loans. Nafin also played a major role in guiding the first-
tier banks in the development, appraisal and supervision of ITD operations. Ex-FOMIN staff,
who at NAFIN are responsible for the ITD program, maintain very close relationships with the
first-tier banks and their ITD clients, providing assistance and advice in all stages of the project
cycle. This is reflected by the good quality of the subprojects financed and has been a main factor
behind the relative success of the line of credit. However, the fact remains that lending for ITD
and particularly equity participation for which the banks would have to carry the risk, remains
foreign to Mexican banking. As will be argued later (para. 7.5), it may well be necessary to
develop new financial instruments and intermediaries in order to make financing for innovation
feasible in Mexico.
Technical Assistance
6.13        A total of 35 technical assistance subprojects were financed. These included a
number of key studies (Table 7), which led to significant policy and institutional developments
(para. 6.2). The original allocation for technical assistance of US$0.7 million was increased to
US$1.8 million. Of that amount, 91% were for studies and the balance for training (7%) and
promotion (2 %). About 55% of the funds committed to studies was for the metrology component,
and the technology development studies mentioned in para. 6.3. The studies for the R&D Centers
were carried out by independent consultants for CONACYT early in the implementation period
and represented less than 7% of total technical assistance funds. NAFIN's efforts in project
promotion, although late in the implementation phase, are commendable and greatly assisted in
the general understanding of the objectives and procedures of its Technology Development
Program. A number of training activities were carried out, but more could have been done under
the project in this area (para. 6.11), particularly at the level of the financial intermediaries and
14 The premium ranges between 0.50% and 3.50% for guarantees ranging between 20% and 80%
of the subloan granted by the intermediary.



- 22 -
NAFIN's regional staff, which will now be carrying a greater burden of the supervision
responsibility, together with the first-tier banks. While it is difficult to assess the benefits derived
from the technical assistance component, since no monitoring mechanisms were developed to
follow and evaluate the activities, and Bank supervision generally focussed of the large studies
financed under the program, it can be concluded that this component was largely successful.
VII. Project Sustainability and Future Directions
7.0         It can be argued that the project was premature, coming as it did in the early stages
of a profound transformation of Mexico's economy, when conditions were not yet ripe for the
private sector R&D that the project focused upon. On the other hand, the project can be credited
for having been a catalyst in the dialogue and a factor in the ensuing changes in institutions and
operational environment that are now providing a much more fertile ground for technological
innovation in Mexico. Exemplifying these changes are laying the foundation for new legislation
on the protection of intellectual property, a restructured CONACYT, and emerging joint financing
between CONACYT and NAFIN that covers the full cycle of technological innovation from
laboratory to commercial production.
7.1         In June of 1991, a new law on the promotion and protection of industrial property
was enacted followed in August of the same year by a new copyright protection law (para. 6.4).
Not only will this legislation facilitate transfer of technology from abroad, but it will also
stimulate local R&D efforts.
7.2         CONACYT, although still the coordinator of public support for technology, science
education and technological development, has now a more clearly defined role and has been
reduced substantially in physical size. Created in 1970 to channel public support for science and
technology, CONACYT had acquired over time a number of bureaucratic and administrative
deficiencies that had gradually led to serious inefficiencies in channeling the resources entrusted
to it. Priority areas for investigations and training of human resources were arbitrarily defined,
using subjective and discretionary criteria. The Science and Technology Infrastructure Project
supported these improvements. The new CONACYT operates under three basic rules:
-  All goods and services to be acquired with financial support from CONACYT
are put out to tender;
-  Seven scientific committees have been established, each one to judge the merits
of any proposal for support in its particular area of expertise. The committees
include members of recognized standing in their professions, both from inside
Mexico and from abroad; and
-  The quality of scientific research supported by CONACYT is evaluated
periodically; so is the economic viability of proposals for technological
modernization.



- 23 -
7.3         With regard to ITD financing, these seems to be a consensus that the two-tier
lending approach has serious shortcomings and that a different mechanism more adapted to the
high risks/high returns nature of ITD operatives should be established. NAFIN's Gerencia de
Desarrollo Tecnologico recently conducted an analysis of the issue based on a review of several
studies on the subject 15. The conclusion reached is that after 14 years of trying to involve
commercial banks in technology development financing, little real progress has been made. The
two-tier lending approach through commercial banks for technology development is clearly not
sustainable and new mechanisms must evolve primarily throughfirst-tier windows, utilizing venture
capital-type instruments.
Possible New Mechanisms for Financial Assistance
7.4         Over the last few years, Mexico has seen the emergence of a number of new
financing and support initiatives for technological innovation. The two most important of these
are the SINCAS (Sociedades de Inversion de Capitales) and "Incubadores de Empresas
Tecnologicas". SINCAS are a hybrid between a growth fund and a venture capital firm.
Typically, SINCAS seek out existing companies with growth, potential. Often these are old,
established, enterprises whose owners have difficulty adjusting to the new, more competitive,
economie environment or are poorly managed. SINCAS enter these companies with equity capital
and technical and managerial assistance, often insisting on a management shake-up. The main aim
of the SINCAS is to increase the market value of the firms they have invested in and sell their
share at a profit. Because of the modest size of Mexico's capital market, few of these
disinvestments are made through public issues. The shares of most SINCAS are usually sold to
fellow investors in the same company. SINCAS have seen a rapid, but somewhat checkered,
growth in the past few years. NAFIN has been active in the creation of these investment societies
and had, by the end of 1991, participations in 19, with total assets of US$94 mullion. There are
regional SINCAS to raise and apply local funds, national ones, SINCAS to promote women led
businesses, SINCAS specialized in environment related investments etc. However, it appears that
SINCAS, so far, can raise much more capital than they can invest in their professed prime
activity. By mid 1991, the combined SINCAS had total assets of about US$182 million, of which
less than 50% was invested in enterprises. The rest was held in the form of treasury bonds.
7.5          SINCAS could be a source of equity financing for technological development, much
like venture capital firms are in the U.S. However, given the situation described above, with
SINCAS not being pure venture capital funds but rather aggressive growth funds, the opportunity
for financing innovation, though present, is uncertain. In addition, SINCAS usually take majority
participation (actually take over the management of the company) and this would not be acceptable
'5 SPP's 1988 study "Instrumentos de Financiamiento al Desarrollo Tecnologico"; LANFI's 1987
study on the efficiency of financing instruments for technology development; McKinsey's 1988 study
"Evaluacion de las Necesidades de Financiamiento de Sectores Dinamicos"; CIT's 1988 study on the
impact of the program, based on extensive interviews with beneficiaries. Gestec's 1991 study on
"Politicas de Intermediacion Financiera para el Programa de Desarrollo Technologico".



- 24 -
to owners of ITD projects. However, the potential for the SINCAS to be a conduct for 1TD
financing exists and merits to be studied further.
7.6         Another recent development in Mexico, still more experimental than the SINCAS,
is the "incubator company' for technological up-starts. The PCR mission visited the first, and
so far only, operational incubadora, Incubadora de Empresas con Base Tecnologica (IEBT), in
Ensenada, Baja California. The incubadora is essentially a full service organization for new, high
technology, companies. It provides, for a fee, from physical space to training in accountancy and
assistance with obtaining development financing. The latter appears to be one of the most
appreciated functions of the "incubadora". Thus, the "incubadora" plays a useful, albeit limited,
technical assistance role with a potential for expansion.
VIII. Bank Performance
8.0         Bank supervision missions were frequent during the early period (about two per
year through 1987), and well balanced in terms of staff composition. Following the 1987
reorganization, project' supervision responsibility changed and focussed largely on the policy
aspects, giving somewhat less attention to the remaining components, particularly to the line of
credit component and to the reporting and accounting arrangements specified in the Project
Agreement. Consequently, operational matters connected with these areas were not thoroughly
reviewed and the separation of the project accounts from other accounts to facilitate control and
supervision were never carried out by either FONEI nor NAFIN (Table 2). By December 31,
1989, total disbursements amounted to only US$15.8 million, including the special account,
compared to US$37.2 million estimated at appraisal, or about 58% below the target. Except for
the technical assistance component, all the remaining components showed little commitment
activity. The Bank suggested to the Borrower cancellation of some of the inactive components
or reallocation to other or new categories. Nevertheless, the issue was not pursued actively and
both the equity and R&D components remained in the project, at the insistence of the Borrower.
Also the Bank did not press the Borrower for more satisfactory reporting of the technology loan
portfolio.
WX. Borrower's Perfonrance
9.0         Considering the adverse economic situation experienced by Mexico during the early
period of project implementation, including serious economic contraction, monetary and credit
restriction, high inflation, reorganization and frequent changes of staff in all executing agencies,
the Borrower performed as well as could be expected under the circumstances. A possible
criticism of NAFIN's performance could be that the integration of FONEI within NAFIN took
place very rapidly, with many of the staff still located in their former premises and with
inadequate attention paid to maintaining FONEI's modus operandi, records and procedures. At



- 25 -
present, the department dealing with technology development is essentially the former FONEI
technology unit, but because of the approach used in its integration, it still does not appear to have
been fully integrated in the institution. In the case of the equity component, a specialized
department took over the component. Given that this department receives several hundreds of
requests for equity investment each year, it is not possible for it to focus to a number of relatively
small and unusually risky investments in a field technology development for which it does not
have expertise. Thus, the transfer of FONEI, while overall positive from an efficiency point of
view, had fundamental repercussions in the implementation of the project. It can thus be argued
that the Borrower should have planned more carefully the implemention of this integration, and
that the Bank should have been more insistent on a more autonomous position for the ex-FONEI
operation within NAFIN.
9.1         In spite of these differencies NAFIN staff working on the ITD program must be
commended for an outstanding effort, particularly during the latter years of implementation in
promoting the program. They were instrumental in increasing the awareness of the industry and
commercial banks in the area of technology development, especially through training programs
and expositions, as well as financial incentives to promote greater participation of commercial
banks. Unfortunately, in spite of these efforts, the commercial banks with few exceptions were
not responsive in promoting these credits, for the reasons previously discussed.
X. Project Relationships
10.0        By and large, the relationships between the Bank and the Borrower were candid.
However, a major restructuring of the Bank in 1987 and of NAFIN in 1989, did not lead to
continuity in staff within either institution and the longer-lasting relationships which are normally
forged during joint monitoring of project implementation did not materialize fully. NAFIN's
relationships with the financial intermediaries, the beneficiary enterprises, and the various
Government agencies implementing the TA component were good. The Board set up at FONEI
to approve ITD subloans and help implement the project also continued to function when FONEI
was merged with NAFIN. Thus, the lack of coordination between FONEI, NAFIN and the
various Government agencies, which existed early during implementation and contributed to the
difficulties of the R&D component, was satisfactorily resolved.
XI. Consulting Services
11.0        The TA component involved the contracting of numerous contractors/consultants
(Table 7). While performance varied between different contractors/consultants, the overall results
obtained were good. The consultants also performed generally well. Most of the studies were
carried out without undue delays, except for the metrology study. This was due to a number of
factors, including ill-defined scope and objectives and periodic budgeting delays. These factors



- 26 -
were beyond the consultant's control and the end result of the study was good and with positive
impact (paras. 6.3 and 6.4).
XII. Project Documentation and Data
12.0        Project documentation and data includes the legal documents, the staff appraisal
report (SAR), mission's back-to office and supervision reports, progress reports provided by the
Borrower, and audit reports.
12.1        The Loan and Project Agreements were appropriate for the project. The staff
appraisal report provided a useful framework for both the Bank and the Borrower during
implementation. Supervision reports gave a fair idea of the project evolution, and the most of the
key issues addressed during implementation. However, NAFIN did not comply with the Project
Agreement in maintaining separate accounts (Table 4) and this made the ex-post review of the
accounting information on the project and specific subproject information difficult to follow since
it was mixed with other Technology Financing operations. The supervision reports prepared by
both NAFIN and the financial intermediaries did not clearly differentiate Bank-financed
subprojects from others. This was particularly confusing in some cases where there were many
operations financed for one enterprise 16.  FONEI in the early stages of implementation kept
detailed records of the performance of the subprojects financed, including details of individual
components.  However, after its merger into NAFIN, detailed records were only kept
sporadically, depending on the willingness of the NAFIN official involved to continue this
practice. Consequently, valuable data on the enterprises was not collected following the merger.
In addition, some of the past data collected by FONEI was lost during the merger.
XM. Lessons Learned
Inportance of Macro Variables
13.0        The project was prepared and appraised in the midst of Mexico's worst economic
crisis, with no hope of fast recovery in sight. The President's Report stated that "most program
targets were missed in 1985. The fiscal deficit rose to 9.8% (of GPD), inflation increased to
63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10% from their 1984 levels, and most components of
the balance of payments deteriorated. Foreign reserves declined by nearly US$3.5 billion". Yet,
the difficult economic situation was not given the weight it deserves in the design of the project.
The SAR did not fully analyze the impact of the economic crisis on the demand for investment
in technology development. It only mentioned as a possible risk the impact of the 1985
16 For example in the case of several enterprises (HYLSA, INDUSTRIAS RESISTOL, PYOSA)
there were dozens of subprojects approved for each, some of which were financed under the projects
others from other sources.



- 27 -
earthquake and the 1986 oil price decline "on relevant Government economic measures" and the
uncertainty as to "how quickly Mexico will return to sustained economic growth and what impact
any delay in economic recovery would have on the demand for ITD finance". As it turned out,
while the need for technology modernization exists, the effective demand was much smaller. This
is evidenced by the slow pace of commitment and disbursement. The project will be closing more
than a year behind schedule. In future ITD lending, the macro conditions should be thoroughly
analysed and taken into account in the design of the project.
Project Design
13.1        The problems which arose in connection with the R&D centers component were
already evident as early as appraisal. It was clear that very few companies could afford to invest
in their own R&D facility in Mexico in the mid-1980s and those who could preferred to build
their own instead of buying public R&Ds. There was also strong resistance within CONACYT
with the restructuring and privatization of R&D centers. The component was premature and
should not have been included in the project.
13.2        A major objective of the project was to expand ITD financing in Mexico. To this
end, the project proposed to (i) strengthen FONEI through provision of technical assistance and
financial resources (line of credit); and (ii) introduce a new financing instrument (conditional
loans) and a pilot equity component for which intermediaries will bear the investment risk. While
strengthening of FONEI, the second-tier institution in the project was clearly needed, the Bank
should also have better assess the capablility and willingness of the first-tier banks to invest in
ITD projects. As it turned out, the first-tier banks were unwilling to do so and the conditional
loan instrument was discontinued, while the equity component was only used by FONEI and then
NAFIN, two public development institutions. This experience also confirmed that conventional
loans usually are not the appropriate lending instrument to finance lTD. This conclusion is
supported by a study made by NAFIN on the subject. Indeed, as discussed in the PCR, 42% of
the subloans made under the project were guaranteed by NAFIN up to 90%, de fact making
NAFIN, and not the first-tier banks, the lender.
Local Ownership
13.3        Local ownership is a sine qua none condition for success and no component should
be included in a project unless it has the full backing of the executing agencies. This lesson is
again proven true in this project with the R&D component which faltered because it had no local
support once the CONACYT's Deputy Director who was in favor of restructuring and privatizing
public R&D centers left the institution. Lack of local support was also a major cause for the
problems encountered by the equity component. However, the merger of FONEI into NAFIN
and the transfer of responsibility for the equity component to NAFIN's Equity Investment
Department could not be foreseen, as it ocurred in 1989, three years after project approval.



- 28 -
Importance of Policy Analysis
13.4        A lasting contribution of this project is to have helped focus the Government's
attention on policies to encourage IDT industry-wide. Thus, despite the problems with the R&D
centers and the equity/credit components, this project could be considered a relative success
because of its impact on the policy and institutional framework for LTD in Mexico. This project
suffered because it coincided with major restructuring upheavals taling place in both the Bank and
NAFIN. This shows the importance in project design to emphasize policy analysis and
improvements.
Project Data and Reporting
13.5        The Project Agreement correctly focused on the need to maintain integral records
of the operations, both in terms of accounting information and of the components being financed.
Although every audit report pointed out that this covenant was not being complied with, nothing
was done to correct the situation. In this particular case, part of the problem could have stemmed
from the lack of continuity in staff of both institutions resulting from their restructuring.
However, keeping good records of project activities is essential, particularly to carry out an ex-
post review of the operation. Necessary corrective measures must have been taken during project
implementation.



- 29 -
MEXICO
Nacional Flnanciera, S.N.C.
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(Loan 2747-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.           BACKGROUND
II.          PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
HI.          PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
IV.          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
V.           PROJECT RESULTS
VI.          LESSONS LEARNED



- 30 -
BACKGROUND
From 1986 through 1989, the implementing agency for the Technology Development
Program was the Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI), a trust fund administered by Banco
de Mexico.
In November 1989, as part of the restructuring of Mexico's financial system, FONEI was
merged into Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN), with the aim of streamlining
structures in order to expand, simplify, and strengthen services in support of economic
activity in Mexico. The program activities continued without interruption during the
merger process.
As NAFIN worked to consolidate its new structure, it translated ongoing in-house changes
into redoubled efforts to meet the needs of the country's private and social sectors,
stepping up the services offered through its regional offices and strengthening their
organization.
After FONEI had become part of NAFIN and the above-mentioned structural changes in
NAFIN had been instituted, responsibility for implementation of the Technology
Development Program funded in part by World Bank loan 2747-ME was given to the
office of NAFIN's Deputy Manager for Financing.
IT. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPIION
The primary purpose of the Technology Development Program is to provide financing for
industrial technology projects at preferred rates of interest, with long repayment terms, and
with supplementary guarantees to the financial intermediaries involved.
The object of this support is to strengthen the borrowing firms, which would be required
to submit carefully structured business plans, drawn up with financial intermediaries, and
would entail outlays by the firms for assessments, forecasts, technology assimilation and
transfer, development of new technology and systems, and the launching of new
technology-based products and services on the market.
Any activity that would help a company to compete more effectively and raise the added
value of its products or services is eligible for assistance under the program.
In cases in which applicants request equity investment or high-risk venture capital, projects
and investment requirements are structured, and the companies are given financial advice
along with the credit they seek.
The Technology Development Program has helped major Mexican companies and
promising small industrial concerns alike.  However, because the country's larger
enterprises are deemed to have the money for this type of investment, or have access to



- 31 -
other sources of financing, NAFIN at this writing is concentrating all of its efforts on
supporting microenterprises and small and medium-sized businesses.
In 1992, with a view to streamlining discount operations and seeing more funds channeled
through intermediary financial institutions, NAFIN began to decentralize operations for
the program, and to that end organized a training course for its own regional offices and
for a number of financial intermediaries.
m.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN
The Department for Monitoring and Coordination of Projects with External Financing,
which is part of the Project Evaluation and Financing Directorate in the Office of the
Deputy Manager for Financing, is responsible for administering and monitoring loans
made with the proceeds of the World Bank loan for the Industrial Technology
Development Program.
The Office of the Manager for Coordination of Projects with External Financing within
that department assembles, organizes, classifies, and assesses information on subprojects
for which financing is sought.
The operating procedures followed to identify, appraise, and monitor subprojects require
close links between NAFIN's nine regional offices and the offices of the Managers for
Technology Development and for Coordination of Projects with External Financing.
There also are permanent working ties with the Operations Department, which handles
discount operations with financial intermediaries and arrangements for disbursements of
the loan, with the recording of activity in the special account set up in Banco de M6xico,
to provide timely information on repayments, prepayments, disbursements, and
cancellations of subprojects receiving support under the program.
The offices listed above are in continual contact as well with the International
Organizations Department, which acts as financial agent and sole liaison with the World
Bank for commitment, authorization, disbursement, and other special arrangements with
that organization.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
FONEI devised the Technology Development Program in 1978, on the premise that the
country's industry could not be brought into the modern era merely by creating new



- 32 -
companies, but that the processes being used in established enterprises, and their products,
would need to be modernized as well.
At the outset, several innovative features were offered: cash grants for worthy projects;
loan guarantees; coverage of risk for entrepreneurs who employed Mexican technology;
forgiveness of the debt if a project was not successful; low interest rates; tie-ins with other
FONEI programs and facilities; and conditional loans, whereby the company repaid its
debt on the basis of a percentage of its sales revenues, if any.
This facility immediately became the premier source of financing in the country, setting
the stage for technology development.
In 1984, while FONEI's other financing operations fell below expectations, the Program
of Support for Technology Development grew, in response to the need to bolster
companies' own initiatives and resources if they, and with them the country's economy,
were to expand. The factors that made such assistance necessary were the sluggish pace
of industrial investment, excess liquidity in the banking system, which preferred to lend
directly rather than discounting with the federal government's trust funds, and its relatively
high nominal interest rates.
In light of the positive results achieved with this program, the World Bank negotiated a
US$48 million loan with Mexico (loan 2747-ME).
The following are some of the salient terms and conditions set out in the operating
guidelines worked out with the World Bank:
Purse of Investments
Adaptation, research and development of means and procedures for the efficient fabrication
of industrial products and delivery of technical services, and marketing of products and
services.  Design, fabrication, and testing of new goods and production processes,
including prototypes, trial run production, and pilot plants.
Items Eligible for Financing
Purchase of basic data, material, equipment, services.
Equity capital contributions by individuals or bodies corporate to technology enterprises.
Credi



- 33 -
FONEI discounted the loans of financial intermediaries for eligible items which conformed
to the purposes of the financing.
Equity Investments
FONEI extended loans to financial intermediaries for the amount of equity investments in
industrial concerns, purchases of instruments issued by such concerns on terms of five
years or longer, subordinated or convertible debt, or any other form of quasi-equity.
Conditional Loans
Loans could be extended to finance the establishment and start-up of plants using new
technology, with variable payments at present value. The company could limit its
installment payments to an amount equivalent to a predetermined percentage of its sales
revenues.
Technological Risk
FONEI covered up to 70% of the net economic losses incurred by companies for failures
associated with technologies or prototypes developed in Mexico.
When FONEI was made part of NAFIN, the team that had been handling the program was
transferred virtually intact to NAFIN, and became its Technology Development
Department. Its work continued with virtually no change, since by that same time (in
1989) NAFIN had been converted to a second-tier bank.
The earlier development funds became NAFIN programs, and expanded to cover
practically the entire country. Financing procedures were streamlined, and there was no
interruption in the support made available for technology development, one of the federal
government's priorities.
V.   PROJECT RESULTS
Credit
On balance, looking at the companies helped by the program, it can be said to have served
as the Bank maintained, acting as a first-tier bank to guarantee up to 90% of the discount
authorized to the financial intermediary - which has not, as of this date, taken as active
a role as had been hoped in promoting activities of this type.



- 34 -
It is likewise important to note that the objectives of the credit component were not fully
achieved. The original idea was to lend support at every stage of development, but by
decision of the federal government in 1989, financing was made available only for the
phases closest to full-scale industrial production and marketing; in 1991-1992 operations
to assist at the earlier stages became the province of CONACYT.
Grants were provided very selectively to projects with strong technological merits, but
their numbers were cut from 1989 onward, until they were eventually done away with.
This deprived the program of one of its strongest selling points. In the wake of this
change, coupled with restrictions on conditional loans, which were confined to the full-
scale commercial stage, there was no longer sufficient financial support for subprojects
promoted by small companies with scant resources.
As far back as 1986 FONEI had realized that small companies with little or no track
record in research and development required both technical and financial support in order
to identify areas in which they would need to upgrade technologies, translate that need into
projects that would be eligible for financing, and administer the projects. Such support
was essential to shore up the companies' foundation in technical areas such as production
standards, operating manuals, metrology, quality control, and so on. A subprogram was
devised at that time, within the Technology Development sphere, to provide financial
support for such activities, but it was suspended in the 1986-1987 period when the
program's original staff, which had operated it since 1981, left and were replaced by
another team.
In response to World Bank pressure to increase staff as quickly as possible, and given
FONEI's own budget constraints, it deviated from its original policy of hiring mainly
individuals who had long experience in industry at the intermediate and senior level, and
instead recruited recent university graduates. An effort was made to give them sound
outside training, but they had no experience with industry and technology, and it
subsequently became evident that the results of program promotion initiatives were falling
below expectations, as was the number of new borrowers brought into the program.
Research and Development (R&D) Centers
CONACYT was in charge of the component of support for privatization of R&D centers.
In the wake of changes in the agency's management, implementation was suspended on
this part of the program. The sole rationale for the latter was the lack of specificity in the
operating guidelines as to transfers to private enterprise, and specifically its emphasis on
being the only vehicle capable of channeling resources of this type, without drawing on
FONEI's intermediation capabilities.



- 35 -
Moreover, the World Bank failed to respond in timely fashion to FONEI's initial sugges-
tions, reiterated by NAFIN when it took over as the program's executing agency, to take
advantage of initiatives like the CONDUMEX Center subproject, which took five years
to authorize.
Venture Capita
In the area of equity investments, NAFIN would concur with the Bank's view that the
institution's program does not cover high-risk projects, which is the case of technology
development, for which more aggressive financing alternatives should be made available
like SINCAS and venture capital funds. Such instruments also are more effective in
promoting the sector than loan discount facilities.
VI.   LESSONS LEARNED
1.    Principal Problems Identified in Companies Receiving Support
Lack of Business Experience of Sponsors
A central concern in the financing of technology development projects must be the
maturity of the companies promoting or sponsoring them. Obviously, well-established
firms can fail just as new ones can, but the established ones are better prepared to deal
with the unexpected, and can honour their commitments even without revenues that hinge
upon the success of a project.
Many promising projects failed because their sponsors did not have the necessary business
sense. Most of the companies involved had been operating a very short time. We found
that extreme precautions had to be taken when the projects seeking support entailed the
birth of a new company, with no business track record, much less a defined market. In
such cases, any deviation from the originally agreed term and/or amount of the investment
proved to be virtually fatal, since the only income these businesses had was sales revenue
generated by the project itself. If work was held up for a year, for instance (and this
happened fairly often) and no money was coming in, the company suffocated from lack
of funding. In these circumstances the success of the project no longer mattered, and the
companies juggled numbers to resolve their situation vis-a-vis the financial intermediaries,
who in such instances were more skeptical than ever.
The widespread belief among business novices was that once a loan had been approved the
funds would be forthcoming immediately - and this was a serious error. Frequently they



- 36 -
did not receive the proceeds of the loan until the loan agreement had been formalized, a
process that often took one, two, or even three months, particularly for new companies.
The immediate result of delaying implementation of a project was an increase, be it large
or small, in its cost. Some firms who were fortunate enough to see their projects
completed in spite of every complication entered the market later than planned, and in
technology development, timing is everything. Witness, for instance, the fields of
electronics and computer hardware and software, where after such a delay firms often
discover that a competitor has beaten them to the market with the same product or a better
one.
Unrealistic Goals
Sponsors frequently set unrealistic targets in their work timetables. Very often no float
time was left for the repetition of tests or to rethink strategies. As noted above, any delay
in completion of a project means a higher investment outlay and the even more alarming
prospect of deferring revenues and dealing with loan repayment problems.
In many cases, particularly with process escalation, problems arose that required new
studies, and hence more money.
What works in the laboratory with glass equipment and chemically pure reagents may well
not work properly with plant equipment and industrial reagents. These problems can be
resolved, but when a company is running against the clock and is up against a rigid
budget, any delay or cost increase will have a direct impact on the project.
Administrative Shortcomings in Projects
It is almost a given that creative, innovative people are profoundly individualistic and
skeptical, and reject any hint of structure. This is not only inevitable but perhaps even
necessary, since ideas tend to hatch precisely in such an unstructured setting. However,
such creative individuals are not adept at administering projects or businesses, which
require different knowledge and skills at varying levels, in areas such as financial
management and time management in dealings with a company's suppliers, clients,
creditors, and distributors.
These promotors tended to look down on administrative activities, which they saw as
extraneous. After ignoring this element for a time, they ended up enmeshed in multiple
problems that had nothing to do with the project itself but demanded their time, and in
many cases, triggered the failure of the project and the business alike.



- 37 -
We believe that it is best for individuals with great creative potential to delegate
administrative and oversight work to those who have the required skills and experience.
In some instances we supported projects headed up by an 'orchestra conductor' who
directed the company and the project at the same time. We could cite a number of
subprojects financed under the program whose promotors died, and a short time later the
projects had to be suspended; ultimately the companies (which were family businesses)
folded, because none of the stockholders knew how to run them or was remotely familiar
with contacts set up, clients, suppliers, projects, ideas, etc.
Inadequate Documentation on the Technology Developed
Adequate documentation is the key to a technological advance or breakthrough remaining
with a company rather than with an individual. Otherwise, an employee who knows the
company's secrets takes them with him when he leaves, and from the company's
standpoint all of this information is lost. We have found that in many technology
development projects, in which the type of informal atmosphere mentioned in the previous
section reigned, technological advances were not properly documented, even when they
were successful.
Confusion over Transfer of Technology and Industrial Property Rights
It was evident in a number of projects that we financed that the firms had no experience
in technology marketing. Even though the projects yielded good results, some other
company or institution ultimately reaped the rewards of their achievement.
In more than one instance we found, after providing funding for a business to develop
technology, that the project was violating or impinging upon the rights of third parties.
We also financed some companies so they could pay technology institutes or consultants
to develop their project, only to discover later on that the product of those studies - even
if they were successful - belonged to the consultant or the institute, leaving the company
only with the (conditional) right to exploit the technology.  In extreme cases the
technologist has reserved the right to sell the technology to other companies, including
potential competitors of the company that commissioned the development work.
Lack of a Business Approach in Research Institutes
Projects carried out jointly by companies and institutes or universities have failed to yield
the benefits one might have hoped for. Academic researchers often are not sensitive to
the pressures weighing on business and want to find answers to every scientific and



- 38 -
technical question and variable that comes up while a project is being executed, ignoring
the timetable for completion.
Obviously, any serious researcher will be loathe to release a technology he has developed
until he is completely satisfied that every question has been answered and he has
constructed theoretical models and mechanisms to explain the whys and wherefores of each
stage.
2.    15 Years of Experience
Through the experience we have built up in lending to companies of all sizes in every
branch of industry and technology, we have honed our objective of structuring and
bolstering businesses with high added value to help them compete in the new global
marketplace.
We are fully aware that alongside financing services we must facilitate linkages with
venture-capital investors and technologists, prospective coinvestors, and market
management and consulting services, through NAFIN's regional offices throughout the
country and its offices abroad.
One of the chief benefits that NAFIN has derived from the World Bank's Technology
Development Program is the expertise built up by our technical officers and other staff
members, who are committed to devising new options to meet the needs and objectives of
the companies we serve, working out formal arrangements with the great majority of
Mexico's technology agents, and constantly upgrading business evaluation and linkage
methodologies.
Some of the concrete instruments now in place are as follows:
-    Technology Clubs, which put entrepreneurs in touch with seasoned business
operators and with financial agents and researchers, to establish business ties and
create a business environment.
-    Business profiles, which are sent to financial agents and prospective Mexican and
foreign investors.
-    Coinvestments, mergers and acquisitions, to put institutions and companies in
contact for coinvestment, mergers and acquisitions between the industrial,
academic, and financial sectors, to set up new technology-based businesses in
Mexico and abroad.



- 39 -
Training, so experience can be shared more quickly. Four interrelated possibilities
have been offered to the business community: training in the use of specialized
data, linking the needs and demands of industry; information courses on consulting
services available in the country; training to begin studies on reducing costs,
enhancing competitiveness and bringing in effective technological solutions; and
implementation of business plans to bring products with high added value to
market.
INCUBATORS
We refer to this array of options as an "incubator" package, because its essential aim is
to help with the development, design, adaptation and assimilation of technology
development projects, including the possibility of support for administrative reorganization.
3.    Strategic Alliances
Development banking requires an interdisciplinary approach. Accordingly, a broad-based
program has been instituted to bring companies into contact with the government agencies
responsible for technology development policies and regulations, including CONACYT and
SECOFI.
SECOFI
This agency is in charge of metrology, total quality, and training. It has been brought into
the program so as to be able to offer pooled technical assistance to achieve total quality.
Financing also is supplied for training in total quality at any level.
CONACYT
A special NAFIN/CONACYT program was designed to operate through the Technology
Development Trust Fund (FIDETEC). It provides loans to companies who are developing
long-lead or high-risk projects.
4.    New Services
As was mentioned in the introductory summation of achievements and problems of this
program, the most valuable benefit derived from the operation has been the creation of an
institutional awareness of the fact that financing alone is not sufficient; that the efforts
deployed were inadequate; that there is a need for institution-strengthening at every level,
for promotion, evaluation, supervision, and technical assistance; and that traditional



- 40 -
instruments are no longer the most appropriate nor the most effective means of fostering
the development of technology.
Given these considerations, the intention is to devise a new instrument, which could
perhaps operate as a "high risk fund", consisting of as many facilities and options as the
market might call for. These could range from equity investments with flexibility to take
account of the technological risk, to services for entrepreneurs whereby groups of small
producers could join together to seek technology alternatives that would be useful to all
of them, and spread the cost of research institute advisory services that are needed to
resolve technology-related difficulties.
On this point we recognize, and are grateful for, the support of the international financial
agency, for all the information, advisory support, and training, it has provided and for the
work of its officers, staff, and consultants, who were always responsive to our requests
and above all placed before us alternatives for resolving the problems that arose.
We would not wish to see this process come to an end with the disbursement of loan 2747-
ME, and we would like to convey herein our hope that we can continue to discuss our
program, especially under the new arrangement.



- 41 -
MEE,CO
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
IN'DUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
I. RELATED BANK LOANS
J___I       _ _ 11D!          YEAR OF
LO-AN'TllTLE               I         _^<    APPROVAL         STATIJS    C ONIN IEN75 
Ln. 1560-NE           Finan.e well conceived       1978          closed
Third Industrial      industrial projects,
Equipment Fund        including ITD projects,
Project (FONEI III    and develop FONEI into
Project)              an efficient industrial
sector institution.
Ln. 1712-MiE          Finance industrial           1979          closed     closed 2 years
Fourth FONEI          projects and strengthen                               behind
Project               FONEEI.                                              schedule.
USS 12.4
million
cancelled.
Ln. 2142-ME           Develop Mexico's             1982          closed     closed 3-112
Capital Goods         capital goods                                         years behind
Industries            manufacturing subsector                               schedule.
Development Project   and improve technology                                Fully
assimilation.                                        disbursed.
Ln. 2746-ME           Improve the quality and      1986          closed    fully
Industrial Recovery   broaden the scope of                                  disbursed.
Project               financial services to
medium-sized and large
companies.
Ln. 3745-MNIE         Rationalize public           1991        In progress   project
Science and           funding for science and                               implementation
Technology            develop institutions                                  on target.
Infrastructure Project   responsible for science
and technology in
Mexico.



- 42 -
MECO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
H. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date         Date          Date
Planned       Revised       Actual
Identification                           02/04/85         -          02/04/85
Appraisal                                08/- /85         -          08/ -185
Board Approval                           07/29/86         -          07/29/86
Loan Signature                           09/28/86         -          09/28/86
Loan Effectiveness                       10/02/86         -          10/02/86
Loan Closing                             06/30/92      06/30/93
m. CUNMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSENENTS (US$M)
EI87  FM     I=89   EI29   I=    EY2Z   EY9
Appraisal Estimate            7.4   16.5   27.3   37.2   44.1   48.0    48.0
Actual                        4.6    10.0   14.9   18.7   25.5   39.0    48.0
Actual as % of Estimate      62.2   60.6   54.6   50.3   57.8   81.3    100.0
Date of Estimated Last Disbursement    06/30/93



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 2747-ME)
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs                                         Financing   Plan
Appraisal                           Appraisal Estimate                                   Actual
Component                Estimates  Actual    IBRD      GovVt/, NAFIN(FONEI) and Firm  Total    IBRD    Gov't NAFINIFinan. IntJ Fir    Total
Policy Analysis            0.80        1.59    0                   0.80              0.80      0.79                0.80                1.59
R&D Centers                 -        -         -     --                               -          -                  -                 -
Studies and Promotions   0.20        0.12   0.2                  0.00              0.20       0.12               0.00                 0.12
Investments              16.60      12.31    8                   8.60              16.60      3.71               8.60                12.31
Metrology Services
Studies                  0.40         0.7   0.4                  0.00              0.40       0.20                0.50                0.70
Initial Metrology Improvem    3.10     6   1.6                   1.50              3.10       1.00               5.00                 6.00
<>   Credit Component          75.00        73.9  37.1                 29.60             66.70      36.00               37.90               73.90
(Subproject Financing)                                       -              -            -
Technical Assistance       0.7          1.7   0.7                  0.00              0.70       1.70               0.00                 1.70
TOTAL                   96.10      96.32  48.00                 40.50             88.50     43.51               52.8                96.31
COMMENT
The information shown on this table needs to be verified by NAFIN.



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
V. SUBPROJECT DATA AND PERFORMANCE
NRO OATE Of    MxPROjECT                                                                  AMOUNT         A*354T             RN SICIAL         LOM   OCE                                    LAST
#n1sct  UJPoJUCT                        DOTERP    NAME                    APPROVAL        COST         AUIS S          O3I*              EOElA Y            PtI3O   P130  GUAANTE   SUAfhIS             Uunini  GOALS             NMA  PROOL
MEMBma                                                                   byiWMR           NM             NM              NM                                 tARSI YAR        M        PAYVUT OATE    YVA            MET
        30-1    CENTRO NVES  Y DESARROLLO CONIXAMEX. I                13-141                        537Y   .00       057420.23 654I4MX                   1       2        NO
2        20402   CN4RO MM.ST Y DESARROLLO CONIEX N                     23-141                       11.14")3300       177,M.0  UNMEX                      1       2        No
a        30003   CEm RDEON. Y DES. CON EX SA DEC. V.                   24-601                       51D20.03.00     112O,53.00  uWA                                        NO
4        30404   CER4O INVEST. Y DESARROLLO CONOEX. YI                 24-11                          $2521.00        S140.02  5WMEX                      0       2        MD
5       ICA402  DATAWET SOFlARE, IA  OE CV                             -12_0                          W00,07023.00     4274.00  ESCOER                    7       I       YES                         n1      PARTIAL   COERC AL AM FINACIAL
a       1CS_03  CNSTRLOSSLOO,SADECV III-4(M.L)                        14-01-7                        0111*30.00       173P.00 2 ACORaCCH                 0       O        No                                 NA
7       ICS404   DESARROLLO Y CONSTRLUCCI  MEC SA DE CV I              14-01-87                      $247205423       $115,1.W 2liCRESER                  a       a       YES         DIC 101I                NA
a       ICO4-C     AMERICAN IAHEELS DE   XICO.                        14-01-07                        0134,40223       042RZ200 44TIBACOOCEMAX           7       0       YES          E911012         el     YES                LIOAITY
0       ICe-O.     CORPORACION SOIENETCA SA DE C.V                    15-7                            104,1.00 3NIDCO IENACIO4AL                                                                       S O P    PARTIAL      M530E Of FNDS
10       10cs8-0   DESARROLLO Y PROCESOS aCo S, $A 0                   00-137                          110.02.00       512,521. 3MCO DEL ATLATICO          8 *             P C0                                NA
II       1C8_400   COtPORACOON TEXT1 LOt. IA DEC.V.                    041`47                          147.52000      1$7,112.03  MCO NTERNACO4L           s       I       YES        SEP 100          MI      YES              W*KETV
12       ICS-ClO   CGO.CTORES MArERREY, SA DE C.V Vll                  2403-4,                        $205.342200      150,79005   MCO DEL ATLANT100       a       a       MD                          92      PARTIAL               I
12 13 C-011   ALAO SILTRAWAR, SA DEC.V I                               24-03-44                        032,.00         1$2010902  bAPCOER                 0       I        YES        NO? PAJD         00      YES               LIWOOETY
14       18C412  FRAISA MHER. SA DEC VLI OMPL)                         24-03-84                        1644.072        13,S3500  ALTIAIC0 COMAEWEX         4      O        YES        MAR O            U       PARTIAL          MARKETIC
Is       18C413   CENRT7o AGROCSTLLLR. SA DEC V                        06.01-10                        1.2233.00       $51,072.O 2INCA SERFI               0       a       YES        NOT PAID         02      YES                  'Am
1s       1C8414   CORPORACCI 7EXTIL LORs IA DEC.V 6AMPL)               00-040                          550.112.00      12,442.00ICOWN    TER       L       5               YES        SEP 1040         Sa      YES               MARKET
17       1CB-015  HI0 TECN0CA SA                                       07-03-00                       1293,026.00      $231 46.42  MIAT0lNCO CORW          0       I       PC                          so      YES              NO REPORTS
10       1CE-016  CIRCQTOS RESOS DE PIEtA IA DECLV.                    2103-40                        1242,39200      526604123 K"0.75CO RLEX              I       1       PC                                  NA
le       10C-      EDUCACONYTRANEPERNCIADETEC., SA DEC.V.              14-0141                        01454911.00     $14a0003 MlATIbANCCOMERMEX           0       1       YES        NaTPAID          02      YES                   I
20       1CB421   EDUfCION Y TRANSFERC  DE TEC IA DE C V              20-01-41                       0147.542M       1141*.2,3O WATIBOACO COMEA"X         0       1       YES        NOT PAID         02      YES                   I
21        RA-F     HYLSA, SA DEC V IYV                                 16-0-47     5$1,7.23D723      S0744,0230       5727,241100 85OC  MUXCANO SOMEX       O O            YES        NOP PAID    e     7      YES              NO REPORTS
22       1RA-02  GAM, PAPEL, SA I                                      14-0147         4*.0,470.00    03*5,23          0 $22300,451 2ICO BC N                      I       YES        NOT PAID                 YES                  0"
23       IRA4303  CIa FUNIIDORA DEL ORTE, SA IV (CIPIN4SAJ             1401-47      04,150,74.200    $2,322,344GO 2   1,404W0420  8AN20 INTEJNACIOGL      I       I       YES        NOT PAID                 YES      DELAY W DELVERY OF ECAJ
24       IRA004 Y       I VDESR. TELECY ELECTRI. SACV III              1041-7       02,015,520.2    $E,1011,1572.2   11010,57023 OACASERRFN                7       1                         NA
25       1 RA-OB   P    TAS RoTL, SA SX                                1001-47        011,042.2      53704#1.00 417123023   AMEX                           a       2       PC                          0       YES                 NONE
O26      IRA-C0G   PTOCOCLETAS CARASELk IA DECV I                      20-074       01,2s7s..3        05253.00        145.044.w  IATISANCO  COE.EX         4       0       YES        FES1002          99      YES                 IVY Vl
4               IRA-O    INJSTRAS DE TELECOMICIN IAS DECV II                  24-03-*       112.1S2.397.00    0116,23422      $00407723 MICA SERFPN               a       2        No                         02      YES                    I
20       1RA-CO    NACNAIL DE CONWCTORES ELECTRICOS, SA DE C.V         03-0-A8        W131.4F3.23 W   5363,30.00      $2710.23 MIAMEX                      5       2       NO                          91      YES                   I
29       1RAOiO   HYL&SA,IADEC.V V                                     12-40        111,111.0273     110140797023     177112.00   ICASREPtN                *      I        YES        NCOTPAID                 NA
30       IRA-014  PYOMISA DECV                                         210-'40      01.110.40523      0425227.23       570002  IAI0 OAan PCO CO8ERMMEX     0       I       No                          0       PARTIAL               I
3        1RA-OIl5 GOUPOP`OSA SA                                       2l40         01.1g.22023        142.em2        1518,514.00 COWERMEX                                 No                                  NA
32       IRA416  PYOSA.SA DECV.                                        20,03-91       11,023.00       s00,2s.w0       $5005,4123 057 LMERC DEL NORTE    7          1       PC                                  NA
22       IRA-Cl?  INDSTRIASIEM. SA DECO.) 2It                           021                           5410202         0017632w  SACASERFN                  5       0       PO                                  NA
34       IRA-Ol   PORCINASDETIECNOLOD OAVANZAASA DECV                  21i-031      12,253,0302       $122451.2      51020 w165=  uA40.EX                  a       1       No                                  NA
35       IRA-I9  NYLSA. SADECVM.II                                                                                               MICASASRFdN               a       0       PO                          02      PARTIAL               I
20       1RA-20  TEVESCOA,SADECV                                       31-0541      01.27224023     $1517l70223      $1.01772w  SANCOER                    2       1       YES        NOT PAJD         01      PARTIAL               I
27       IRA-M24  COLWITADORAS EOCACN, IA DE C V                       24-1341      11009 002          S33,520.00     04051202 .W 1C ITNERNACK)NAL         7       1       YES        NOT PAID         02      PAKRAL                I
3        1RES-Cl   ICDEERIA Y PROCESO, SA DECV                         14-01-47       104.00302       12,02.00 23      1475023  UNCO INTERNACIONAL         7       I       YES        POT PAID         s       YES      LACK OP EXPERlI COMPLE
20       IREI 402  PYOSASA                                             14-01-57       000,455.23      017295,06   00    410.17   LUCO.R                                   CO                                 NA
40       IRE14C03  NAvAAERmAos sA                                      14-0147        1120.14423       071,7023 rs05o0   LIAWS                             a       0       No                           0      PARTIAL          TECHNOLOGY
41       IRS-CO5  ECISA CONSTRLICCIOPES IA II                          14-01-47       0109.420.       s14.sso.w        513,DS.00 MHAAIS                    7       0       YES        NOTPC? $5                YES       LACKS NEOOTIATION KNOWHO
42       IRS-COO   HO-sTRIAS RESISTOL. SA Xi                           14-0147        5257.10723      1144.025.0       072n,sw.0  UANOO INTERNACIONAL      A       2       NO                          so      YES                 NONE
43       1RS-007  FUNDO0ORAFALLA SA I A&0L)                            1401-47        133.n7 07        15.87700 3      $11840.2  UNSCOSC H                4        1       PC                                  NA
"4       IRS-COO   TECKNO, SA I                                        14-0147        129,000          $10,021 23        14     Mssr   IANCA CONPIA        a      0        Po                          00      PARTIAL   N. rP40  'tMbb .4. - bn
45       IRS-CO   TECNOR ELECTRPOCA Y CONTOL. SADE CV                  14-01467                         $2,07 23        03,071 23 LAMM INTERNACIONAL       3       0       No                                  NA
4r       IRB-010  COSMOCEL, SA                                         140147         1.50W            010ns,91.02      15s20ow  8420 ExICAIo SOMEX        5       0       Po                                  NA
47       1 RS-CI  BOTES PLASTICOS, SA I                                14-0147        124.2501 00      113.7213        $1200423 SANCA SERFN                0       1       IIO                         s       YES           Pwl_ o a  w
4        IRS-012  ENSAUB. DE PROD AUJTOMOTRICES JOAN. SA I (A)l4      14-01-47       0195.62w         153.5522        1201.3230  AIlS MERC. DE MEX        5       0       No                          s       PARTIAL    DELAY HN ALELNTATION
44       IRS-C13  MA.*ACTUItERA  : DE kEXICO SA                        14-01-47       124,3*723        033.22200       117.3423 NAFN4SA                    1      3        NO                                  NA
so       IRS-014  caw0oaW, SA DE C V I (AAPL)                          141-47        1237.58e3oo      0133.044 2      0144.95223 WBUNCO OBRERO             a      3        NO                          a       YES          SW.    PS  
51       IRE- 015  MERALESYITERLALESC WSA DECO V(AWPL)                 140147        5178.MM002       1100.20223      0103,009.00  NCAA 1SFI               a      I        YES        AIR 1001         01      NO                    I
52       IRS-I16  AMERICNAI4EELSDEMEXICO,I                             14-0147       514.S23123       104,73723        121.230  LNCRESER                   a       1       YES        NOT PAID         95      PARTIAL   F044A4CIAL. LACK OF LKIAurrY
53       IRB-016  AMERICM4WHEELSDE MEXICO, I                           14 71U47      0144.31.23       s03.73372        sr32xw02   MCRESEP                  a       I       YES        NOT PAID         02      PARTIAL             V1-ll
54       1RB-017  SPAC0AL, SA I                                        14-0147        10340002         532,507.23      12021223 MLLBAHCOCOMERMEX           I      5        YES        NOT PAID         92      YES                   I
s5       1RS-018  OUMICAFORTEX. 15A                                    i4"-87         147,017,00       520,010o2       S10,430   BANMCOMEXICANDSOUEX       a       0       NO                                  NA
50       IRS-Oil  nEcKNo, SAI(AWPL)                                    14-01-47       S24,204W         113.55400        10,070 M  MANCA CONFLA             a      o        NO                                  NA
57       1RB-020  CAV IYECDIESEL SA DECOV II                            401 47       0120.278 23       107.354200     S0722GO) BANCACOWFIA                 4       1       NO                         B1       YES      DELAY IN PROTOTYPE DEVELOP
51       1 RS-021  DESARROLLO Y PROCESOS oLOICOS. SA I (AMPL)          140147          S4,752 oo        12.951 23      s113.23 IANAAMEX                    5       1                                   00 as   YES            FWWNCLAL COSTS
10       IRB-022  MAC ELECTRONICA. SADECV I                            140147        3202.01 oC       5113,50723       17.314 23 BANAMEX                   a      0        YES        ABR 1900         92      YES                 "I Y IV
eo       1RB-023  FtANOIDOCA FALPEX. SA 1                              1401-47       5132.500 00       S74.2X 0W       119.553 W  BANCO MEXrCANO SOUEX     1       0       NO                                  NA
el       1RB-024   SISTEMAASICOWPIJACKVIALESAVONZADOS SA I(AMWL)       1401-47        114418503        510,74 00       1151.795W 2 A3NPAS                  5       0       YES        NOT PAID                 NA



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
V. SUBPROJECT DATA AND PERFORMANCE
MAD                                                         oAn o       ur  w_ cT         AOTn           AMO UNTL                             LOM   GACE                                  LAST
_sin s   SRGIUCT                        nPfh7 HA                          APPROVAL        COST    AL T4GR 1             a111D _ETLfOMR                      PS       EO    UAPnS   insan                     O0 LS                MM poa_
-   -                                                        By s     r     x PSI            FIL                                             ftMY q  "MM    O             PAOWT BATE  _        r       mu
a        IRS-OB4   16TYfPmEL, LA DE C.V. I                             14147            6e3101.00      51,7M           112DL00 WALT A  E C. DE MEX         7      2        NO                                 YES       EEINXTUAL S   TREC04 PM
*3       iR-Bm    FA RACACON DE IMUS,A LAX                             14-0147        $504,574.00     52112.611,1     171,)Ih00  MICA SERFIN              7       2       YES        POTM D7                 YES                  NOE
64       1RS-C7   POLEC, SA V1                                         14-0147                          37,1700                  ANC  SC H                 A      0        NO                                 NA
es       IRS-C    CONSCRCIO RNs  LA DE CV. I                           14-0147          37,122.00       20378e.010     111.70200 W1   EX1                  I      0        YES        POT PAID         8      YES       OONTAVMTION SElDOES NEED
as       1R4526   PARCACONES SAOIC S. LSA DE CV. I                     14e407          531026.00       517,87.00       011,47200  AOO  WERC. DEL NORTE M   e       0       YES        OCT1ee1          8       PARTIAL      WAIRED FPIVCAL
67       IRES0CS  FOCODS SAN                                           140147          50,31e.oo      5261,ee.00      012,70.00 MINCA SERFIN                      0        YES        NOT POID                NA
as       IR-1S31   SExOMIA DE ELECTRCONA IOIUTRL4L SAGDE CV            14M047         51623192.00      1613"80          e4L,034400 INtO BC H               0       0       YES       oBC 1990          8       PARTAL            MN IV YVI
W        1RBE-32  A84Ls4    Y SERVS DE PRO  OERALES,                   14-0147          57,276.00       54,75.00        52,61W00 LAu    INTERWCIOWL        4      0        YES        SEP Ie7          87     YES       FPICIAL LACK OF LKIKDnY
75       1R E-033  ORGANWICN PONCE ELECTRROA SA DE C.V.                14-0147        1116619.00        50307.00        5,374.00 MULTimCO COMERt-EX        5      0        YES         NMD.            87     YES                  NYIV
71       1RS-C34   PTRUIEDGDEMEOCOSADECV I                             14-147         51s2.780.00      18162.00         40860.0 SMCRESER                   1      0        YES        JUN151           W      YES            VRJKENG PF6CIAL
72       15-0315  PxxSTRIAs PoL4., sA DE C.V. IV                       26-0-I7         175506.00       536405.00       52667700 MICRESER                           3       YES        POT PAID                NA
n        1RS-036   PYOSA, SA DE C.V. RI                                14-017         0S32,345.00     046.11400       1244,2300 IAULTIBANCO COMENEX        6       1       YES        POT PAOI                NA
74       IRS-037   OH- PAPEL, SA I (1AL)                               14-01.17       136616W G        202.114 G      1151.14700 G WNDOO  CM               a      O        YES        POT PAO                 NA
75       IRS-C      DUSTRA RESISTOL, SA XJII                           21-07467       5352.9W.00      5214,456.00      1002OO  ShinES                      9       2       NO                          so     YES                 NPOE
76       16R-040  ELECTRONA Y CONXICACOES. SA                          21-0747         010,020.50      510,602.00      010,e6000 BAPEAIL                   7       1       NO                         8e      YES          VOLATILE TEaNOLOGY
77       1R-041   DIPLATEC, SADECV.                                    21-0747        1126,966.00      s70,012.00      0s,12400 UNCASERFI                  8       1       ND                         S       YES                  NONE
76       16R-042   NOSTRIAS ALCOS  LSA GE CV.I                         14-0141         58,8900.0o      552,z200        55322100 SAO'  MCANO SOEX           4       1       NO                          U      YES         INSTABILITY IPN PAETS
75       1RW043   SISTEMAS ELECTRONKCS EL  zAS, SA GE CV               1s-0-7          547,514.00     5126000          526.04600 MANCRESER                 8       0       YES        NOTPAID           M     YES               ND REPOrTS
80       16R-044  VALVUAS JET, SA DECV                                 15s047          566,224.00     5132676.0        517051.00  WIODDSCH                 7       0       YES        FES10S2         90       PARTIAL              'A
e1      11R6445   SSTEBMSCASANA,SA DECV.                               15-0-7          175227.00       54,411100        36,327.00 MICASERFN                5       1       YES        FEB1140          ee      PARTIAL             NYIV
O2       1RE8-046  MSCROCOFUTAADORASPARATOOOS, SA DEC.V I              15-017 $51,332.00               526,746.00      522896400  LWANEX                   7       o       YES        AINiK0            e1    YES                   V'
O3       1R-047   ESCad,SADECV.IV                                      15S0,47        0100.100.00      55,104.00       54,426.00   IMADEX                  7       2       YES        NOTPAPO          ee     YES            COSTOFEGPLEWM
04       16R-048  LAMORATORIOS SODSLAK SA DE C.V. II                   04-1247        5506906.00      129.32.0w       1121 07500 MULTIANCO COME&AEX        8       5       YES       NPOr PAD          M      YES       LACK OF OJELY RAW40ATER1
es       1R E-049  VIDEO CARTEL. SA  E C.V. I                          24-03s-e        522,81.00       512,,6.00        07,010.00  NMCRESER                a       0        NPO                        8      YES               NO REPORTS
a        1RE-050    EUSTRLtS ALCOSA, LA GDE CV I(L6PL)                 24-03-I         116,178.00      538,071.00      52,440.00  AuNo MDWIO 50.MEX        4       0       YES       NPT PAID          62      YES
87       1RER051   ONSORC , RSE IA GE CV. I (WSPL).                    24-03-Il        533,088.00      518,128.00      51096700 UHA6X                      6       0       YES        NOTPAID                  NA
M9       1R8-052  RECoNSRuccICNES AurTrooT. PuEBLA SAGE CV             244--I                          530,33.00        22325400 h34 LTNOOCOMCEfhEX        8       0       YES       NPT PAIOD         n       YES                   V
S        16R1-053  GHM. PAPEL,SAI(2AJWL)                               24-0-Il        $4089.00)       5225.622.00     117561500 BACODCH                    S              YES        NOTPAIO         01      YES                   NI
GW       16RE54   NESK LA N                                            144141          561,266.00      54.31.00         5s.3s1.c0    CA SERFIN             4       o        NO                                 PARTIAL          ND REPORTS
01       1REs-055  NEAK SALN 01441-1                                                   575,61600       523,547.00      522.e30.00 MCA SERnIN               4       0       YES        NOT PAID                 Y YES    ZND PHASE OF SUPROJECT CA
62       16R5056  ECISA CONTRUCCINES, SAN 0StPL).                      14-01-1         U42,12500       11o0,181.00      10,000oo SAWS                      7       0       YES        NOT PAID                 Y YES      FINCIAL ARAN&EIDETS
93       1R5-057  ROsTRLs APASED. SA N                                 0S.04-I        01824.06)        14,91000        541,77MO0 BANo DEL ATLANITCO        6       2        ND                         es      PARTIAL          NO REPORTS
94       1RW-050   PELCER.SA                                           (l01-1I        022,381.00      118,66o6.        51,750.00  IULTI6ANCO  COMERAIEX   5      0         ND                                 NA
95       16RBE5   VAESADEMIUCO,SADECVI                                  D 27-06l       145,141.00      52621.0)        S23,4103.00  ANCO DEL ATLATICO      6       0        NO                         91      YES                   I
s6       1R6D114   R.ETR48ED GE MEDUCO, SA DE CV  IVYI A(4PL)          21-06-l         540,144.00      233,t12.00      U5220.00 MICRESER                   I       0       YES        SAd 1N1          So      YES          MAROETNO FIN&NCIaL
67       5R6S061  NEGRO DE HUtD6NEGROIEX SA DE C.V II                  27-40e-4       5442,027.00     5247,535.00     1243,54e00 MICA SERFIN               7      0         NO                                 NA
9        168-062   5647350U501 NA GE C.V. I                            77-06--1l       521,474.00      112,025.00      110,0K.00 MATIUTCOUERt4EX         I       0       YES       NPT PAIO                  NA
K        568-063  AA4ERCAId RlEERLS GE  ED, I VIPL)                    D7--Il          504,8e0.00      030,481.00      130181,01D UIULTACO CUERMUEX        7      0        YES        BE Ios          0n       YES            LACK OF LOKDTY
'0       1RE-OV4  TECNICA RECUPERADOtA, A DE C.V I                      27-00-l       5263,04200       5147.3084.W     1417230010 bNCOER                   7       0        YES        AM10181          S6     YES                 6YVII
101      16R506    CELULOSA GDECHIHIA LA DECV III                      27-0D-'I        115,072.00       5441.00         5.04200  MICA SERFIN              7       0       YES         NOT PAID                NA
102      16R8-64  CELULOSA DE  CH1*UOV, SA DE C.V.II                   27-0U-11         54,428.00      530,475.00      12856400  MICA SERFIN               7       0       YES        NPTPAIO                  NA
102      1RB-067  GAI.ULIPAPEL, SA I (Alt3ML)                          27-0D-18       5203,.S6.00     5104.0.00       511amw7 0AOSCH                       8       0       YES         NOT PAID        01      YES                  RN
04      16R8460   EXYCOLOR, SA DE CV.                                 27-00-14       5223,S71.00      1813516.00     510721600 BMWC  WEXCAO SOWEX    9            2       YES          OT PAIOD               NA
10S      IRS-C4    DESARROLLOTEC. EN ELECT. SADECV N                   27-00-88       5107,375W 00      61.8120       5#1,215.00 MIIA EX                   8       1       YES         NOTPAID         62      YES                   I
100     1RE070  DESARROLLO TEC. EN ELECT. SA DE C.V I                 274D0-88        540.w.00        122.400.00      52215200 6*4M0E(                    8       1       YES         NOT PAID        92      YES                   I
107      1RB-071   AL*AEwrTOSuLTRAYR,SADECV IAWL)                      27-0D46-         17,014.00       13,200          53s16.00 WIAOOUER                          0        YES        NOT PAID        86      YES                LOL6DITY
10      1RB-072  CERASCA EXY. SADE C.V                                27.0848        9 11W070.00       5,m0370        0o30,704.00 Auto M COUCA    SOAEX    8      2        YES        NOT PAID                NA
106     1R-074   CIRCLJ.ODUSTRAL, SADEC.VI                             m s-04-16     1210,762.00     1118,040.00     111787500 SAICOSCI                   0       1        YES       SPR 1961         86      NO        MISAPPRCPATIONOF FUNDS
110      1 RB-075   5R0CA0OS TECNCOS ESPECIALIADOOS SA                 03-04-m 6       536212.00       5320,7.0 0       20W,27100 WI.R ANTOCOCWERIAEX      7       1        YES       NOT PAID                 NA
III      I RB-OT   PROTEXA SA DE C V.                                   mes0-l        1100,1010        561,277.00      140 UNW 00    nSANCOSCOMERN0EK    6         I        YES       NOT PAID         es      YES        IWAOTATUL4Y WITH PAN
112      IRSO78   0e15TRas RESsTOL SA XV                               03-04-ms       5241.4520         141.050       112967.00 WMIAIEX                    8       2        No                         8s      YES                 NONE
113     1RWS-7    0NDUS15 RESIsTOL, SA   m6 03-04-8                                  5164,03.o0       191,967.00       80,072.00  W844EA X                8       2        No                         61      PARTIAL 
114      1R-MG   ZdLcO EXTRLUlOES LA DE C V                            0o-04-          58,706.w        547.000 M        4730200  MICA CREA                 a       1       YES         AMR 192         90      PARTIAL               I,
115      IRW-OI   P44-EL, Y AsAcos,s.c. SC                             02-04-88           ,666.00       53,670          5288800 IIAuto NT1EAIINICIOCNL     5       0        YES        POT PAID        60      YESND REPORTS
116      1 RB-2   CIFUNSA SAGDECV                                       me03-4-1      5.785.00         275.00.0W     5s306.733   lANoC NTEMNACIOmi.L       5       0        NO                                 NA
117      1 RB-W    PRO0UCToRA mEXCAIDE WGASIIRLA CONSTRUCCIOP           0o1-l         027,541100       115,421.00     515421.00 MICA SERFIN               4       0        YES        NOT PAID        91      PARTIAL              OVA
118      1RB-04  cLWpRooLm4 LsA DEGE c. VO I0-O1-Is                                    S81,4240W       550,013.00      5s02e7w00 SHEA SERFIN               6       0        NoD                        G       YES                    I
119      IRS-O    LNCA SERVICIS V PROOUCTOS                             5.01- 5s 10,.00G                 61312600       52.300W MULAlANuDo 04E1t0EX        4       0        No                                 NA
120      IRS-O86  DESARROLLOTEC. EN ELECT. SA DECV  (ALPL)             06-01-6         110,000           56.16500       5612003  MIoAEX                    8       1        YES        POTPAID         92      YES                    I
121      1RW67   DESARROLLO TEC. Ed ELECT. LA GE C V 9 6MIPL)           501-es          M6.404.00      S38,50.00       524.0211. 00 N4                     8       I        YES        NOT PAID        92      YES                    I
122      iRS-O    M64 CELECTROCA LA DE C V NOWtL)                      01-019.0       530,2270D        521262,00      5175372.00 6*4646EX                  4       1        YES        AM1990          92      PARTIAL             B Yfv



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
V. SUBPROJECT DATA AND PERFORMANCE
RO                                                             DATE OF     WIPoJIcT           ANOINT           ANOINT             FIANAWNCAL         LOAN   GRACE                                  LAT
aljIENCE  sunojscCT                       98TRPR   lNE                       APPROVAL         COST         ALUTNDrJO         D5m34SED           ITERNEDIARY        PER1DD PER0D 8U8RAN871    8UARANTIE    SJIWIRV1N   GALE                  MWAN PROL
861R        98.58                                                            BY SANK                                                                              Y 50  0  (YEARS) (1ARr5   TSN    PAYNSIT DATE  YEA          MET
12n       IRS-O    sA 2EF5aADoREs Y EXPORT DE CAFE SOCONUSCO I             o 08414-0       v5.015.00        508.40s.         5X3,44000  IINAMEX                    8       2       YES         NOV 181           81      YES           DROP IN COFFEE PRICE
12        IRS-090   ENZIC1L0A SA SE C.V. I                                 0oro-00        5W18S47)       .00 545,44LI5X)       7,.847 00 XBANCO MERC DEL NORTh    a        0       YES         NOT PAID                  NA
125      IRSOI   Ml SE RACIS. SA SE CV V,08-01-                                            5545,001LO      531.30M          531,31100  4LALTANCO COWAERWEX        5       0        NO                           90      YES
128       1 RB-On   FILAMN3 MOCA40S SA SE C V                              5.0140          511008,32.00     558.488.00       118.88000 8ANDO 58 C H                5                NO                                   NA
127     1i R-S0      DESARRXLO E NEELTOACO SA                              08-01-4       115,350,00).00        1562.00          552.00  rNIPN                      4       0        GO                                   NA
123       1RB504   CA. ORAL SE ELECTrOA SA SE C,v.                         08-01-8        530,473.00       5179,406.00      5154.924.00  BANCA CRE0                a       I        YES        NOT PAID          8       YES              LOSS OF STAFF
128       IRS-O      CLk ORAL SE ELECTROICA, SA SE CV.                     16-05-89        3320,473.00     5179,4t5.00       541,936.00                                             NO                                   NA
130      1R5-S       PYOSAk  A S ECV. v                                    15s-05         5811,797.00      5482,807.00      5478,108.00 t8A1No1ACOOERNIEX          8       1        YES        NOT PAJOD        8        PARTIAL                I
131      1R54?97   GARA SERVC , IA SDE CV 1V                                              64-06  14,831.00  53.088.00       128,886.00  ANCOWR                    5       0        YES        NOT PAJD          92      PARTIAL                I
132      1 R B508    TERIIASOLAR, SA SE CV.                               160-8           58,880800        550,34400        582,570.00 NAFN4A                     S       0        NO                           so      YES                N.4 Repa
13i       1 RSeS    FOPOS, SAN (AIWL)                                      1'.06-8        518,54.00         583,29383.00     553,8600  1ANCA SERFIN                8       0        YES        NOT PAID          92      YES                   N4U
134       IRS-100  NE0CSCAONGIINERASTA. SAELAPAZYAANEXAS,SA                16405-8        518,9470         s1121.41.00      51189486Go  bWPCASERFIN                5       0        NO                           so      PARTIAL   F _.ddaAo-s.56ilST -
135       1RB-101   FARK)UO     COSDEJlITEPEC.SA DECV                      0703-80         520,461.00       511147.0          SO.8 A.0  INCACOWL[A                 7       1        YES        NOT PAI0         93       PARTIAL                V
1i      1RB102   OIPLATEC SA DE C V                                       0743-90        5237.2 00        51900280.00      5113.018.080 IANCASERFIN               7       ,        NO                           91      YES
1sT      1iR-103    QLO  REACCCONES, SA                                    07-03-8         158,57.00        548,861 .00      532,942.00  ANCO INTERNACIONAL        7       I        YES        NOT PAID          91      YES
136       IRS-104   CRCURITs DE PUEBLA. SA SE CV                           07-03-86         58386.00         53.56700         53,3800                                               No                                   NA
129       IRS-l105  GRUPO FO06, SA                                         07-0340        546,325000       5386.0.00        5220,772.00 COLERWEX                                    NO                                   NA
140       1RB-106   CELSOL 5AOECV C.                                       2-10-          5182.594.00      5107.883.00      11100,03.00 BANCO   RCR DEL NORTE    8         1        NO                           so      YES                 N.
141       1RSlOT107  FEPO0C0OAVARRIA FERNAINEZ                            Z310-811         5a984.00         s18,486.00       517,530.00 EANCA SERFIN               S       I        YES        NOT PAID          83      PARTsIL                IV
142       IR110   SERLEC,SA DE CV.                                        07403-80       s46,076.0o       5194,922.0       1171,14800 8ANC0SERFIN                 7       0        No                           0I      YES                    I
143       IRS-l0   FERRONUCLEOS,6A SECY. V.                                07-0390        S1115,30.00        886,087.00       5449100 IANCACREM                    0       1        YES        AJN 1991          83      YES        WREETP83LAM OFLKAIOrTY
144       IRS-I10   FERRONUCLEOS ISA SECV I                                074-0-0         146.583          547,83.00        154,3880 INCA CRE15                   9       1        YES        UAN1861           92      YES       MARKETrN LACK OF LKICAISY
140       IRS-Ill    IXIESTAAO,SA  EC.V.                                   07.03-90       164,86300        21 11,90.00      S1465.450.00  A14400AER                5       0        NO                           e1      PARTIAL 
148       IRS-112   TECNCARECIPERADORASA DEC.V  `APL)                      07-03-80       5151,40 00        S4M.78600        5J3.34400 8,46COMER                   7       0        YES        AGO1              86      YES                  NYVS
147      1RS-113  TECNOELECTRONICA M. SE INOVACION I                      07-03-80       584,627D0        1153,369100      510e7w00 IANCASERFIN                  8        1        YES        NOT PAI0                  PARTIAL               VM
1^        1RS-114   TECNOELECTRONCAPM. DEUOVACIONIIOWL)                    07.0F-90        136,132000       521,351W00       S20,3900  ANCASERFN                   8       1        YES        NOT PAlO          91      PARTIAL               VM
148      IRSI-115   CORPORACON INA1ISCA INOSTRIAL SA OE CV                 057-03-0        515,s88.08       55031300         548,2e835.   8ANico COIAERMEX        8        1        YES        NOT PAID          n2      PARTiAL               tI
1SO       IRS-IS   PLAST.ST DLASSE  CO SA SECV                             07-"0          1171.50.00        586,083.00        43.532,020.00 IN EX                 8        0        NO                           81      PARTIAL                 I
151       IRS-il7   ICJoTRIASRESIsTDL SA XXI                               33-15-8        5216,898.08      5122,45200       S115,89400  AIWEX                      8       3        NO                           8s      YES                No Rep%
152       IRS-I11   TEOfFIRSA,OADECV.                                      23-10-86        18,0.00.         530,6400         523,941.00 ICONNTERNACICAAL           1       3        NO                                   NA
153     1RS-Ill9  WOUTRMA RESITOL, SA                                     33-10-         s58,5s4.00        54,13300         5320,3780  INW                        5       2        NO                           89      YES                 N. ea
t      154       IRS-O120      oUSTR4S RE85 O6 LSA XX                              23-1046        S225336,34M      5137.83O0         587828300 INASA EX                   a       2         NO                          81      YES                     "I
155       1)tS121   ICJSTRLALADOORA RATECND SA SE C V. (AWL)               3-10460         156,736.00       144,825.00       S443.00w  ANA8AEX                     4       1        YES        NOT P880          92      PARTIAL               4
IsO       IRS-122   T555AS ELECTRONKCOS DEL 4AZ25 SA SE CNV                2&4-0390       5139,33.0         180.89 M1800       5819.800 IFWSA                     8        O        NO                           86      YES         DELAY dN WAPLENTAMoN
157      1RS-I23   PERFEkSADECV.                                           213--0         11231183.00      5150,3#60M       1`15638808  LNA SERFIN                8        3       YES         NOT PAOD         8l       YES                     I
156       1 R.124   MAIuFACTURERAGORUS. SADECV                             2e3o-0          S11.70400        511,034.0        11054400 IANCA PROWIEX                3       0        NO                          52       YES                     1
15i       IRSI25   SIOETEC ELECTRONICA SA SE C V.                          25-030          550,71 00       5301.448.00      1150,06.00 IANCA SERF9N                7       1        Go                          83       YES                   V-N
18o      1RES-126   WRYAAL SE MEXICO, SA SE C.V                            2es-0340        1,27 00          533,7e7wO        531,891.00 NNATMlAACO *ERW4EX        8        1        YES        GOT PAID          92      NO                     V
1e1       IRS-2I   CunlLPsAoEC.V                                          238-0340        5611.9410        1342867.00       S343,867.00   NCASERFSI               3        1        NO                           53      YES                    H
183       I RS-IS   I(2 , N0TRISHERtEL.SADECV IAWL)                        39-03-80        524,3.00         514,136.00       514,136.00  rIPA4S                    5       0        GO                           92      PARTIAL 
18a3     IRS-S N189R9A4cm CeELS DEmExiCO. I                                26.0380        111`1235.00       183,007O0        18356700  NAW8MEX                     8       1        NO                           6       YES           FIANCIAL LKDrTY
184      IRS-ISO 430  A1E469 25vwELs SE mEx5CO. III                        36-030          581,579.00       536,01000        5360100 SANIAEX                      4        I       YES         NOT PAID         82       YES           FrANCIAL. LKAO4Ty
186      IRS1-4i   ACERTEK.SA SECV                                         26.03890       1230,570.00      S120,s8.00       5132085400 INCOtRC, DEL NORTE         4        1       YES         NOT PAID          w       YES 
le        IRS-132  ALAFLEY,XSA DEC.V I                                     303-90         1136,30.0         U61,549.00       11,04800  ANCODELALPANPICO           8        0       YES         NOT P8O           83      PARTIAL                 I
67       IRS-I33   DESARROLLO E INVESTIGACIOL SA                           2110390         1861,61.00       536,482.00       519,34.00 SAI   E                    I        I       YES         GDT PAtD         w2       YES                    N
Ias      IRO-1 5   AR ELECTR0N4CAAPLICADA. LA SE C.v                       14-05-90       131`,m00.00      s17 78920W       5186453.00 BANCO ATTERSACINAL         5        2       YES         NOT PAID                  NA
,s       IRS-1I6  ACEITESYPARINASINDUSP RIALES. I                          14-06U         5251.25000        129,50.00        51e,728W00 DIMMER                    5        1        NO                          9n       PARTIAL                 I
17       IRO-1I37  TRAILERS SE MOTERREY, SA                                14-08-0        1318,8480        5177,33.00       $154801800 INCA SERFN                 7        3       YES         GDT PAID         8l       YES                     I
171      IRS-1-    S0ALvAOORKO4ACOREOWG3A'SADA                             1448140          54.4700          S,504.00         5323600   NCAOO8ORERO               3        0        NO                                   NA
In       1RES-I 3     OSIUSTRRESStSOL. SA                                  1406-8          311,133200        19,004.00        571.00  rNAX                        a        1        NO                                   NA
in       IRS-OS140  N TRIAS REs8ST15        SLA 1XXI                       144-0-          127,864.00       515,447.00       11472500   NAIEX                     7        1        NO                           el      YES
174      IRS-441 NlUSTRiAsRRESISTOI LA XXIV                                14-0141       5s74n.00   s 4050,2600             5364,410.00 rNA                       7        I        NO                          91       YES                    V
179      IRS-142   HECI DER   EIIUCO SA DE C V                             14-014-1                         1110.00                    LANCA SER9FN                                 NO                                   NA
17i       19S142   HECKER DE MEO. SA SE C V                                Z04                                   0.00                  INCA SERFIN                                  NO                                   NA
17       1RE4-1L4   ELECTROOL8COAMCANN LA DEC.                             144141         1157,817.        s56,375.00         54374480   SANW                     a        I        GO                          92       GO                    N.V
7n       IRS-l45  TECNOLOGOAACULC0A SEL GOLFOOfE CORTES, SC L              14-141         54,479,00        5475,70c.00      5475,700.0  AN ER                     1       3         Go                          9i       PARTIAL                 I
i"       IR1S144   CONDUCTORES M4NTERREY SA DE C.V                         02-15-6        1387.50608       5205.4W.Do        122,e9s.w  MNALT8CCOER EX            5        1        NO                          92       PARTIAL                 I
180       RS-147   COODDTORES ONTERREY  A SDE CV,                          02-10-40         44,88.00        5320,030X         ss,s.500  ULTANCO COERAX            5        1        NO                                   NA
Iel      IR-14e  PASTOILASDC,MEXICO,SA                                    02-15-86        134.851 W         118,517.W       S111,55.00 BAN4EX                    a        2        NO                                   NA
153       IRS-4lS   PLASTKOLAS SE MEICO SA DE cV                           02-150-0        124886.00        515,821.00    U    8,44000 rAAAE                      a        2        NO                                   NA
183      IRS-IO50   POSRASRESISTOL(SA XXV                                  03-105-8       1154,327.00       186,424 0        5180.52000  oNAW4EX                  8        1        NO                                   NA



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
V. SUBPROJECT DATA AND PERFORMANCE
1In                                                       DATE   _ uElaXT   _ NoOLIT                   DIW               OANNCML           LOOM  GRAM                                 SLT
6         UUP6WC?                      03L 6T                            APPEUAL       CeLT          AUt 40l1         Gg                                  M      MO     UMRnWU   SfM SE    UW            ON   SCALB    D      l-   P4u_
1U4      15151  6916106 ASIOL, LA                                     02-1040         l70           1106.120        $l0a1   tl                          6       2       NO                                 KA
15       1R1-152  E9uJrITAL RwEUTOL &A  mm                           02-1040        M447.0l0       112662=          W,737.1  LAd*                      a       1                         No               KA
Ill      105-154   WAO         PTICAAPAaA &A DE CV.                   02.104         2144,U160       174300          171,466.00 LNI                     4       0       NC                         U       W                POO rTL
1.7      iWIR  5   DENTALT ATA DE MCICO, ADE CV.V                     02-1040        1131,61420      L7.460.00       WOM6.00  A1CA CR.V                 3       0      N                                  NA
Ut8      10'-16S I4T13400WA. DE A        OPtROCE .L$A DE C.V.        02-10440        06 40           "6,76"20       037.74   VIM0 DC. LATLt10                  I       WE         NOTI PO          2   I E
iii      11$tiRi    L4A0RATORA TOa..C. LA PEC.VC                      02-1040        052X2.0        032.1 4X0       $01,40720 INX                       1       2       No                         02      PA11 RT4L
100      IR14lE   TlECNODT, SA DE C.V.                                30041          t20.100         112"'I40       1112,D20 INCA  WINP                 4       1       Wu         NOT WONC           PntTAL                     I
13      1R0-11    1R0,0  LADE C.V.                                   30141          142,612.00      024.0*6.00      024.723.4  IN00CNO 8CE             0       0       YE COWlPEA N        O                 OTNC  P02  
102      105-100  PORC000DE TLCNW..OOAVAPRAA, LA DAO  C.V             30e041i         047.0120       12Ut06400          756.01)0 SWV                    6       1       NO                                 MA
IC       105-161  SIom DE   oD, tA  A C.v.                            06440          3801,4230      0,2t7.00 s051.60 WLA.IINOO CO*EI                    a       1      YE         M NOT ne                Wu
16,4     1R-12  UCM  PAOE mCO, LA OE CV.                              06441          047,7u10       0104,17120       0101M0 MULOICO CO4lAE              6       1       YES        NODT PAID       el      PAnW 
195      110-164  AmITWBPm         o,SA DEAC.V.Il                     26.)3.01        13,.00         01."6770        SI6,73.00 14600*ER                 a       2                                 C2       W                     I
U66      1-R1467  PA60cAcIoL eusTRJALL lUmX  LA OE C.V                 04D6-01       12*7,4400      s16t.lO70       $1603M0 bATT.MERC. DEC PA X         5       1       NO                         02       E                   IV
197      IR1SS-U   FPAE LA PE C V                                     2W4m0           07,164.00   1 54,163.03        053642.10 WtI                      0       1       MD                         02        0W.I
1665     IRBS-l   FPLTRAlE SYXTOIDEP  0CO. LA DE CV                  0U4441         0N7,106.00      615.610         514,60  INYMI                      5       0       NO                                 KA
166      1R5-170    IW 5TES FFUMAHCASTLPWNA,5  ADECV.                 060441         5J11,510.00   S1166 )00        0164,442.00 INCOECH                 5       2       NO                         C       P6W                   I
20 IRS-i    M               LA DAE C.V. I                             2604           125,0410       SM.12*.00       0171.67420 NO.6 MC.ODE PA           5       1        NO                        C       NO                   VW
261       1R-172    RA, SLA PE CV.I I                                 256.03-1        .o7146.0       166277.00         07.)6720 KATl. MOEC DEX          5       1        MD                                NO I
302      1RB-173  CALPO, 5A PE C.V I                                  2041           0123*6.1   100  07U             W4,700  W067400  MOO  rACONAL      6       1       WE         NOT POC                 P001w.                I
2        IR&03-174  CALJPo. LA OE C.V 6                               2640-01        013W,231.00     10606.60        146.2    6ANCO *ERPAANONAL         9       1       WE         NOT NO           2      PARTIAL               I
204      1R-175       AtECEC. L PA cV                                 2560 01          .16Rl3.W   5 114,770.W       0114466.00 WiNOD 5TIM   0144N.      6       1         ES   b OT PAID           C2      W                   1-ESII
2D S   105-176  METC. LSA PE C.V.                                     260041   t 116,10 1.00        0104.0           03.10  140   WC 0ERTEUCIMA,        a       I       WE         NOT ND    0      2      WE                   .1
206       1R6-177  AM TEMP P   OUCO. SA PE C.V M                      26-00-1        02,721.00       013.26400       012.21100    COMER                 6       2        MD                        C       WE
2 207  1RB-176  AR TM PDEA M OO, SA DE C.V 6                                  02001            20,410.60     $14MG0          0,1410200 *OME                     a       2        ND                        C        ES
206      IR-ItS7  CI ORULDEELSCT00NCADECV                             021       5151tW 0114A014.00                       6050  6MER                     6       2        IC                                PR
306      IRIS-lU0  wao1A PAEC CINUCTVREs ELE RICS. LA PE C.V.         14041           055.720       0334,120.00     334130   ANDOE                      3 O     0       NO                        I0        ATV0. 
210      1RS-161   1D4. YHElUtAMbTAS URRF& LA PE CV.                1U4-01                         066,524.00          S00 INCA PR0kIl               7       2        IN                        C       YES W
211      1M1-12  wTE        AS.omoi m,aSaALTOREsL        PAEC.V. 1V60401             1162.064.00    0102.211.00       46.77500  IMoR                    6       1        No                                NA
212      IRS4I3  PIT190CIONIA PA ALWENTO6 PRES0  LA PE CM. V          1604-1         1413,M.0*0     0231.776.00      50,75220 IIACMR                    a       1        NO                        C2      PATIAL                4
213      10R-184  TEONO101IAA OOLA DEL. OLFO DEOPA     ES0 C. L. *C1641             0754,460.00    0422J.0W.00          UD00 INC R                     6       1        No                                NA
214      IRSi-lE    CRt5TAMEL. LA OE CV1. 160441                                     108.7000       $31402720       $312,00S0 NW     lR                 8       0       WES        NOT ND          02      PARTL                 IV
210      iRS1-S  CRLAEL, LA OE CNv                                    16441          0530,66.0020    46sw            46Z00720 6AOME6                    6               YES 0 WTENOT               92 NCRP IAL                  IV
216      IRB-rE7  SERSICOE Y PIOSECTOS EN LI5      . LA PE C V        2D0641         1166,616.00     16 SOJ20.W       WAN=6,6060 I   MC.ACDS            6       I       YES        NOTPNC          01      PARTII
217      IR1S-IL    ORK PA. LA PE C.V. I (REST                        206.41         0774A060        40424640       04.40  mN5 aC                       5       I       YES WE     NTS NO                  MA
216      IRS1-l1   0L16 LA PE C.V.                                    20641           034.06D0       $117020         519,051.      W                    I       I       YES        NOT NC          01      WE                    IV
219      IRSB-10  PROIW PAE COO PAR5ACO                  M &A PC      26H061          63S.250        020102.00           6O.W  U. DE C.   . TP                  0        C                         C2    YWE                     V
220      1FJI 91   PROMCTOC.CIW CSOELADO6CI.AMAYA6A DE C.V.           03n1041        *1160260       012826. 10 011,706.00 U. DEC. AGO    CUL            6                IHO                               KA
221      105-192  P0OOC.TO  CON1ADOE Da lAfAYA& LA AE C.V.            03.1041         13.4010        10,a4too        04,(02   U. E C. ANO.CUL           6       1        ND                                MA
m        IRS-190   S ASELLCWUOSE Da lAgS, SA PE CV.                   22-1041        102.433.00     5615.2CO0       0S417420 AIN                        7       0        NO                                NA
323      1RB400  CERREY LA AE CM                                      22310-4      $0l.CO.DC00      61.040*120    Ml.40DE0W0   O  C.       DEL    E     S       1        NO                        C2      YES
224      115-21    tIRLO  LA PE C.V 6 14L                             2.1041         0176,66220      066,662.00      0W7.0300    4DO MCC SOLEX          a       2       WE NS OTD NC                2      PARTAL                V
225      1 5-202   Mo. MECTOR RLIEWERAZA                              26-1041        s016,7120 D       6*0.0              10.  INCASERH                 3       0        No                        C2      YES                   1
225      15R-23  kVALW~  903 SA PA C.V.                               26101           041.0420       0222nX4.W       020,M25A00 46,4.1E4.  DE PA X      7       1        NO                        C       P02WAL
227      1R5-204   aUSCA A1RoCMCADE    C Ls. PEAL                     2&10"4   S      10OS00 W0   U     40W20            6020 INC R                     0               WES        NOT NO                  NA
225      1R05-26  P910.   LA I                                        29.1041        00,70600       6264,60         $264.636.0 WATIW OCXlEt    7                1       WE         NOTD N0                 PATIAL               V6
22 195R2S6  GM."03t& SA                                               20.1041         464.763.0     07.4760              60                                              HO                                NA
230      IR0-2I? 1R 1A IERRANSITAS PROEBPOWSLI, SAK P C.V             2.1041         0004.66720     022.5310                   INCA _E9N                7       0        ND                        01 PrW 
2D1      10B-20II  0CClOYKVLOT DEA CROLLO  CNOOICO                    24-12un          606M0 04,753.00                   6020 IANCASE0IN                                 No                                NA
232      1RS-0   EVIOPO IWODXICN. SA PE C V.                          24-1241        11.18720       U342.26.00      1342.26420   W1 lR                  4       1        No                                NA
233      105-210  PUTA 5ECU1ERACMDE P        L7ATODE ALLIDU            15002         124.1120        $13.40120        13.130                                             NO                                NA
214      1RB-211 IRIOIR OEOI. V REPVE.2WTRML, IA OE C V.              150442          162,62W6        Wl15100        04, .00          D _iLO *T                 1 4m                               *2 6  I  NO  C  Wu
23       1R3-212  SNESITWY DIESARILTIECR LO0AU OTIEC. LA PA CV        150642 U       t ,5250        S16    00 M142.6012  IN4IE                          7       1       YE         NWT NC                  NA
236      1R5213  0ELAR0LLO0EMPREAOAIAL TEC1O6O0                       10.04.02       681,1.00         5040450             Wo20                                           NO                                NA
227      115-214  COWSAODE CMV                                        104M02         0106,61s20      61,20           160,673.60   WNC                   a       I       WE         NOT NCS         C2      YESWE
2Y1      1.5210  1AG0." Y E Vul.PO        *                           1544.2        0123,701.00       730               0.0                                             No                                NA
230      115-216  EL CAkV0ON DOADO LA                                 150442       01.31911000      6734,6640            W60                                            NO                                 NA
240      1R80216  LLTRA COO P0ows LA                                  150102                        S01.2*.12            6020
241      1R5-21   TECHNLI#CIA OI  DESAR111010O PA UIT3AL              1540602                       0443,251.00          6020
242      105-220  HV1 LA                                              10.06.2                      S2.126.,75Z12          O00
243      11R21   EL C*AIIDN0OADO                                     *5.002                        03.240,              10.00
244      21-401   DATANTS ITI0I4AT .L LA                              11-1040                       SU4,47J4        9264,47.64                                                                             MA



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-ME)
V. SUBPROJECT DATA AND PERFORMANCE
aD                                               "Ts OF   IWpWuT         DAOIMT       AUOW            FAMMAL        La"                                  LOST
aEwC,   mmoJ                    u.MPMA                      AMWAL           T cflllOD            OISUJ           Eo_tm1m       PC?"0 p       ArRO  M   GUA*MITI    UW1RU    OALS         mm D D 
-        ISN_II                                             my MM        NM           PUAI    tU1                 tlMS ML"    OV                      A P^AIE  DAT  w _T
246    21!B2   IST1MOO  SA k254l                                                   11,016&5    1111 625
24     2E8S402  wcuAo  DO 1t Ew CoN sA TEoLOOICA          311 4*4.20                             151.0685                                                              lNA
247    2EBSS-O   wdE0O*.tNC 6 ALELw   PtOCYS sA DE CV      21                       5273,.00    127324.00                                                                NA
248     M-S   mvTALrmOA S A.                               18.5-02                  125.928.4*    1125.1.48                                                               MA
240    2EE-O    OLA ACRiI.A6SOA SA                         1.06-0                    66,00.0     SUAII                                                                   MA
TOTALS                             M5,7UASM.00  4",4,0S11   2577?575.202
NOThS:
A- TWE OF EAPLDETATION PO6Lt
V NO " See
11 OPERATE OR TE1CH1EL
11- WAEM.ATE PLAN.
7F bMKETM OR t CO.4ARCLOAT1ON.
V LACK OF AWAKABYLrY OF WJTAL VATSERIALS.
3 AO8STIWIVE OR l4.N RESOLNCES
W FWICLaL Olt COST E1CALATIO
VW OTt
00



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART 1
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747- ME)
VI. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ENTERPRSES FINANCED
SEQUENCE                                                                                                                                     ENTERPRtSE
NUMBER                     NAME OF FIRM                                PROOUCT RESEARCH TYPE                 LOCATION         SECTOR           SIZE
1    ACEITES Y PARAFINAS INDUSTRIALES, I              PARAFINAS, PLASTFICANTES, ETC., PIPROCESO OE HULE   JALISCO     OUEMICAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
2     ACERTEK. SA. DE CV. I                           PARTES METALICAS PLA IDS. FERROVIARIA              NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
3     AJR TEMP DE MEXICO, sA DE C.V. I                                                                    YUCATAN       METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
4     ALAFLEX sA DE C.V. I                            DUCTOS Y MANGUERAs                                  HIDALGO       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
s     ALIMENTOS ULTRAMAR, S A. DE C.V. I              EMPACADORA DE OSTION Y SALMON AHUMADOS              JALISCO     FOOO, BEVERAGE, TOB.  SMALL
o     AMERICAN WHEELS OE MEXICO. I                    RINES DE ALUMINIO PARA AUTOMOVILES Y CAMIONETAS    NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
7     ANALISIS Y SERVS. DE PROD. MINERALES,           PROTIPOS DE PULVERIZACION                           JAUSCO        METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
8     BENEFICIADORES Y EXPORT. DE CAFE SOCONUSCO II   CAFE PROCESADO                                     VERACRUZ    FOOD. BEVERAGE, TOB.   LARGE
9     BOTES PLASTICOS, SA. I                          ARTICULOS DE PLASTICO                               JAUSCO        METAL PROOUCTS     SMALL
10    BRIMEEX, S.A. OE C.V I                           PARTES Y COMPONENTES ELECTRICOS                     MEXICO     NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
11    CALIPO, SA. DE C.V. I                            POLARIZADORES DE CALCITA OPTICA                 BAJA CALIFORNIA OTHER MANUFACTURING   SMALL
12    CAV INYEC DIESEL, SA. DE CV. I                   AUTOPARTES, INYECTORES                             COAHUILA      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
13    CELSOL,S.A DE C.V.                               COLECTORES SOLARES OUE ALCANZAN 90 GRADOS C.      NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
14    CELULOSA DE ClIHUAHUA. S A. OE C.V. I            PASTA CELULOSOICA AL SULFATO                      CHIHUAHUA      PAPER PRODUCTS     LARGE
15    CENTRO AGROINDUSTRIAL. s5  OE C V.               FUMIGANTES                                        QUERETARO    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
1e    CENTRO INVEST Y DESARROLLO CONDUMEX, I           R & D NEW PRODUCTS & MATERIALS                    OUERETARO        AUTOMOBILE       LARGE
17    CERAMICA EXY, S A. DE C.V.                       MATERIAL PARA CONSTRUCCION                         COAHUILA    NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
18    CERREY, S.A OE C V.                              GENERADORES OE VAPOR                              NUEVO LEON       BASIC METALS     LARGE
19    CIAI FUNDIDoRA DEL NORTE. SA IV (CIFUNSA)        MOLDES Y HERRAMIENTAS                              COAHUILA      METAL PROOLICTS    LARGE
20    CIA GRAL OE ELECTRONICA, S.A. E C V.             ELECTRONIC CONDENSERS                           aISTRnO FEDERAL   METAL PROOUCTS    MEDIUM
21   CaFUNSA. s. OE C.V.                               FABRICACION DE PRODUCTOS DE HIERRO NODULAR Y MALEABLE   COAHUILA  METAL PROOUCTS    LARGE
*              22    CIRCUITOS IMPRESOS OE PUEBLA, s. OE C.V.         CRCUrTOS IMPRESOS OE UNA Y DOS CARAS                PUEBLA         AUTOMOBILE       MEDIUM
ON              23   CARCULO INDUSTRIAL, s k OE C V. I                 AVION FUMIGADOR                                    TAMAUUPAS      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
24    COMPUMAGNA SA_ OE C V                            ASSEMBLY MARKETING MICROCOMPUTERS               DISTRrTO FEDERAL   METAL PROOUCTS    SMALL
25    COMPUTADORAS MICRON. SA. DE C V                                                                    GUANAJUATO     METAL PRODUCTS
28    CONDUCTORES MONTERREY. sKA DE C.V. VII           CONDJCTORES ELECTRICOS                            NUEVO LEON     METAL PROOUCTS      LARGE
27    CONSORCIO RIVE, S A. OE C V. I (AMPL).           HORTALIZAS POR HIDROPONIA                        OUINTANA ROO  FOO, BEVERAGE, TOB.   SMALL
28    CONSORCIO Y DESARROLLO TECNOLOGICO                                                                BAJA CALIFORNIA                    SMALL
29    CORPORACION BIOGENEnCA, S A. DE C.V.             CLAVEL Y ROSAS PARA EXPORTACION                     MEXICO     FOOD, BEVERAGE, TOE.   SMALL
30    CORPORACION DINAMICA INDUSTRIAL. S A. OE C.V.    RESORTES, MUEBLES PEOUENOS Y PINZAS               NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS      SMALL
31    CORPORACION TEXTlL LOR, S A. DE C V.             MAOUINARIA Y EOUJIPO                                PUEBLA           TEXTILES       SMALL
32    COSMOCEL s A.                                    R & D TECNOLOGIA QUIMICA                            MEXICO      OUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
33    CRISTAMEL, S.A. OE C V.                                                                              JALISCO    FOO0, BEVERAGE, TOO.  MEDIUM
34    CUPROQUIM, S.A. OE C V. I (AMPL)                 HIDROXIDO OE COBRE                                 CHIHUAHUA    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
35    CUPROOUIM, SA. OE C.V. III                       PLAGUICDAS                                          MEXICO      OUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
38    CUPRUM, S.A, OE C V.                             PERFILES DE ALUMINIO Y PRODUCTOS ENSAMBLADOS      NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
37    DATANET SOFTWARE, S.A. OE C V.                   R & D, EMPAQ. Y COMERCIALIZACION DE SOFTWARE        MEXICO         AUTOMOBILE        SMALL
38    DESARROLLO E INVESTIGACION, S A                  INTRS. ELECTRONICOS OE MEDC Y CONTROL INDUSTRIAL  SAN LUIS POTOSI OTHER MANUFACTURING   SMALL
39    DESARROLLO EMPRESARIAL TECNOLOGICO               ELECTRONIC RESEARCH                             DSTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PROOUCTS     SMALL
40    DESARROLLO TEC. EN ELECT. S.A. E C.V N (AMPL)    SISTEMAS OE CONTROL OE DATOS                       CHIHUAHUA     METAL PRODUCTS      LARGE
41    DESARROLLO Y CONSTRUCCION MEC. S.A. OE C.V. I    TRACTOCAMION OE 4 EJES                          DSTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
42    DESARROLLO Y PROCESOS OUIMICOS, SA I (AMPL)      R & D TECNOLOGIA PERSULFATO DE AMONIACO Y POTASIO   MEXICO      QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
43    DESARROLLO Y PROCESOS OUIMICOS, SA. II           R & D TECNOLOGIA PERSULFATO DE AMONIACO Y POTASIO  OUERETARO    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
44    DIGITAL DATA OE MEXICO, s A DE CV.               MINI Y MICROCOMPUTADORAS Y EGUIPO PERIFERICO     BAJA CALIFORNIA    METAL PRODUCTS   SMALL
45    DIPLATEC, S A. OE C V.                           R & D TECNOLOGIA POUPROPILENO                     NUEVO LEON    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
46    DIRIGIR DISTRIB Y REP INDUSTRIALES, S.A. DE C.V                                                     COAHUILA
47    ECISA CONSTRUCCIONES, S A 11                     PROTOTIPO DE GRUAS                                  MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS      SMALL
48    EDUCACION Y TRANSFERENCIA OE TEC. S. A. DE C. V.  R & D, EMPAD. Y COMERC. DE SOFTWARE EDUCATIVO  DISTRrrO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
49    EL CAMARON DORADO S.A.                           AOUACULTURE                                        SONOTRA        FOOD PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
50    ELECTRONICA Y COMUNICACIONES S.A.                TECNOLOGIA DE MODEMS                              NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS      SMALL
51    ELECTRODUIMICA MEXICANA, S.A OE C.V.             DUIMICOS INDUSTRIALES                               JALSCO      aUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
52    ENSAMB DE PROD. AUTOMOTRICES JIMAL. S.A. I (A)-II  AUTOBLS DE DOS PISOS                            NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS      SMALL
53    ENZYMOLOGA, S.A. DE C V. I                       PRODUCTOS OUIMICOS, BIOLOGICOS Y BIOOUIMICOS      NUEVO LEON    OUEMICAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
54    ESOUIM. S A. DE C.V IV                           ESPECLALIDADES DUIMACAS                            MORELOS      auEMICAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
5S    EXYCOLOR, S.A. DE CV.                            PlIGMENTOS PARA USO INDUSTRIAL                     COAHUILA     auEMICAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
5s    FABFICACION DE MAOUINAS, S.A. X                  MAOUINARIA Y EOUIPO                               NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS      LARGE
57    FABRICACIONES BARCENAS, S.A. DE C.V. I           PANELES OE CONCRETO PCASAS PRECONSTRUIDAS          COAHUILA       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
So    FABRICACIONES INDUSTRtALES TUMEX, S A OE C V     TUBERIA DE ACERO AL CARBON                          MEXICO         BASIC METALS     MEDIUM
s9    FALITE. S A. OE C.V                              PRODUCTOS INDUSTRIALES                          DISTRrrO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    SMALL



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART IN
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747- ME)
VI. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ENTERPRISES FINANCED
SEQUENCE                                                                                                                                    ENTERPRISE
NUMAER                     NAME OF FtRM                               PRODUCT RESEARCH TYPE                 LOCATION          SECTOR         SZE
s0    FARMOGUMCOS DE JUTEPEC, S A DE C.V               NILIDRNA, PROGLUMIDA                               MORELOS      LUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
el    FEBRONIO CHAVARRIA FERNANDEZ                     MATERIAL CONSTRUCCION MULTIPLE                    NUEVO LEON       AUTOMOBILE       MICRO
82    FERRONUCLEOS S.A De C.V. I                       UAMES DE FERRITA, BARRAS DE FEFRONtOUEL         AGUASCALENTES NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
63    FLAMENTOS MEXICANOS, S.A. De C.V                                                                     MEXICO                          MEDIUM
84    FILTRATION SYSTEMS De MEXICO, S.A DE c.V         NEW FILTER SYSTEMS                              DlSTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
es    FOCOS. S.A. N                                    LAMPARAS ELECTRICAS                               NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
e6    FRAISA BURHER, S A. DE C.V. I (AMPL)             ECONOMZADOR DE GASOLINA                            DURANGO       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
I7    FUNOIORA FALMEXS.A I                             R & D TECNOLOGICO EN FUNDCNoNES                     MEXICO        BASIC METALS      MEDIUM
s    G.H.M. PAPEL, S.A. I                              DISEN0, FAB.,REP.,INST. DE MAUNARIA                 MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
09    GARZA SERVICOS. S.A DE C.V                       ASESORIA TECNA, INST. Y MANTTO. DE COMPUTADORAS   GUANAJUATO       AUTOMObl         SMALL
70    GRUPO PYOSA, SA.                                 PAINTSPIGMENTS                                    NUEVO LEON    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
71    HIRLON, S.A. De CV. I                                                                            DlSTFrTO FEDERAL  QUEMICAL PRODUCTS   MEDIUM
72    HIRLON, S.A. De C.V. H (AMP)                                                                     DSTRITO FEDERAL  QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    MEDIUM
73    HULTECNICA S.A,                                  CONTENEDORES                                        MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
74    HYLSA, S.A. DE CV. V                             R A D DE TECNOLOGLA FIERRO ESPONJA                NUEVO LEON       BASIC METALS     LARGE
75   IN4CUBADORA De EMPRESAS CON BASE TECNOLOGICA
76    IOUSTRALZADORA RIVATECNO, S.A. De C V. (AMPL)    NOUSTRAJLIZADORA De PRODUCTOS AGRICOLAS         SAN LUtS POTOSI FOOD. BEVERAGE. TOB.   SMALL
77   INDUSTRtAS ALCOSA, SA. De C.V. I                  PIGMENTO FASE uLlDA PARA CARNE DE POLLO Y HUEVO   GUANAJUATO   FOOD, BEVERAGe, TOB.   SMALL
78   INDUSTRIAS APASEO, S A. N                         MINICABLES Y CONOUCTORES ESPECIALES                 MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
79   INDUSTRIAS BAGO, S.A. DE C.V. 1l-B (AMPL)         BRIDUETA SINTERIZADA De ACERO Y HERRO GRIS        NUEVO LEON       BASIC METALS     SMALL
s0   INDUSTRIAS De TELECOMUNICAClON, S.A. DE CV 1I     EOLUPOS TELEFONCOS                                  MEXICO     OTHER MANUFACTURING   LARGE
81   INDUSTRIAS HERDEL, S.A De C.V I (AMPL.)           RECTtFICADOR Y PRESURIZADOR De PUREZA De OXIGENO    MEXICO      QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
82    I4DUStTR  IElM, S.A. DE C.V. H                                                                       MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
o               83   INCUSTRIAS POLUH SA DE C.V. tV                    HL O DE POUFROPLEO                                  TLAXCALA         TEXTILES        LARGE
1}              84   INDUSTRIAS QUIMICAS STEFFANI, S.A. De C V.        TINTAS OFFSET FLEXO P1LA INDS. GRAFICA               PUEBLA      QUEMrCAL PRODUCTS    MEDIUM
8s   INDUSTRIAS RESSTOL, S.F XI                        POLUSTIRENO CRISTAL Y MOOFICADO                     MEXICO      OUEH.CAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
86   INDUSTRIAS RESISTOL. S.A. XI                      R & D RECNOLOGICO RESNS                            TLAXCALA     OUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
87   INFORMATICA FRAPASA, S.A. oe C V                                                                     SONOTRA       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
88   ING. HECTOR RUIZ VERAZA                                                                           DSTRrTO FEDERAL    AU6TOMOLE
8o   INGEN. Y DESf TELECOM. Y ELECTR., S A C V. HI     R & D TECNOLOGICO TELECOMUNICACIONES                MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
90   INGENIERIA Y PROCESOS, S-. DE C V                 ECAAPOS COLECTORES                                  MEXICO       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
91   INSTRUMED DE MEXICO, SAL DE C V l Y I (AMPL)      EQLsPO MEDICO AUIRURGICO                        DSTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
92   INTERNACIONAL DE ALEAENTOS PROCES., S A DE C.V    FOOD DEHIDRATION                                  QUERETARO   FOOD, BEVERAGE, TOB.   MEDIUM
93   INVESTIG.Y DESARR.TECNOLOG.RANDTEC, S A DE C.V                                                      GUANAJUATO     METAL PRODUCTS      MICRO
94    JAR ELECTRONICA APUCADA, S.AA De CV.             DISEN,o FAB. E INST. DE CONTROLES COMPUTAREADOS   NUEVO LEON     METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
95    LABORATORIOS BIOQUIMEM S.A DE C.VL               PRODUCTOS BKODUICOS PARA LA ALIMENTACION          QUERETARO    FOOD, BEVERAGE, TOB.   LARGE
96    LABORATORIOS SENOSHAN SA, DE C V. H              CLORHIORATO De RAnTIDINA                          GUANAJUATO    OUEMrCAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
97    LANCA SERVICIOS Y PRODUCTOS                                                                          COUMA                           SMALL
96    MAC ELECTRONICA, S.. De C.V. I                   R & D TECNOLOGICO DE RADIO RECEPOON               MICI-IOACAN    METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
99    MANUFACTURERA 3M De MEXICO, SFA                  MAGUINAR"A PESADA PARA CONSTRUCCION                VERACRUZ      METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
100    MANUFACTURERA HORUS, S A DE C.V.                ZAPATILLA DE PISO ENTREFINO PARA DAMA               JAUSCO           TEXTLES        MEDIUM
101    MAQUINARIA ERIS, S.A. De C.V.                   MACHINERY                                       DSTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
102    MAQUINARLA Y EOUSIO RISENSA                     MACHINERY DEVELOPMENT                           DISTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    MICRO
103    MAQutINAS Y HERRAMIENTAS URREA, S A De C.V                                                          JAUSCO        METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
104    MARYAL DE MEXICO, SA. DE C V                    FOOD DERIVATIVES FROM ALGAE                       TAMAULIPAS      FOOD PRODUCTS      SMALL
105   MERCADOS TECNICOS ESPECLALZADOS. S A.            ESTUDIaS DE FACTBJDOAO                              HIDALGO    AUTOMOBLE.FOOO, BEVE  SMALL
106    MEXALTEC, S.A. De C.V.                                                                              JALUSCO       METAL PRODUCTS    MEDIUM
107    MEXKCANA De ELECTRONICA INDUSTRIAL, S A. DE C V.  FABRCACION DE DETECTORES                      DISTRfrO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
108    MEXIESTANO. S.A- DE CV.                         CRISTALES SECOS De SLILFATO ESTANOSO             SAN LUtS POTOSt NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
109    MICROCOMPUTADORAS PARA TODOS, S  ORDE C.V I     MICROCOMPUTADORAS PC-AT                             JALUSCO       METAL PROOUCTS     SMALL
110    MINAS OE BACIS, S.A- DE C.V                     ORO Y PLATA, USO DE TECNOLOGIA                     DURANGO         BASIC METALS     MEDIUM
111    MINERALES Y MATERIALES NO.,S.A. DE C.V I (AMPL)  DOLOMITA CALCINADA                               NUEVO LEON   NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
112    MULTYPANEL, SA. DE C.V. I                       R&DTECNOLOGICO DEPANELES                          NUEVO LEON   NON-METALUC MIERALS  MEDUM
113   NACIONAL DE CONOUCTORES ELECTRICOS. S.A. OR C.V  SISTEMAS AISLANTES, CABLES                     DaSTRtTO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
114   NAHOUL Y ASOCtADOS, S.C.                         DESPACHO Oe CONSULTORES                            COAHULA        METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
115   NAVA HERMANOS, S.A.                              MAOUNAS Y HERRAMIENTAS                            NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
116   NEGOCIACION MINERA STA MA DE LA PAZ Y ANEXAS,S A  EXTRACCION MINERA                               SAN LUIS POTOSI                     LARGE
117   NEGRO DE HUMO NEGROMEX S.A. DE C.V. H            NEGRO OR HUMO                                     GUANAJUATO     UEMEcAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
118   NEMAK S.A. I                                     PIEZAS FUNDIDAS AUTOMOTRICES                      NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
119   ORGANZACION PONCE ELECTRONICA, SA. oe C.V.       R & D TECNOLOGICO Oe CALENTADORES OE AGUA       DsTRtTO FEDERAL                      SMALL
120   PELCER, S A. I                                   ADMTVO ALUMENTICIO                                  HIDALGO     FOOD. BEVERAGE, TOB   MEDIUM



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747- ME)
VI. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF ENTERPRISES FINANCED
SEQUENCE                                                                                                                                        ENTERPRISE
NUMBER                      NAME OF FIRM                                PRODUCT RESEARCH TYPE                  LOCATION          SECTOR           SIE
121    PERFEK s.A. DE C.V.                              ASIMILACION DE TECNOLOGIA DE DISENO                 NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
122   PLANTA RECUPERACION DE SULFATO DE ALUMINIO         DEVELOP PILOT PLANT                              DiSTRITO FEDERAL  QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
123    PLASTIGLAS DE MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V                LAMINAS DE ACRILICO                                   MEXICO      QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
124    PORCINAS DE TECNOLOGIA AVANZADA, S.A. DE CV.     FOOD PACKING                                         SONOTRA         AUTOMOBILE        SMALL
125    PRODUCTORA MEXICANA DE MAQUINARIA CONSTRUCCION,                                                        JALISCO       METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
128    PRODUCTOS CONGELADOS DEL HUMAYA, S.A. DE C.V.                                                          SINALOA     FOOD, BEVERAGE, TOB.   SMALL
127    PROLEC, S.A. VII                                 TRAMPAS DE ONDA                                     NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
128    PROTEXA, S.A. DEC.V.                             SELLADORES AUTOMOTRICES                             NUEVO LEON    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
129   PROTHERM DE MEXICO FABRICACION, S.A. E CCV.       GUALrTY CONTROL PROGRAM                               MEXICO        METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
130    PULSOS, S.A. DE C.V.                                                                                 GUANAJUATO      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
131    PULVYMETALURGIA S.A
132    QUlIMICA ACRILAMINADA S.A
133    OUIMICA AGRONOMICA DE MEXICO S. DE R.L                                                               CHIHUAHUA    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
134    QUIMICA FORTEK, S A.                             R & D TECNOLOGIA EN SOLVENTES P/NEUTRALZAR PCB'S    CHIHUAHUA    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
135    QUIMO REACCIONES, S A.                           POLIACRILATO DE SODIO DE BAJO PESO                  NUEVO LEON    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
138    RECONSTRUCCIONES AUTOMOT. PUEBLA, SA. DE C.V      DISCOS DE FRICCION                                   PUEBLA        METAL PRODUCTS     MEDIUM
137   SALVADOR IGNACIO REDING VIDAWA                    MANAGEMENT INFO. SYSTEMS                            NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
138    SERLEC, S.A. E C V.                              SERVICIOS CORPORATIVOS DEL GRUPO INDUSTRIAS AXA     NUEVO LEON       AUTOMOBILE        SMALL
139    SERVICIOS Y PROYECTOS EN SISTEMAS, S.A. DE C.V                                                     DISTRITO FEDERAL   AUTOMOBILE        SMALL
140    SIDETEC ELECTRONICA S-A. DE C V.                 SIMULADORES Y SISTEMAS DE CONTROL                    MORELOS        METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
141    SINTESIS QUIMICA, S A. DE CV. I                  JABONES Y DETERGENTES                               NUEVO LEON    QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
142   SISCOM DE MEXICO, S.A DE CCV                                                                           MORELOS         AUTOMOBILE        SMALL
143    SISTEMAS CASANDRA, S.A. DE C-V                   PROGRAMAS Y SISTEMAS DE COMPUTO                   DISTRITO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
144    SISTEMAS COMPUTACIONALES AVANZADOS, S A, I (AMPL)  R & D TECNOLOGICO EN CONTROL                      NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
145    SISTEMAS ELECTRONICOS DEL NAZAS, SA. DE C.V      CIRCUITOS IMPRESOS                                   COAHUILA       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
148    SPACIAL, S.A. 1I                                 VEHICULO MAS LIGERO QUE EL AIRE                      MORELOS        METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
t               147   SVIROPO MEXrCANA, SA. DE C.V.                                                                         GUANAJUATO      METAL PRODUCTS      SMALL
in             148   TECHNOLOGIA EN DESARROLLO DE SISTEMAS SA.
149   TECKNO, S. A. I                                   SEPARACION DE FLUIDOS                               NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
150   TECNICA RECUPERADORA. s A. DE C.V. I              RECUPERACION DE ARENA                               NUEVO LEON   NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
151    TECNICA RECUPERADORA, SA. DE C.V. I (AMPL.)      ESCALACION INDUSTRIAL DE TECNOLOGIA DE PROCESO      NUEVO LEON   NON-METALLIC MINERALS  SMALL
152   TECNOELECTRONICA IND. DE INNOVACION I             COMERCIALIZACION DE MINICOMPUTADORAS                CHIHUAHUA       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
153   TECNOFIRSA, S A DE C.V.                           DESARRROLLO DE TECNOLOGIA                         DISTRrTO FEDERAL  QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    LARGE
154   TECNOLOGIA ACUICOLA DEL GOLFO DE CORTES, S C L                                                         SONOTRA    FOOD, BEVERAGE, TOB.   SMALL
155   TECNOR ELECTRONICA Y CONTROL, S.A.DE C.V.         PRODUCTOS DE ELECTRONICA                            NUEVOLEON       METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
158   TECNOSOFT, SA. DE C V.                                                                                  MEXICO     OTHER MANUFACTURING   SMALL
157   TERMOSOLAR, S A DE C.V.                           ARTICULOS Y MUEBLES DE FIBRA DE VIDRIO                MEXICO                           SMALL
158   TEVESCOM, S.A DE CV.                              REMOTE BROADCASTING SERVICES                      DtSTRrTO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    MEDIUM
159   TRAILERS DE MONTERREY, SA.                        REMOLOS TRACTOCAMS ,CAMS.PESADOS,DOLLYS,AUTOBUS     NUEVO LEON      METAL PRODUCTS     LARGE
10e   ULTRA COLD FOODS SA.                              FOOD PROCESSING
181    URREA HERRAMIENTAS PROFESIONALES, S A. DE C V.                                                         JALISCO                          LARGE
162    VAESA DE MEXICO, S.A. DE CCV. I                  VALVULAS, TUBOS Y CONEXIONES                          MEXICO      QUEMICAL PRODUCTS    MEDIUM
1e3    VALVULAS JET, SA- DE CV. 1I                      VALVULAS                                             MORELOS        METAL PRODUCTS     SMALL
184    VIDEO CARTEL, S.A. DE C.V. I                     IMAGENES ELECTRONICAS                             DISTRrTO FEDERAL   METAL PRODUCTS    SMALL
185   ZINALCO EXTRUSIONES, S.A. DE C V                  FUNDICION DE ALEACIONES DE ALUMINIO               DISTRrTO FEDERAL                     MEDIUM



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(loan 2747-ME)
VlI. SUBPROJECTS WITH NAFIN GUARANTEES
GUARANTEE PAYMENTS MADE
IBRD                       AVERAGE
IRD          NAFIN                                                                            SUBPROJECT       DISBURSED        AMOUNT    EXCHANGE            AMOUNT                  RECOVERED  PERCENT
SEQUENCE  SUBPROJECT  CONTRACT                  FINANCIAL                                          ENTERPRIS         COST           AMOUNT            PAID          RATE           PAIO      DATE  OF    AMOUNT           OF LOAN
NUMBER        NUMBER          NUMBER         INTERMEDIARY                NAME OF FIRM                SIZE           (USS)           (USS)       (maxS million) (maxS$usS)   (uss nsn)   PAYMENT            (M4X S)      COVERED
I          1CA-2          007-T322          BANCOUER         DATANET SOFTWARE, SA DE C V        SMALL                         $427,204 00        3000          3070           0.98        OCT-92         0 00          NA
2          1CB-004        424-Ti77         BANCRESER         DESARROLLOYCONSTRUCCIONMEC    SMALL                              S158.52100         1525          2273           067        D0-88 R020                    NA
3          iCe-COG        210-T182    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX AMERICANWHEELSDEMEXICO,.I              MEDIUM                        586,28200          9536           3070          031         ENE-92         000           NA
4          1CR-COg        017-T214    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  CORPORACIONTEXTILLOR,SADEC    SMALL                                 $57,11290          5315          2261           024         SEP-89        900            NA
5          ICB-C11        007-T229          BANCOMER         ALIMENTOSULTRAMAR,SADECV. I    SMALL                             S29,109900          0                            -                          -             90
6          1CB-012        210-T259    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX FRAISABURHER, SA DECV I(AMPL)    SMALL                               S50,63500          2994          2261           013         MAR-89         000           NA
7          ICB-13         009-T271        BANCASERFIN        CENTROAGROINDUSTRLAL.SADEC          SMALL                        S51,073900          0                            -                                         o-  9
8          ICS-014        017-T308    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  CORPORACION TEXTIL LOR, SA DEC    SMALL                             S29,34400          1331           2261          006         SEP-89         000           NA
9          ICB-017        210-T363    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX EDUCACIONYTRANSFERENCIADETE    SMALL                                 5149.03898          0                            -                          -             50
10         ICB-021         210-T407    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX  EDUCACIONYTRANSFERENCLADETE    SMALL                               S148,9888X           0                            -            -            -             70
11         IRA-001         014-T139   BANCOMEXICANOSOMEX HYLSASADECV IV                          LARGE       51.337.0579      5727.53898           0                            -            -            -             90
12         IRA-2           010-T153         BANCOBCH        GOHM  PAPEL.SA I                    MEDIUM        S689,47698      5200,851X8           0                            -9
13         1RA003          017-T179    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  CLAFUNDIDORADELNORTE.SAIV(    LARGE               S4.159.73498    S1,494,064,98         0                            -            -            -             90
14         1RA-006         210-T201    MULTIBAANOCOMERMEX MOTOCICLETASCARABELASADEC    LARGE                 S1.527.536W      S486,94498        82082           3070          267          FEB-92        098            NA
15         IRA-010         99-T239         BANCASERFIN       HYLSA SADECV V                      LARGE       51.811.927X0     $771,128X            0                                                      -             90
16         IRA-C20         07-T438          BANCOMER         TEVESCOM,SADECV                     SMALL       51.272,240X     S1,017,792X8          0                                                                    50
17         1RS-001         017-T140    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  INGENIERIAYPROCESOS,SA DECV    SMALL               S409.093X       S147,0039            5 0                                                                  90
18         IRBS-06         253-T144          BANPAIS         ECISACONSTRUCCIONES SAIl            SMALL        S169,429 98      S38.9X898           0                            -            -            -             90
19         iRB-016         99-T159         BANCASERFIN       MINERALESYMATERALESIND,SAD          SMALL        5178.982.00     5198.9X99          10653          3020          035         ABR-91         098            NA
20         IRB-016         424-T161         BANCRESER        AMERICAN WHEELS DE MEXICO, I       MEDIUM        S149,531X        573,25698           0                            -                          -            90
*    21          IRB-017         210-1162    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX SPACIAL,SAIl                           SMALL        S63.4065.        529,21298           0                            -            -            -             90
c-     22          IRS-22         023-TIS           BANAMEX          MACELECTRONICASADECV I             MEDIUM       S202.6910        572.81498         4716           2821           017         ABR-90         098           NA
23         1RE-024         253-T170          BANPAJS         SISTEMAS COMP AVANZADOS, SAI(    SMALL           S144,185X8       S51.786X8           0                                                                     o-  -  9
24         1RB-026         009-T173        BANCASERFIN       FABRCACIONDEMAOUINAS, SAX           LARGE        S504,574X0      S176.198X8           0                                                                    g9
25         1RB.028         023-T175          BANIAMEX        CONSORCIORIVE, SADECV I             SMALL        S37,123X         S11,702X8           0                            -            -             -            90
26         1RB-9           285-T176   BANCO MERC DEL NORTE FASRICACIONES BARCENAS, SA DEC    SMALL            S31,9268         S11,472.98        555           3020          0.02        OCT-91         0X98           NA
27         IRB-00          X9-Tl83         BANCASERFIN       FOCOS, SAII                         LARGE        S503,386X       5129,725X9           0                            -            -             -            NA
28         iRSB31          010-TI4          BfANCOBCH        MEXICANADEELECTRONICAINDUST         SMALL        S163,192X        S46,534X8         1964           2621          0.07         DIC-90        098            NA
29         1RB-032         017-T185    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  ANALISISYSERVS DEPROD MINERA    SMALL               57,27689        S2,61598           77            1378          001          SEP-87        0.98           NA
30         IRS-33          210-T187    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX ORGAN2ACIONPONCEELECTRONIC             SMALL        S16,619X         S6,374X8           205                                 -                    -            NA
31         1 RB-034        424-T190         BANCRESER        INSTRUMED DE MEXICO, SA DE C V I   SMALL         S152.78090       S40.89 X9         2767           3020          0 09         JUN-91        0.9            NA
32         iRB-OSS         424-T193         BANCRESER        INDUSTRLASPOLIFIL,SADECV IV         LARGE        S70.50898        529,677X8           0                            -                                       90
33         IRBS36          210-T192    MULTIBANCO COMERMEX PYOSA SA DE CV III                    LARGE        5832,34598      S244,23998           0                                                                    90
34         1RB-037         010-T202         BANCOBCH         GHM PAPEL,SAI(1A.AMPL)             MEDIUM        1360,919X       5156.14798           0                                                                    90
35         1 RB4-43        424-T209         BANCRESER        SISTEMAS ELECTRONICOS DEL NAZA    SMALL          S47,514X8        S26.04598           0                            -                         -             90
36         1R1C04          010-1686         aANCOOBCH        VALVULASJET,SADECV II               SMALL        569.22498        517.851X8         2009           3070          007          FEB-92        098           NA
37         1RS-046         009-T211       BtANCASERFIN       SISTEMASCASANDRA, SA DECV           SMALL        579,227 98       538.379X8         1626           2262          007          FEB-89        098            NA
38         iRB-44          023-T206          BANAMEX         MICROCOMPUTADORASPARATODOS    SMALL              S51,332 98       523,864X8         151 1          2821          005         JUN-90         098            NA
39         1RE-C47         023-T204          BANAMEX         ESOUIM,SA DECV IV                  MEDIUM        S1X8,160X9       $48,426X8           0                                                                     o-  -  9
40         1RBSO48         210-T217    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX LABORATORIOS SENOSLJN, SA DEC    LARGE              S505.95698      S121,07500           0                            -            -            -             90
4          1iRS-CEO        014-T228   BANCO MEXICANO SOMEX INDUSTRLAS ALCOSA, SA DE C V I (A    SMALL         s5,878 X0        S29,4408            0 o                                                                   0
42         1RB-061         023-T224          BANAMEX         CONSORCIO RVE. SA DECV I (AMPL   SMALL           S33.085X         S10.887 98          0 o9
43         1RB4-02         210-T240    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX RECONSTRUC AUTOMOT PUEBLAS    MEDIUM                                 S23,334X8           0 o                                                                  90
44         IRBS0-3         010-T235         BANCOBCH         G H-M PAPEL.SAI(2AAMPL)            MEDIUM        S402,89698      5175.8158            0                            -            -            -             90
45         1R-0ME          0X9-T226        BANCA SERFIN      NEMAK S A ll                        LARGE        S70,619 X        S22.630X8           0                                                                     0
46         IRS-066         253-T230          BANPAIS         ECISACONSTRUCCIONES, SAIl (AMP    SMALL          542.125 98       510,66698           0                                                                     o-  -  9
47         1RSO4           424-T250         BANCRESER        INSTRUMED DE MEXICO, SA DECV II  SMALL           S60,14498        532.58500         195 9          3021          006          JUN-91        0.98           NA
48         1 RB-62         210-T246    MULTIBANCO COMERMEX SINTESIS QUIMICA SA DE C V I          SMALL        S21.4740        5 10,92598           0                            -                          -            NA
49         1 RS-063        210-T251    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX AMERICAN WHEELS DE MEXICO, I (AM    MEDIUM          S54,89 9         130,638 X         218 7          3070          0 07         ENE-92        0 9            NA
50         1 RS-06C4       07-T258          BANCOMER         TECNICA RECUPERADORA SA DE C        SMALL        5263,042 X8     $147,230 9         493 5          3020          016         AGO-91         0 9            NA
51         1RB0-65         X98T249         BANCASERFIN       CELULOSADECHIHUAHUA SA DEC          LARGE        015.07298        S6,54298            0                            - o-                                    9
52         1RB-C66         X99-T275        BANCASERFIN       CELULOSA DE CHtHUAHUA SA DE C    LARGE           S54,428           S28 594 X                                                   -            -90
53         1RB-067         010-T266         BANCO3CH         GHM PAPEL,SA 1(3AAMPL)             MEDIUM        0293.9288       5162,77798           0                                                      -9



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(loan 2747-ME)
VlI. SUBPROJECTS WTH NAFIN GUARANTEES
GUARANTEE PAYMENTS MADE
IBRO                        AVERAGE
IBRD           NAFIN                                                                                SUBPROJECT        DIS9URSED        AMOUNT        EXCHANGE         AMO1UNT                  RECOVERED   PERCENT
SEOUENCE   SUBPROJECT   CONTRACT                   FINANCIAL                                            ENTERPRIS          COST           AMOUNT             PAID           RATE           PAID       DATE  OF    AHMOUNT           OF LOAN
NUMBER         NUMBER          NUMBER          INTERMEDIARY                  NAME OF FIRM                 SIZE           (US$)            (USS)       onexS mIilIloe)  (m.xSIusS)    (US$rmaw)   PAYMENT             (MEXS)       COVERED
U5          IRA-G           014-T257    BANCOMEXICANOSOMEX EXYCOLOR,SADEC.V                          MEDIUM        5233,87100       $107219.00           C                              -             -
10          1 RB-069          23-T255          BANAMEX          DESARROLLO TEC. EN ELECT SA DE    LARGE            1107,37500        S61,21500           0                              -             -             -
Y.          1 RB-,070       023-T282           BANAMEX          DESARROLLO TEC EN ELECT. SA DE    LARGE             $400,oo00         2,12.00            0                                            , 2                          0
f -         IRB-071         007-T262          aANCOMER          ALIMENTOS ULTRAbtAR, SA DE CV I (   SMALL           $7,01400         $3U,6 00            0 o0
F           i RB-O72        014-T260    BANCO MEXICANO SOMEX CERAMICA EXY, SA DEC V                   SMALL        5100.070.00       530.78400           o                                     -                    -             90
IRB-074         01-T270           BANCOflCH         CIRCULOINCUSTRLAL,SADECV.I           SMALL         $210,783.00      S117.875DO         7508            3020           025         MAR-91          000            NA
f-          1RB-C76         210-T277    MULTIBANCO COMERMEX  MERCADOS TECNICOS ESPECLALIZAD    SMALL                S36,21200        520278,00           0 o                                          - 
f I         IRB-077         210-T2b8    MULTIBANCO COMERMEX  PROTEXA SA CE C V                        LARGE        $109,601 00      s50.96900            0                              -                           -             90
fU          IRRBA-          216-T272         aANCACREMI         ZINALCOEXTRUSIONES.SA DECV           MEDIUM         18,708 00        847,95200          2556           3070            0.08        ABR-92          000            NA
07         IRA-G1          017-T280    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  NAHOULYASOCLADOS, SC                      SMALL         s6,960c00        13.8800              0                                           -             -              s0
f           I RB4-s2        017-FI20     aANCO INTERNACIONAL  CIFUNS- ISA DE C.V.                     LARGE        S660.79600       $308,73300           0                                                                        NA
f              11R-083      009-T2n3         8ANCA SERFIN       PRODUCTORA MEXICANA DE MAaUIN    MEDIUM             s27,54a00 o15.421,00                                                              -                           NA
8           1 RB-OGa        023-F149           aANAMAEX         LANrCA SERVCIOS Y PRODUCTOS           SMALL         $10960 00        s238000              0                             -             -             -             NA
V -         I RB-086        023-T305           SANAtMEX         DESARROLLO TEC EN ELECT SA DE    LARGE               10,960 00       $6,138 00           0                                            -0
M0          I Ra-G?         023T304            BANAMEX          DESARROLLO TEC EN ELECT SA DE    LARGE              163,40400 o34.03100                   0                             -             -0
69         1RBA-C          o23-T291           BANAREX          MACELECTRONICA SA DECV II(AM    MEDIUM             1380,22700       $179,372.00         8793           2821            024        AMR-SO          0o0             NA
-          I1RB-G         C023-T294           bANAbtEX         BENEFICIADORES Y EXPORT DE CAFE    LARGE             86s,01500       53b,40000          102.5          3020            003         NOV-81          000            NA
I RS-so         28-T296    HANCOM MERC DEL NORTE ENZYMOtLOGA SA DE CV I                  MEDIUM        8218.947.00 o     457.96 00           0                             -                           -             NA
IRB4-S4         215-T307         aANCACREMI         CLA,GRAL DE ELECTRONICA, SA DE    MEDIUM           $320,473 00      1154.824 00          0                             -0
7           1RS-s6          210-T300    MULTIHANCOCOMERMEX  PYOSASA DECV V                            LARGE         861,797 00      $476f108 00                                         -                                          50
74         1I RS-0e7        007-T325          aANCOMER          GARZA SERVICIOS, SA DE C V            SMALL         145.83100        525.665 00          0 o                                                                      s0
7'          1 RB-Ge         ODS-T292         BANCA SERFIN       FOCOS, SA 9/ (AtPL)                   LARGE        1188,594.00       $3.o0 00             0                                           -0
_,       7[          1 RB-I01        006-T349        BANCA CONFIA        FARMOOUIMICOS DE JIUTEPEC, SA D    SMALL           120,481 00          820 00            0                             -                                          s0
'--     77           IR-I03         017-T333    BANCO INTERNACIONAL  CUIMO REACCIONES, SA                     SMALL       S1687600           s32.94200           0                                                                        s0
7L          1RB-1i07        OD-T348          8ANCASERFIN        FEBRONIO CHAVARRLA FERNANDEZ          MICRO         132.966,00       S1753000             0                             -                           -              c0
79          1RS-105        215-T345         aANCACREMI         FERRONUCLEOS,SADECV II                SMALL        1118.03000        $6456100            376           3020            012         JUN-91          000            NA
50          IRB-110         215-T346          BANCACREMI        FERRONUCLEOS,SADEC.V I                SMALL        1se.56300         146,36800          2875           3020            010         JUN-81          000            NA
81          IRS-111          007-T342          BANCOMER         MEXIESTAFE, SA DE C.V.                SMALL        s264,88300       1145.450 00           0                             -                           -             NA
82          lR-1R12         007-T335          BANCOMER          TECNKCARECUPERADORA SA DE C.    SMVALL             S151.409800       18334400           516.4          3020            0 17        AGO-9I          0 00           NA
V3          1RS-113         009-T308         sANCASERFIN         TECNOELECTRONICA IND DEINNOVA    SMALL            51U4,62700       $10266700             0                                                                         c-  9
84          1RS-114          oos-T337        BANCASERFIN         TECNOELECTRONICA IND DEINNOVA    SMALL             93M.12600        S20399 00            0                                                                        90
85          IRB-116          210-T318    MULTIsANCOCOMERMEX CORPORACIONCDNAMICAINDUSTRLA              SMAALL        s8s,66o00        149,263 00           0                             -0
86          1 RB-1 21        023-T327          BANAMEX          INDCUSTRLALZADORA RrVATECNO, SA    SMALL           S$1,738 00        S44862500            0                             -s
87          1RB-123          00-T334         BANCASERFIN         PERFEK SA DECV                       SMALL        S256,18300        $156,368800          0                             -                           -              90
88         1RB-1l26         210-T362    MULTlaANCOCOMERMEX MARYALDE MEXICOSA DECV                    SMALL         100,29700        931,56100          1907           3070            006         MAY-82          000            NA
88          1RB-129         02340063           BANAMEX          AMERCAN WHEELS DE MEXICO.I           MEDIUM        1112.25800        s63.5700             0                             - .                                       NA
90          1RB-130          023-T367          BANAMEX          AMERICAN WHEELSDE MEXICO, III         MEDIUM         61,576 00       136.010.00           0                                                                       NA
91          IRB-I31          2e5sT3bs   BANCOMERC DEL NORTE ACERTEKSADECV I                           MEDIUM       s206,570c00       120.65600            0                             -             -             -              so
92          1RB-I33         023-T343           BANAMEX          DESARROLLOEINVESTtGACtON, SA          SMALL         S68,681 00        19,63400            0                                                                        go
93          1RB-136          017-T379    aANC  INTERNACIONAL  JAR ELECTRONICAAPLICAKA. SA DE    SMALL              S316,00200        1168.45300           0                                           .             ,              S0
94          1RB-137          009-T380        BANCASERFIN        TRAILERSOE MONTERREY,SA               LARGE        9316.64800        S154,616 00          0                                                                        50
SS          1 RB-1i56       011-T401     aANCO DEL ATLANTICO  INTERNACIONAL DE ALIMENTOS PRO    MEDIUM              169,624 00        37,74 00            0                             .             ,                            7
96          1RS-158          009-T414        8ANCASERFIN         TECNOSOFT,SADECV                     SMALL        1201,70300        S112,53200           0                                                                        70
97          1RB-15B         0141382    8ANCO MEXICANO SOMEX HIRLON. SA DECV I                        MEDIUM        542,972 D0        24,72300            0                                                                        S00
98          1 RB-1 61        210-T432    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX SISCOM DE MEXICO. SA DE C V               SMALL        1500.4230c        SS9,26200            0                                           ,                           NA
99          1 R-1i 62        210-T431    MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX SISCOM DE MEXICO, SA DE C V               SMALL        S347.763,00       SS26100             0                                                                       NA
100          IRS-1I73         17-T419    8ANCOINTERNACK3NAL  CALIPO,SA DECV I                          SMALL        8123,39800        W,.74900            0                                            .                           70
101          IRB-174         017-T420    BANCOINTERNACfONAL  CALIPO.SADECV II                          SMALL        S133,26100       185.23700            0                                                                        7 .   07
102          1RB-175         017-T416    aANCOINTERNACIONAL  MEXALTEC,SADECV                          MEDIUM        M2,3,193C00       114.45600           0                                     -             -                    50
103          1RS-176         017-T415    BANCOINTERNACIONAL  MEXALTEC,SADECV                          MEDIUM        5185.19100       $103,914.00          0                              .                           ,             5
104          1RB-185         007-T458          BANCOMER          CRISTAMEL,SA DECV                    MEDIUM        S562,370.00      S312.63900           0                              --
105          1 RE-i 86       007-T49           BANCOMER          CRISTAMEL, SA DECV.                  MEDIUM        1830.992.00      S462,00700           0                                     .                    .
106          1RB-187         014-T442   8ANCOMEXICANOSOMEX SERVICIOSY PROYECTOS EN SISTEM              SMALL        1108.616 00       S49.5C600           0                              -             -             -             s



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT- PART III
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(loan 2747-ME)
VIl. SUBPROJECTS VITH NAFIN GUARANTEES
GUARANTEE PAYMENTS MADE
IRD                      AVERAGE
IBRD         NAFIN                                                                        SUsPROJECT      DiSURSED       AMOUNT    EXCHANGE    AMOUNT                        RECOVERED  PERCENT
SEQUENCE  SUBPROJECT  CONTRACT                FINANCIAL                                       ENTERPRIS        COST          AMOUNT           PAID         RATE          PAJD      DATE OF    AMOUNT          OF LOAN
NUMBER        NUMBER        NUMBER         INTERMEDIARY               NAME OF FIRM              SIZE          (USS)          (US$)      (mexS million) (maxS/usS$   (usS mCom)   PAYMENT        (MEX 5)     COVERED
107        IRB-188        010-T425        aANCCOBCH        GH.U PAPEL.SADECV.I(REST)        MEDIUM      5774,09600      $433,494.00        0                                                                 90
108        lRB-189        007-T405         BANCOMER        PULSOS, SA DE CV.                SMALL        $3458900       $19,051.00         0                                                    ,            90
109        IRB-201        014-T455   BANCOMEXJCANOSOMEX HIRLON,SA DECV II(AMPL)             MEDIUM      S176,593,00     597.92800          0                                                                 50
110        IRB-204        007-T467         BANCOMER        QUIMICA AGRONOMICA DMEX5CO S    SMALL        S105,0000         900o             0                          -                         -70
11         IRB-206        210-T319   MULTIBANCOCOMERMEX PELCER, SA I                        MEDIUM      $33079600       S264.63600         0                                                                 90
112        1RB-206                                         GRUPO IRSAsa
113        1RB-212                  BANAMEX                INVEST. DESARROLLO TEC RANDTEC
114        1RS-214                  EANCOMER               COMPUMAGNA SA
TOTALS                528.057,12100    $14152566000               TOTALPAID|    S73t
(US$S million
'c



MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT-PART 111
(Loa 2747-ME)
VIIL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUBPROJECTS
DISBURSED        PERCENT
AUTHORIZED          AMOUNT             OF
TYPE OF   SUBPROJECT   DATE                                                                                                        AMOUNT              (to dat)        TOTAL
SUBPROJEC   NUMBER   APPROVED                           NAME OF SUBPROJECr                      AGENCY/CONTRACTOR                       US5               USS
STUDIES       4-TA-01       3/07   FEAsIBmY STUDY- C0MEAR-TECHF CENTER                        CONSULTORIA INDUSTRIAL                        26264           26927.46
AND        4-TA-002       3/2WR7   FEASIBILTY STUDY- INEC-TECH CENTER                       PROA CONSTRUCTORES                         27729.64           27479.71
RESEARCH    4-TA-03           3/2047   FEASIBILITY STUDY- CIATEJ-TECH. CENTER                   BUFETE CONSULTORES OCCID                   17020.S7           17415.27
4-TA-004      312/07   FEASIBILTY STUDY- CIQUA D.F.-TECH CENTER                 TEXM S.A.                                   2267.44           2234.37
4-TA-005      3/20/37   FEASIBILITY STUDY- CIQUA SALT.-TECH CENTER              CONSULTORIA Y DISENO SIST.                  22179.36          22797.94
4-TA-006      312047   DESIGN TECHI CENTER PHARMAC. IND.                        BUFETE SEPULVEDA                             715.03             765.36
4-TA407       3/2047   FEASIBLTY STUDY-PHARMAC. ND. CENTER                      BUFETE INDUSTRIAL DISENO                    9204.32           10367.3S
4-TA-4S        3/4/S7    G.C.L GRAL DE CONSULTORIA IND., S.A.                   GENERAL CONSULT. INDUST.                     969.32             969.38
4-TA-009      1/144S7   INDUSTRIAL DIAGNOSTIC                                   DIAGNOSTICO INDUSTRIAL                         2949            1279.76
4-TA-010      1/14/27   STUDY OF "FIDEICOMISO' UNAM                                                                           53s59            35072.9
4-TA-11      1/144S7   METROLOGY SYSTEM STUDY                                  INFOTEC                                      225699           202000.5
4-TA-012      1/14/47    STUDY ON TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                        GRUPO CONSULTOR EJECUT.                      385547          291122.36
4-TA-039      4/17/91   FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR DPI                                ASESORES LIBRES EMPRESA                      99440          121126.47
4-TA-041      5/31/92   INTERMEDIATION POLCIES FOR TECHL DEVELOP.               GESTEC                                         9990            9934.21
4-TA-042      5/31/92   SUPPORT INSTRUM FOR TECH DEVELOP.                       GESTEC                                        29305           27839.33
4-TA-04       2/23/91    SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR CIENTIFIC DEVELOP.                 CONACYT                                       25000           11355.41
4-TA-448       /23/91    TECHNOLOGICAL EVALUATION                               IMIT                                           4000            3922.66
kn                           4-TA-01       9/11/91    DESIGN OF ENTERPRISE INCUBATOR CENTER                   TESM                                         25025           14946.06
tn                           4-TA-052      9/19/91   IMPROVEMENT OF QUALITY OF PATENTS AND BRANDS             SECOFI                                       36077                 0
4-TA-053      9/30/91    TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP. POLICIES FOR NUEVO LEON             TESM                                         37734           376F3.65
SUTOTAL                              $1,120,365.04       $969,600.18 22.1122629992
TRAINING    4-TA-013         1/14/27   WORLD BANK DISBURSEMENT SEMINARS                        IBRD                                           3600             349s.5
4-TA-014      1/1447   TRAINING FOR FONEI STAFF                                 VARIED                                       9552.21           7107.21
4-TA-015      1/144S7   WORLD BANK DISBURSEMENT SEMINARS                        IBRD                                          3213.5            3206.4
4-TA-040       5/7/92    FELLOWSHIP FOR TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT STUDY             UFAM                                           4210            4709.s2
4-TA-043      5/14/91   FELLOWSHIP FOR CORPORATE FINANCE STUDY                  ITAN                                           5409              4932
4-TA-047      5121/91   FELLOWSHIP FOR STUDY ON FINANCING IND. PROJECTS         UNIV. PANAMERICANA                           3973.77           3965.37
4-TA-45       9/11/91    APPRAISAL OF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP. PROJECTS SEMINAR   CENTRO INFORM TECNO.                              1236            1224.77
4-TA-45       10/30/91   BIOTECHNOLOGY CONGRESS                                  ASOC. MEX. BIOTECNOLOGIA                       130             130.6S
4-TA-4S       1/21/92   SEMINAR ON NEW COMPETMTON                               COLEGIO GRAD. ALTA DIREC.                     772.74            725.74
SUBTOTAL                                S32,703.S2        $30,261.15 2.74997721995
PROMOTIO    4-TA-038          6/03/91   SEMINAR ON rID                                          TEXNE S.A                                     35500           30090.93
4-TA-44       7/24/91   SEMINAR ON INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY                          VIAJES EVENTOS CULTURA S.A                   166036                 0
4-TA-045      7/24/91    EXPOTECHNOLOGY 1991                                    DIGRAF S.A.                                  249054                 0
4-TA-049      9/23/91   SEMINAR ON CONSuLTING SERVICES                          INFOTEFC                                       5362            5334.74
4-TA-054      1030/91   TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION PACKAGING                         S.RP. INTERNACIONAL                           7512            4605.27
4-TA-059      4120/92   CREATING ENIERPRISES WItH A TECHNOLOGY BASE              SERVICIOS EMPRESARIALES INFO.                681.36                0
SUBTOTAL                               $529,559.00       $100,553.24 9.13775971024
TOTAL                            S1,682,627.86   S1,100,414.57



- 56 -
MEXICO
PROJECT COMWIPLETION REPORT
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPIMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2747-NE)
LX. COMNIPLIANCE WIT COVENANTS
LOAN AGREEEN'T
SECTION 4.03       The Bor-ower shall. (i) have the Special Account for each fiscal  Complied, but with
vear audited in acco-dance with sourd auditP-. nrin.cinl-'       delays.
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the repor. of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; (iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special
Account: and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information
concer-ning the Special Account and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
PROJECT AGREEdENIT
SECTION 2.0'       (a) The Trus:ee undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise  Complied
agree, Technology Sub-loans, FONEI Grants, Equity Loans, an R
& D Investment Loans will be made on the basis of the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Schedule to this Agreemernt and the FONEI Operating Regulations
and the R & D Investment Loan Guidelines.
SECTION 2.03       The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992, or such later date as the    Closing Date
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower   extended to June 30,
and the Guarantor of such later date.                            1993.
SECTION 2.04(a)   The Trustee shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with   Complied
the Barnk with regard to the progress of Parts B (ii), D and E of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
SECTION            The Trustee shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition      Complied, except for
2.04(b)            which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the    the R&D Centers
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the  component
performance oy Ene Trustee of iLs obiigatuons uncer this
Agreement.
SECTION 2.05       The Trustee shall establish, not later than June 30, 1987, a system    Complied, but not
satisfactory to the Bank for the evaluation of the impact of     until after this date.
technology investments financed out of FONEI's resources.



- 57 -
SECTION 3.01        (a) The Trustee shall maintain records aad accounts adequate to     Complied but
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices FONEI's      separate accounts
operations and financial condition, including separate accounts    reflecting project's
reflecting FONEI's operations in connection with Parts B (ii), D   operations not kept.
and E of the Project.
(b) Tre Trustee shall:
6i) have the accounts referred to in (a) above and FONEI's         Complied.
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no  Complied, but not
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) a       always on time.
certified copy of such financial statements for such year da ,o    Deiay range rro.n  -
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such  5 months.
scope and in such detail as the Bank shal! have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said   Complied.
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof and
said records, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expendirures with respect for which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. the Trustee shall:
(i) maintai., in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,    Not complied.
separate records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain. until at least one year after the Bank has received the  Complied.
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, biUls, receitpts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures; and
(iii) ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual  Complied
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
revo" thereof contains in respect of such seoarate accounts, a
separate opinion by the said auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided.



- 58 -
SECTION 3.02      The Trustee shall: i) maintain records and separate accounts   Not complied.(This
adequate to reflect. in accordance with sound accounting practices,   was pointed out in
its operations in the area of technology development financing,  every audit report).
including separate accouwts reflecting (A) the amount of grants
made by the Trustee out of FONEI resources during the
immediately preceding year, and (B) the amount arising out of the
difference between the interest rate actually applied to the
Technology Sub-loans and the interest rate which would have been
applicable if such Technology Subloans had been made at the
interest rate provided for in the General Interest Rate Agreement
for FONEI loans for the acquisition of industrial equipment and
(U) hraish to the Bank annual statements of said accounts and all
such other information concerning said accounts as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
SECTION 3.03       The Bank and the Trustee shall from  time to time, at the request  Complied.
of either party exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the administration and operations of FONEI, and the
Trustee shall, through the Borrower, furnish to the Bank all such
information as the BanLk shall reasonably request concerning
FONEI's administration and operations.   >
1', I                                                                                                  II



- 59 -
X. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
(in Staffweeks)
Final
Through Appraisal                               108.9
Appraisal Through Board Approval                 42.4
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                0
Supervision                                      96.9
PCR                                              13.0
Supervision Missions
No. of    Time in Field
Date          Persons     (days)                 Specialization Represented
06/06/87        1             5            Financial Analyst
01/22/88       4              8            Fin.Analyst/Oper.Off./Economist/Ind.Spec.
08/19/88        1             3            Sr. Ind. Specialist
03/03/89        1             2            Sr. Ind. Specialist
03/30/89       1              7            Sr. Ind. Specialist
02/10/90       2             10            Sr. Ind. Specialist/Economist
05/22/91       2              5            Sr. Oper. Officer/Oper. Officer
06/26/92       4              5            Sr. Oper. OfL.er/Statistics,'
Fin. Analyst/proj. Specialist



