                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32429

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-43740 TF-29286)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                              INDONESIA

                                                 FOR A

                                     ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT




                                              April 18, 2005




Health, Nutrition, and Population Sector Unit
Human Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective April 2005)

               Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
                Rp. 1 million = US$ 200
                       US$ 1 = Rp 5,000

                     FISCAL YEAR
        Government of Indonesia: April 1 - March 31

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Academies -   Nurse-training schools (normal course)
     ADB -    Asian Development Bank
  Bapelkes -  Regional or provincial training center (in-service)
     CAS -    Country Assistance Strategy
       CJ -   Central Java province
      CK -    Central Kalimantan province
     CPS -    Central Project Secretariat
       DI -   Deployment innovations
      DO -    Development objective
     DSP -    Personnel planning software
       EU -   European Union
     GOI -    Government of Indonesia
     HPV -    Fifth Health Project
      HR -    Human resources
     HWS -    Health Workforce and Services Project (PHP III)
       IBI -  Indonesia Midwives Association
     ICB -    International Competitive Bidding
     ICR -    Implementation Completion Report
      IDI -   Indonesia Medical Association
     IND -    Indonesia
   Kanwil -   Provincial Office of MOH
      LG -    Local government
     LRC -    Learning Resource Center
     MOF -    Ministry of Finance
    MOH -     Ministry of Health
     MTR -    Mid-Term Review
     NBF -    Not Bank-financed
     NCB -    National Competitive Bidding
     NOL -    No Objection Letters
    OSCA -    Objectives Structured Clinical Assessment
     PAD -    Project Appraisal Document
     PHP -    Provincial Health Project (PHP III is same as DWS)
      PM -    Project management

    Poltekkes -  Health polytechnic schools (pre-service)
        PPNI -   Indonesia Nurses Association
   Puskesmas -   Health center
         QA -    Quality Assurance
     Repelita -  GOI 5-year Plan
     SIMKA -     Health Personnel Information System
        SPK -    Nurse-training schools (accelerated course)
          SS -   South Sulawesi province
Unit swadana -   Autonomous facility



                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
               Country Director     Andrew Steer, EACIF
               Sector Manager       Fadia Saadah, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Puti Marzoeki, EASHD

                                         INDONESIA
                               ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            41

Project ID: P003967                                                  Project Name: ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT
Team Leader: Puti Marzoeki                                           TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ID-FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                                  L/C/TF Number: SCL-43740; TF-29286
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (85%); Sub-national government administration (8%);
                            Central government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/19/1997                                     Effective:
     Appraisal: 03/26/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/14/1998                                      Closing:



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/MOH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Manager:                 Fadia Saadah                                   Maureen Law
Team Leader at ICR:             Puti Marzoeki
ICR Primary Author:             James Knowles


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's development objectives (DO) were to achieve greater efficiency of utilization and equity of
distribution of health personnel, increase the skills of health professionals, and improve the quality of health
professional practices. Instrumental objectives to achieve these goals were to strengthen the decentralization
of planning, deployment and management of personnel, and the role of the private sector; to strengthen the
licensing of health personnel, and support professional associations and quality assurance; to improve the
quality of pre-service and in-service training and strengthen the accreditation of training institutions.

The Project's objectives were clear, realistic and important for the country/sector and were consistent with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which included the following objectives:

·        Greater decentralization through increased autonomy and accountability
·        Increasing efficiency and productivity in the public and private sectors
·        Enhancing equitable development

The Project was also designed to respond to major sector issues affecting health professionals as identified
at the time by the MOH planning unit. These issues included:

·        Low productivity on average of the health work force
·        Skewed rural-urban distribution of health personnel and very low utilization of public health
services by the poor
·        Rapidly growing private sector in the absence of effective quality assurance mechanisms
·        Uneven management and planning skills and inadequately developed information systems in the
public sector below the central level and in the private sector more generally
·        An increased demand for better-quality health services, due to increasing incomes and changing
epidemiological requirements
·        Need to re-orient the public sector away from service delivery in general to focus more on
regulation, standard-setting, public health, and service provision to the poor and other under-served groups

The Project also supported the Government's strategy for addressing health manpower issues, developed in
connection with preparation for Repelita VII (i.e., the Government's 5-year plan). This strategy was based
on the following principles:

·        Decentralize planning and management of health professionals from the central to the provincial
and local levels
·        Shift planning from a target-driven to a market-driven and facility needs-based approach
·        Encourage the growth of demand-responsive private and quasi-private providers to serve urban and
higher-income groups, re-focusing government services on public health and on under-served groups
·        Undertake policy and regulatory changes and redirect resources to increase the quality of training
institutions and programs
·        Adopt policies, incentives, and public sector programs to address distribution and equity
deficiencies
·        Introduce finance, budgeting and management innovations to promote greater efficiency, quality
and equity of services
·        Adopt training, programmatic and financing policies to encourage greater private sector
participation in producing and utilizing human resources in health.



                                                      - 2 -

Designing a project to assist the Government in implementing this strategy was challenging for several
reasons. First, there was evidence from previous Bank health projects that health manpower problems
needed to be addressed through decentralization and required simultaneous efforts on both the demand and
supply sides. Second, although there were numerous problems to address, the 1997/98 economic crisis
began during the Project's design and heightened the need for effective measures that would contribute to
increased efficiency and more effective deployment of the professional health work force in the public and
private sectors. There was an urgent need for public funds to focus on basic quality care and services for
the poor while strengthening the private sector to cover expanding demand for quality services in the future.
Third, although there was some recently completed and well-regarded economic and sector work on health
manpower issues in Indonesia, baseline data were lacking in many areas, and there was no tried and tested
formula for addressing health manpower issues in a setting as complex and rapidly changing as
Indonesia's. Lastly, the Project involved important policy reforms (i.e., decentralization of many health
manpower functions, piloting of innovations in health manpower incentives, development of new licensing
and accreditation mechanisms) whose successful implementation required broad-based support.

During design, agreement was reached with the appropriate central units about the functions they were
prepared to devolve to the provincial and district levels, as well as the appropriate timing of these changes.
To keep the Project manageable and in light of the constraints noted above it was decided to focus the
Project on a limited geographical area (three provinces), on the pre-service training of nurses and midwives
(i.e., pre-service medical doctor training was not supported by the Project), on demand-side financing
initiatives that were clearly focused on health manpower utilization and training (i.e., excluding broader
health insurance or managed care initiatives), and without any health service components apart from
improving health manpower.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project's objectives were not revised during implementation. However, several Project amendments
canceled some loan funds (see Table 1) and extended the project completion date by four months.

3.3 Original Components:
As originally designed, the Project included two distinct groups of project components, one at the province
level and one at the central level. At the province level, the project components included: (A) improving the
efficiency of utilization and equity of distribution of health professionals (B) improving the quality of health
professionals practices (C) improving quality of health professional training (D) province project
management. At the central level, the project components included: (E) building central support for health
professionals and (F) project management. These project components appeared to be a reasonable response
to the issues and constraints noted above, were appropriate to the capacity of the implementing agency and
took into account relevant lessons learned in the 15 previous Bank health sector projects since 1977. The
limited financial management capacity at the province level was to be addressed through training provided
by the center during the early stages of implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Project's components were revised by a Loan Agreement amendment on 6 August 2002 following
recommendations made during the Mid-Term Review. Project management (PM) at both the province and
central levels was consolidated into a single Component D (formerly central PM was included in a separate
Component F, which was dropped by this amendment). Component E was revised to include a greater
emphasis on human resource policy development. These changes did not amount to a restructuring of the
Project, i.e., the changes were not major.




                                                       - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Project's quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. Although the project design included some positive
elements, it lacked an effective monitoring and evaluation framework and plan and was also conceptually
unsound inasmuch as it implicitly assumed that large Project investments in human resources would
automatically translate into better quality services. The project's benefits were also skewed in favor of the
non-poor (i.e., Government health workers). However, some positive design elements included consistency
of the Project's objectives with the CAS and with the Government's own priorities and strategy in the
health manpower area. The Project design also effectively built on prior Bank lending experience in the
health sector and on recently completed economic and sector analyses. Attempts were made to keep the
Project simple and focused and to achieve agreement on key policy reforms prior to implementation.
Environmental and social safeguards were considered not to apply to this Project.

An important weakness at entry was the absence of an appropriate monitoring and evaluation framework
and plan. The Project DO listed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) Project Design Summary does
not completely match the project DO described in the text of the PAD, and some of the performance
indicators listed for the Project's DO are also inappropriate. As discussed below, the listing of outputs in
the Project Design Summary (as well as the choice of output indicators in some cases) was also deficient.
The Project Implementation Plan covering the first 18 months of Project activities did not include any
monitoring and evaluation plan, and no baseline or target values were provided for any of the performance
indicators. There was no strategy in the project design to measure the project's effects or ultimate impact.
Indicators and targets were subsequently replaced in the Loan Amendment of 6 August 2002 (following the
Mid-Term Review) by a shortened list of 7 performance indicators without targets. Regular project
monitoring and reporting began in mid-2002, limiting feedback to Project staff (and to the Bank) about the
Project's progress to its final two years.

Project design was appropriately realistic in recognizing that progress in implementing recommendations to
re-deploy personnel would require incentives (the Deployment Innovations). It was also realistic in
recognizing that incentives were necessary to motivate re-deployed staff to provide services to the poor (for
example, the targeted vouchers that were piloted in some Project districts). However, the project design was
naïve in believing that the substantial investments in human resources (for example, the on-site and off-site
training, including substantial QA training) would automatically translate into better-quality services. The
project design also under-estimated the obstacles to using public funds to contract with private providers.

A final problem with the project design is that the benefits were skewed to the non-poor. There was no
analysis of the likely beneficiaries of the substantial human resources investments made by the project. For
example, non-poor fellowship recipients (3,640 employees of the public health system) received a large
share of the Project's benefits. A broader group of non-poor public health workers received per diems for
attending the many workshops and short-term training courses supported by the Project, while central staff
received support for preparing numerous guidelines and modules. There was no clear mechanism in the
Project design for re-directing these benefits to the poor. An alternative project design might have provided
a substantial increase in purchasing power to the poor and to populations residing in remote areas and
supplemented this with performance-based incentives linked to the quality of care actually provided in poor
and remote areas. This would have created a demand on the part of providers for more effective training
investments.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:




                                                       - 4 -

Achievement of the Project's DOs and outputs is rated unsatisfactory, based on an unsatisfactory rating for
two of the three Project DOs, as discussed below. The Project faced some major constraints during its first
three years that affected its implementation, including the aftermath of the 1997/98 economic crisis and the
major Government-wide decentralization that was implemented in 2001. Under the decentralization,
districts suddenly became the front-line providers of health services in an atmosphere of substantial
uncertainty and confusion. Many former central and province-level personnel were transferred to other
posts, and these unanticipated personnel changes posed many problems during the Project's
implementation. Although the Project was designed to support a continuing process of decentralization, it
did not anticipate the extent and rapidity with which many important functions related to health manpower
were transferred to districts. It was only at the mid-term review that adjustments were made to the project
design to match the substantial changes that occurred in government organization since the Project began.
This delay may have been, in part, due to the uncertainty around decentralization that continues to be an
issue. Another factor may have been attempts by the center and the provinces to maintain control over
functions that had in fact been devolved to the district level.

At the same time, it is important to note that serious problems with project implementation were brought to
the attention of the Government in Bank-prepared Aide Memoires as early as 1999 (well in advance of the
January 2001 decentralization), and many of these problems were not resolved (for example, weak project
management in SS and delays in procuring needed technical assistance). Some of these issues were easy to
solve and MOH could have addressed some of them (e.g. project management issues) but there was a lot of
delay in taking action from the centeral level at MOH. Project implementation improved following the
Mid-Term Review in 2001 and was rated by the Bank as having been satisfactory during the Project's last
year of implementation. However, the subsequent improvements in implementation performance were not
enough to make up for the lost time during the Project's early years since achievement of the Project's DOs
would have required early and successful achievement of several key outputs, for example, the pilot
Deployment Innovations (DI). Consequently, the Project was not able to achieve its DOs. The late
achievement of some Project outputs also reduced prospects for sustainability, as discussed in Section 6.1.
Despite an overall unsatisfactory rating in terms of the achievement of the Project's DOs, the Project
managed to complete a number of important activities, and some of these have been subsequently
incorporated into an ongoing World Bank financed project ­ the Health Workforce and Services (Provincial
Health III) Project, while others are expected to be supported by other donors or LGs (see Section 6.2).
The Project has also engendered significant institutional development (see Section 4.5).

A background study prepared for the Project's Final Evaluation notes the following problems in
assessing its effectiveness in achieving its DOs, including the absence of clear indicators and
targets for DO-level indicators, a dearth of project-related information prior to 2002, and the
Project's focus on 20 pilot districts following the 2001 Government-wide decentralization and the
Project's Mid-Term Review. With these limitations in mind, the Project's achievement of each of its
DOs is assessed as follows:

Objective 1: Achieve greater efficiency of utilization and greater equity in the distribution of health
personnel

Achievement of this DO is rated unsatisfactory. A lot of project activity focused on improving HR planning
and management at the province level. At project completion, most districts reported that they were using a
systematic approach to HR planning and management based on Project-provided software (SIMKA and
DSP). However, the available evidence suggests that these reports overstate the degree to which province
and district-level HR planning and management practices improved during the Project. The reported HR



                                                      - 5 -

plans were of uneven quality, and it is unclear how many were actually implemented (only 50% reportedly
identified funding sources). Much of the training focused on how to use the project-provided software
rather than on developing the capacity to analyze the information they produced or on developing advocacy
skills that could be used to effect needed policy changes on the basis of that information. The Project's
problems in obtaining reliable and timely information, even from the 20 pilot districts, suggests that the
information systems were not functioning very well even during the Project's final two years.

Staff incentive schemes and DIs were implemented very late in the Project, and most were still at an
embryonic stage at project completion. Some of the incentive schemes were not clearly linked to improved
staff performance (for example, schemes piloted in Central Java that used formulas based on qualifications
and seniority to allocate user fee revenue among staff). Local Government (LG) support for the incentive
schemes and DIs was reported to be very limited (in part because delayed implementation made it difficult
to establish their benefits to local leaders). There is no systematic evidence that the DIs resulted in a strong
link between staff deployment and workload or that they led to a re-deployment of staff in favor of remote
and under-served areas (except possibly in the case of some midwives in Central Kalimantan).

Objective 2: Increase the skills of health professionals in Project provinces

Achievement of this DO is rated satisfactory. All training institutions in the three provinces were improved
and accredited. Sister School Programs were successfully established in all three provinces (although after
delays). All SPKs (short-course nurse-training schools) were successfully converted to academies
(normal-course nurse-training schools) except for two private SPKs in Central Java. However, questions
were raised during the Final Evaluation about whether their upgraded status reflects improved teacher
qualifications, facilities or equipment. Most of the training provided by the Project was competency-based.
Learning resource centers were established in all three provinces (although their utilization rates were low
at project completion).

In addition to institutional improvements, a large number of public health staff (3,640) received fellowships
from the Project to support long-term training, mostly to improve clinical skills. As a result, it is clear that
the individual capacity of a significant proportion of the health workforce in the three provinces was
improved. Preference appeared to be given to staff from remote locations in awarding fellowships (except
in South Sulawesi), and Central Java (CJ) even developed a special training program for students from
poor areas. What is less clear is whether the long-term training responded to actual HR needs as well as the
extent to which these needs had been successfully met at project completion.

Objective 3: Improve the quality of health professionals' practice

Achievement of this DO is rated unsatisfactory. Most districts claim that they have systems in place to
license health professionals. However, these systems were in place prior to the Project in most districts, and
it is unclear what is involved in obtaining and retaining a license and what percentage of a district's
workforce is currently licensed. It is also unclear that the licensing systems currently in place make any
significant contribution to the quality of health professionals' practice. In addition to licensing systems, the
Project contributed to some strengthening of professional associations for doctors, nurses and midwives.
Many health professionals registered with their professional associations in the three Project provinces.
However, the role of the professional associations in contributing to the improved quality of the services
provided by their members remains unclear.

A substantial amount of quality assurance (QA) training was provided by the Project. One or more staff of
most puskesmas in the 20 pilot districts (85%) received QA training, with almost one-half of the puskesmas


                                                        - 6 -

reporting that at least one doctor, nurse and midwife received QA training. Most puskesmas (80%) reported
that they were operating QA programs at the end of 2003. Many districts also reported that they had
established QA teams. However, it is unclear whether these QA training activities had any effect on the
actual quality (including the health effectiveness) of the services provided (the Mid Term Review notes that
the major change produced by the QA training related to client satisfaction, i.e., service with a smile).
There is no evidence that the QA training had any effect on service utilization rates. Since many public
providers also have private practices, it is possible that the QA training might also have improved the
quality of services in the private sector. Unfortunately, there is no information available on how private
practices were affected by the Project. The Mid-Term Review noted that some trainees felt the QA training
was more theoretical than practical. There is also concern that the reported number of hospitals operating
QA programs was already decreasing toward the end of the Project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
I. Province Components:

A. Improve Efficiency of Utilization and Equity of Distribution of Health Professionals

The outputs of this component are rated unsatisfactory, consistent with the unsatisfactory rating of the
outputs of its two sub-components and with that of the corresponding DO (#1).

A.1. Planning and Management

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) enhanced province capacity for human resource (HR) planning
and management, 2) simplified and rapid information systems and analysis with integrated information on
staffing and program performance (SIMKA), and (3) an authorized staffing level system (DSP) for use in
recruiting and allocating staff according to demonstrated local demand for services.

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated unsatisfactory. Some improvement in province-level HR
planning and management occurred during the last two years of the Project as indicated by an increased
percentage of districts reported to have a HR planning document (except for CK, which registered a
constant rate of 50%). However, the planning documents were of greatly varying quality. An increasing
number of staff reportedly received short-term leadership and management training. However, there is very
limited information on the types and quality of the training received, the types of persons trained and on
whether the training contributed to improved HR planning and management skills. In addition, some
fellowships were awarded to province and district-level staff to study HR planning and management.

Efforts to develop province-level HR planning and management capacity proceeded more slowly than
expected and were also more narrowly focused than expected on training in the use of the SIMKA and DSP
software. The latter were successfully developed by the Project, and province/district personnel were
successfully trained in their use (particularly in CJ). However, the Bank's April 2002 Review Mission
noted that SIMKA was not operational in the remaining two Project provinces (because districts were not
providing the necessary information to provinces). Although districts and health centers have received
training in the use of DSP tools to assess staff needs and have applied these tools in many cases at the
puskesmas level, the information provided has not been sufficient to alter staff allocations in such a manner
as to improve equitable access (although some transfers of personnel were achieved in urban areas).

A.2. Innovations to Support Allocative Efficiency and Productivity

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) improved incentives for more efficient and equitable deployment



                                                       - 7 -

and performance in rural areas, 2) self-sustaining private practitioners (midwives, nurses, medical doctors),
3) support for Unit Swadana (autonomous facilities), and 4) DIs at the district and province levels.

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated unsatisfactory. Significant progress was achieved in the
first and fourth outputs, but only after substantial delays. A system of performance-based staff incentives
was successfully developed and piloted in CJ, while successful DIs were designed and piloted in both
Central Kalimantan (CK) and in South Sulawesi (SS). Development of the DIs took more time than
expected due to lack of capacity at the district level, late and in some cases inadequate TA provided by the
center, uncertainty in connection with the decentralization process, and the challenges posed by the changed
role of higher administrative levels from previously directive to supportive. Although the DIs piloted by the
districts have provided valuable experience and lessons learned, they have remained as pilots and have had
little impact on local government staff deployment policies (mainly because of their delayed implementation
but also due to the absence of advocacy skills among HR staff).

Little or no progress was registered in the second and third outputs. For example, interventions to
strengthen the role of private providers were not implemented at all, apart from the efforts to improve the
regulatory framework (discussed below). Most Unit Swadana proposals were not approved because they
appeared to concentrate on investments to strengthen business viability without giving sufficient attention
to the Government's equity, efficiency and quality objectives. Swadana initiatives were also not strongly
supported by some LGs out of concern that they would lose control over user fee revenues and by some
government agencies out of concern that they would lead to increased fees. However, at least one pilot
Puskesmas Swadana was successfully established through the Project in CK. A background report
prepared for the MTR indicates that 13 hospitals and 49 puskesmas were converted to Unit Swadana. The
ICR mission was not able to assess on what these numbers are based.

B. Improve Quality of Health Professionals' Practices

The outputs of this component are rated unsatisfactory, consistent with the rating of its three
sub-components and with that of its corresponding DO (#3).

B.1. Strengthen the Regulatory System

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) an improved regulatory and licensing system for health
professionals (medical doctors, nurses and midwives initially) in conjunction with health professional
organizations that would be piloted in the three Project provinces and 2) an accreditation system for
training institutions and continuing education courses that would be pilot tested in the three Project
provinces in conjunction with health professional organizations.

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated unsatisfactory. Project efforts to deliver the first output
encountered many obstacles. An improved regulatory and licensing system was successfully developed and
piloted in one Project province (CJ), but it has not yet been implemented (and its future status is uncertain,
given the newly approved law on Medical Councils). Most districts reported that a licensing system for
health professionals was in place at the time of project completion (100% of districts in CJ and CK and
60% in SS). However, these are the systems that existed prior to the Project in many cases. Licensing is
still based largely on fulfillment of various administrative requirements instead of on the basis of an
assessment of professional skills.

The second output was partially achieved. A system for accrediting training institutions was developed, and
all training institutions in the three pilot provinces (4 pre-service Poltekkes and 4 in-service Bapelkes)


                                                        - 8 -

achieved accreditation by the end of 2003. The accreditation instrument developed under the Project was
legalized through a Ministerial Decree mandating its use at the national level. CJ also produced guidelines
for continuing education and is reportedly establishing a Quality Council to accredit health facilities.
However, little progress was made by professional associations in developing programs of continuing
education linked to professional certification, although this process is reportedly ongoing.

B.2. Strengthen Professional Associations

The output of this sub-component is strengthened province-level offices of professional associations for
doctors, dentists, pharmacists, midwives and nurses to develop and support in-service training, registration,
certification, networking and professional communications for members and to assist in the accreditation of
training institutions.

Performance in achieving this output is rated unsatisfactory. Provincial offices were established in all three
Project provinces and in most pilot districts, and many members were registered by all five associations.
Unfortunately, there is no reliable information on the number of health professionals eligible to register in
each province or district, so coverage cannot be accurately assessed. At project completion it was still
difficult to get accurate data on registered members for the project performance indicators due to
inconsistencies in the data reported.

B.3. Promote Quality Assurance for Health Services

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) further development of a quality assurance system for
puskesmas in the Project provinces as initiated under Health Project IV, and 2) quality assurance systems
introduced into district hospitals, based on the Total Quality Management concept.

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated unsatisfactory. It is clear that a substantial amount of QA
training was provided through the Project, and an increasing percentage of puskesmas are reported to be
implementing QA. However, there is ambiguity in the performance indicators used to measure achievement
of these outputs. Specifically, it is unclear what is meant by the "Percentage of staff trained in quality
assurance." There appears to have been double counting of some staff who attended more than one QA
training course, and it is unclear that attendance at only one QA course signals any meaningful level of
proficiency. Similarly, it is unclear what is meant by a facility "implementing QA." No independent
assessment was done to evaluate the impact of the QA training on the quality of service delivery or on
consumer satisfaction.

C. Improve Quality of Health Professional Training

The outputs of this component are rated marginally satisfactory, consistent with the rating of its two
sub-components and with that of its corresponding DO (#2).

C.1. Improve Training Methods and Programs

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) competency-based training and case-based training
methodologies developed and linked to quality assurance programs and to the province context, 2) learning
resource centers established in selected district offices, 3) Sister School relationships established linking
foreign and local training institutions, 4) distance learning initiatives and support for professional networks,
and (5) training-related monitoring and evaluation studies. Many health staff (including teachers at these
training institutions) received fellowships for long-term training under this sub-component.


                                                       - 9 -

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated marginally satisfactory. Several of the outputs were
achieved under this Sub-component, although with considerable delays in some cases. The biggest
achievement was the improvement of pre-service training at the Poltekkes, three of which (out of a total of
4 in the three Project provinces) participated in the Sister School Program that was finally implemented
after delays. Competency-based training and case-based training methodologies were developed and
implemented in all of the training institutions in the three provinces (although the Project's Final Evaluation
reports that Problem-Based Learning is still used more widely in CJ). Learning resource centers (LRC)
were established in all three provinces, but their utilization has been low. Only one province (CJ) developed
a marketing strategy and business plan for its LRC. Many health staff also received foreign and domestic
training under this Sub-component (as discussed below).

Progress in establishing distance learning initiatives was limited. Some early progress was made to develop
a distance-learning program for midwives and nurses, but there was disagreement between the Pusdiklat
(Center for Workforce Training) and Pusdiknakes (Center for Workforce Education) over which institution
has the mandate to develop distance learning and over how to build clinical practice into the system
developed initially by Pusdiklat.

C.2. Strengthen Training Institutions

The output of this sub-component is improved pre-service and in-service training programs, training
institutions (regional, provincial and district-level), teachers, and materials used in training nurses and
midwives. Many health staff (including teachers at these training institutions) received fellowships for
long-term training under this Sub-component.

Performance in achieving this output is rated marginally satisfactory. All of the training institutions
(pre-service and in-service) in the three Project provinces were substantially strengthened during the
Project, in part through assistance received under the Sister School Program. Project-supported
improvements included: 1) updated curriculums, 2) plans for future upgrading of faculties, 3) equipment,
books, journals and other learning materials, 4) workshops and studies, and 5) signed memoranda of
understanding between training institutions and clinical training sites in district hospitals and in puskesmas.

Substantial long-term training was provided by the Project. A total of 3,640 fellowships for long-term
training (domestic and overseas) were awarded, mostly to health center, hospital, and district health office
staff to upgrade their clinical skills. According to a Training Plan developed during loan negotiation,
fellowships could be used both to improve the clinical skills of health workers and to upgrade the
qualifications of training institution faculty. However, most fellowships were awarded to health workers to
upgrade their clinical skills.

During the MTR, it was decided to re-orient the long-term training to strengthen human resource planning,
public health and policy development capacity at the district level. It was also decided to award more
fellowships to poor candidates and to candidates from remote areas. Nurses in remote health centers were
subsequently given preference in the award of fellowships in CJ and CK, but not in SS. CJ in particular
developed a special training program to send students from poor families (40 initially) to midwifery
schools. The expectation is that these students will return to work in their home villages after completing
their studies.

A consultant evaluation of the Project's fellowship program (a tracer study) found that most fellowship
recipients (99%) successfully completed their studies and returned to their previous provinces of residence.


                                                       - 10 -

However, many fellowship recipients (particularly those who went for overseas training) subsequently
changed jobs, and some even transferred to central positions. The evaluation noted weaknesses in
fellowship management

D. Province Project Management

The output of this component is province-level project management and administration. Performance in
achieving this output is rated unsatisfactory. Although project management performance was reported to be
satisfactory from the beginning in one Project province (CK), problems were consistently reported in two
others (SS and CJ). In SS, for example, it was reported that the PM team was unresponsive to the Central
Project Secretariat (CPS), to the Bank's procurement auditors, and to a Bank team during a project review
visit. In CJ, the problems noted included weak leadership and low provincial commitment to the Project.
The CPS delayed addressing the management problems in SS for more than a year.

II. Central Components

E. Build Central Support for Health Professionals

The outputs of this component are rated unsatisfactory, consistent with the rating of its two
sub-components.

E1. Strengthen Planning Capacity and Technical Support

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) enhanced central capacity in human resources planning, 2) an
efficient, user-friendly and integrated data management system for health professionals, and 3) technical
support to provinces in implementing the Project.

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated unsatisfactory. This component was restructured during the
MTR because central-level activities were mostly limited to developing modules and guidelines for which
there was uncertain demand at the district level (since following decentralization the center no longer had
the power to instruct districts to adopt them). At the same time, decentralization required adjustments to
existing workforce policies in which the center could play an important role. Accordingly, the central role
was restructured to focus on policy development and on the provision of technical assistance requested by
districts. Despite this change, no meaningful changes in workforce policy had been achieved by the Project
at completion.

E2. Improve the Professional Environment

The outputs of this sub-component are: 1) systems and procedures for regulation, licensing and
certification, 2) strengthened capability of national professional associations to communicate with
members, to develop professional cohesiveness and to support national quality initiatives.

Performance in achieving these outputs is rated unsatisfactory. Central efforts to enact a statute regulating
medical and dental practice encountered political opposition at the national level (for example, to the
establishment of special medical courts to review allegations of malpractice). When Government efforts
stalled, the law was introduced in Parliament and approved after project completion (October 2004). Before
the law can be implemented, however, it will be necessary to establish both a national Medical Council and
a national Ethics Council.




                                                      - 11 -

The second output was achieved to varying degrees by each professional organization. National
professional associations were substantially strengthened by assistance received from the Project. For
example, the medical doctor association (IDI) implemented an information system at its web site, where it
also provides free e-mail services, a health journal and continuing education. However, IDI still has
problems collecting dues from its members. In contrast, the successful midwife association (IBI) has no
problems collecting dues from its members. Progress in developing the nurses' association (PPNI) was
hampered by the absence of full-time staff during the Project's first few years. One encouraging
development is that the five professional associations have established a Joint Secretariat and are currently
working together on common problems at the national and local levels.

The professional organizations are responsible for non-formal continuing education (public training
institutions are responsible for formal continuing education). Although continuing education is not yet
required to maintain a license (there is no re-certification system in place), the professional organizations
are developing examinations that might eventually be used to re-certify their members' professional
standards.

F. Project Management

The output of this component is central-level project management (PM) and administration. Performance
on this component is rated unsatisfactory. There were improvements in central PM following the MTR
(although Project records for 2002 and 2003 indicate that less than 50% of planned activities were
implemented and only about 40% of budgeted funds were disbursed). Problems in PM included:

·        Failure to report on Project progress or to develop an effective reporting system during the first
three years of the Project
·        Inadequate staffing of the CPS
·        Delays in procuring needed technical assistance
·        Inadequate monitoring of provincial and district activities
·        Failure to develop and achieve effective annual work plans
·        Failure to document achievement of several project outputs through independent assessments
·        Failure to follow up audit findings promptly
·        Failure to provide sufficient training to province staff on Bank procurement procedures
·        Delayed implementation of actions requested in the MTR

The main responsibility of the CPS was for PM while a Technical Team was responsible for providing
technical guidance to the Project. However, the Technical Team did not function during the first half of the
Project, and the CPS had to cover project technical issues as well. This added responsibility adversely
affected their PM performance. At MTR, the Technical Team was strengthened by appointing a focal point
for each of the Project's four centers. A team of international consultants was recruited, with one
consultant assigned to each center. Following completion of the international consultant contract, a team of
national consultants took over. These changes contributed to improved PM and technical performance
during the post-MTR period, but it was too late to compensate for earlier delays.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis in the PAD included a cost-benefit analysis providing an "illustrative rate of return
from the project." The economic analysis was based on strong assumptions about the Project's health
impact, i.e., that after 5 years the project would eliminate 5% of the observed difference between the
healthy years of life in the project area and that observed in OECD countries for a group of nine priority



                                                      - 12 -

disease groups and 2.5% of the difference for remaining disease groups. Under these assumptions, the IRR
for the overall Project was estimated to be 45% (99% in Central Java, 28% in South Sulawezi and 4% in
Central Kalimantan). Unfortunately, the absence of suitable data makes it impossible to re-estimate the
Project's IRR or even to assess the reasonableness of several of the key assumptions used in preparing the
original estimates. However, the fact that the Project's implementation was substantially delayed and that it
was actually implemented in only 20 pilot districts (compared to about 70 total districts in the three Project
provinces), suggests that a revised estimate of the IRR would be considerably lower than that reported in
the PAD.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The PAD included an analysis of fiscal impact that included projections under three alternative scenarios of
the Project's recurrent cost burden in each province at the completion of the Project. This indicator is
relevant in assessing the Project's financial sustainability. The alternative scenarios differed in the assumed
changes in each province's health budget during the 5-year period of the Project. For example, the
best-case scenario assumed a 20% decline in the first year, no change in the second year, and a recovery to
5% annual growth thereafter. Under these assumptions, Project-related recurrent costs as a percentage of
province health budgets were projected to be 1.6% in Central Java, 8% in Central Kalimantan, and 3% in
South Sulawezi. By comparison, under the worst-case scenario (declines in province health budgets of 30%
and 20% respectively in the first and second years, a 5% decline in the third year, no change in the fourth
year, and a recovery to 5% growth in the Project's fifth year), the corresponding projected recurrent cost
burdens would be 3% in Central Java, 13% in Central Kalimantan and 5% in South Sulawezi.
Unfortunately, there are no comprehensive data available on consolidated Government health expenditure in
the three Project provinces following the 2001 decentralization that could be used to assess actual fiscal
experience during the period of project implementation (1998-2003).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project is rated to have had a modest institutional development impact on the following institutions:
district health offices and district governments more broadly, training institutions and professional
associations. Impact on district-level health facilities is less clear. The Project has not contributed
significantly to the creation of strong central leadership behind sector reform and has not created effective
mechanisms for addressing HR issues in a post-decentralized setting.

Districts have benefited greatly from the training and experience gained in formulating proposals for and
implementing the DIs. Effective ties have been developed in several pilot districts between District Health
Offices and both other LG offices and Local Parliaments. For example, in some districts, the
Project-supported SIMKA software has been used by other district offices to manage information on their
personnel. These new relationships are particularly important in the context of Indonesia's decentralization
of many governmental functions to the district level.

Training institutions have also been substantially upgraded and strengthened by the Project, as evidenced
by the fact that all training institutions in the three Project provinces have achieved accreditation. Improved
working relationships have also been established between pre-service training institutions (Poltekkes) and
clinical training sites (both district hospitals and puskesmas).

The professional associations have also been strengthened through the Project. It is reported that they have
been transformed from "political organizations" to effective professional associations and are now working
together to address common problems.

District-level health facilities (district hospitals and puskesmas) have been strengthened by the QA and



                                                        - 13 -

other training provided through the Project and in some cases by stronger ties with training institutions.
However, it is unclear to what extent this training has translated into better-quality services. There are no
plans yet to implement the accreditation of public or private health facilities, even on a pilot basis.
Presently, there are only input-based standards used to ensure the quality of services provided at public
health facilities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1997/98 economic crisis limited the availability of GOI resources to support project activities. In the
wake of the crisis, there was not only a shortage of funds but also of even scarcer managerial resources, as
the GOI understandably accorded highest priority to minimizing the adverse impact of the crisis on the
delivery of basic services, such as health and education. As a result of the crisis, the Project was basically
limited to three years of implementation, and overall Project performance should be assessed against this
important reality.
There was also civil unrest in Central Kalimantan during project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was initially considerable uncertainty and subsequently massive staff redeployment in connection
with the Government-wide decentralization implemented in 2001. Whereas the decentralization was largely
in response to political developments beyond the control of the Government, GOI reluctance to address core
issues of civil service reform contributed to an environment in which the roles and responsibilities of
districts in relation to workforce issues remained ambiguous.
The late release of the Government budget impeded some Project activities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Poor project management (PM) at both the central and province levels was a major impediment to project
implementation during the Project's first three years, but to a lesser extent thereafter. The Project's Final
Evaluation attributes early delays in project implementation to: 1) the economic crisis, 2) the 2001
decentralization, and 3) changes in the Government structure and lack of readiness among province and
district personnel. However, several serious PM-related problems were noted in project review Aide
Memoires as early as 1999 (i.e., during the Project's first year of implementation), including slow
implementation and delays in procuring needed TA.
There was an absence of effective leadership within the public health system to make the basic policy
changes needed to achieve the Project's DOs (for example, linking compensation more effectively to
performance).
There were few attempts to focus Project resources on the poor prior to the MTR.
The GOI failed to develop and implement an appropriate evaluation plan for the Project. Consequently,
little is known about Project outputs in such areas as quality of care.

5.4 Costs and financing:
A low rate of loan disbursement was a problem almost from the beginning of the Project (Table 1). The
substantial devaluation of the Rupiah relative to the US$ during the Project's first few years contributed to
the slow disbursement rate. Late approval of the Government budget was also responsible for some delays.
However, the main reason for slow disbursement was poor PM. The Project was chronically unable to
accomplish the level of activities it was expected to achieve. Failure to obtain needed technical assistance in
many areas meant that the Project could not meet Bank standards, and Bank approvals (NOL) were
frequently delayed. Even during the last two years, for which data are available, project implementation and
disbursement was well below expectations.




                                                     - 14 -

Table 1. Planned versus actual cumulative Project disbursements (US$ millions), FY 1999-2003
                            1999          2000          2001           2002          2003            2004
Planneda                      4.2          13.1          24.7          35.8           44.7           44.7
Revisedb                      4.2         11.6           21.9          31.8           39.7           39.7
Actualc                        1.0           5.3          10.3          15.5           22.6           29.1
Actual as % of               26.8          40.5          41.7          43.3           50.6           65.1
planned total
Actual as % of                26.8         45.6          47.0           48.7          56.9           73.3
revised total
a Based on PAD. Loan amount reduced from US$ 44.7 million to US$ 39.7 on 12/13/1999 and to $US 35.5 million
in 03/08/2004.
b Based on pro-rated revised total of US$ 39.7.
c Actual cumulative disbursement dates: FY 1999 (4/28/99), FY 2000 (9/28/00), FY 2001 (5/21/01), FY 2002
(4/30/02), FY 2003 (6/19/03), FY 2004 (5/24/04).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Prospects for Project sustainability are rated as unlikely. Most Project resources were used to support the
training of staff in the three Project provinces. Much of this training was designed to upgrade the
qualifications of staff who had received sub-standard pre-service training This training was largely
designed to respond to a non-recurring need. Similar training was and is still being provided in other
provinces with assistance from other donors (for example, the ADB, USAID, AusAid and the EU).

One of the Project's most important outputs was the pilot DIs designed to promote the more efficient use
and more equitable distribution of health personnel. The fact that these pilots were implemented much later
in the Project than expected limited their "demonstration" value to LGs. That no provision was made to
evaluate the pilots or to disseminate the results will further limit prospects for their sustainability and (in
the case of successful innovations) their eventual extension to other districts. Currently, there is little
evidence of continuing LG support for the DI pilots.

Another important set of Project outputs relate to quality assurance (QA). Even if the necessary QA
capacity has been created, there is no mechanism in place to ensure that QA systems will be sustained over
time. Project monitoring data already suggest that QA implementation was decreasing in district hospitals
at project completion. What is needed is a system for monitoring and rewarding improved quality on a
sustained basis. Implementing a system of facility accreditation in both the private and public sectors could
provide the foundation for sustainable improvements in quality. Under such a system, private facilities
would have to meet minimum standards to receive a license, while the accreditation scores achieved by
public facilities could be used as a management tool to achieve sustained quality improvement over time
(particularly if linked to a system of performance-based incentives).

It will also be difficult to sustain any Project-induced improvements in HR planning and management over
time. In the absence of project support, there are few if any incentives for effective HR planning and
management at any level. In fact, the incentives would appear to operate in favor of maintaining existing
patterns of inefficiency and inequity in the personnel area. To date, GOI has not introduced civil service
reform in pace with decentralization and this created an ambiguous role for district governments in this
areas.

As discussed below, the fact that some of the Project's more successful (but late-developing) outputs have


                                                      - 15 -

been (or are expected to be) transferred to other Bank and non-Bank projects, while some others are
expected to receive continuing support from LGs, is a positive development.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During the last two months of the Project, province-level activities focused on workshops to discuss exit
strategies designed to sustain effective interventions. The various implementing agencies also prepared
written descriptions of best practices for presentation at a seminar on best practices held in August 2004
and for inclusion in a manual of best practices.

Apart from the substantial training discussed above, arrangements have been made to support the continued
operation of some of the Project's other effective operations. Some have been transferred to other Bank
health projects for continued support. For example, following protracted negotiations, the Bank's new
HWS/PHP III Project is now expected to support the Sister School Program and the extension of training
institution accreditation nationwide. Some other Project activities are expected to be supported by other
donors (for example, support of some of the DI pilots in CK and SS is expected to be transferred to ADB's
DHS II Project). LGs have also agreed to support some operations (for example, continuation of QA
training and continuation by CJ of its midwifery training scheme for students from poor villages). However,
it has been more difficult to obtain LG support for the continued operation of several DIs, and there are no
resources available for central monitoring of these LG-supported activities.

There is no reliable routine system for collecting information on Project-related indicators. A special data
collection and reporting system was developed for the Project in 2002. As previously noted, it was
necessary to pay incentives to district-level staff to ensure that the necessary information (limited to a
one-page form) would be collected, and even with incentives, the information collected was neither
complete nor reliable. Under these circumstances, it is not recommended that the Project indicators be
continually monitored. Since the Project did not achieve its DOs, no impact evaluation is recommended.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Marginally unsatisfactory. The
Project addressed an important set of problems, both in the context of the CAS and in the context of the
borrower's human resources development strategy. The technical design of the Project built effectively on
recently completed economic and sector work as well as the experience and insights gained in other Bank
health projects. However, there were some major problems with the Project design. The Project provided
substantial resources to the public health system to support training and other activities that directly
benefited its staff (for example, by enhancing their qualifications and through the payment of per diems and
honoraria). The mechanisms by which these resources were expected to benefit the poor consisted mainly
of a series of Project-supported pilots and policy reforms that were not effectively linked to other project
activities and that were ultimately not implemented as planned. The absence of an effective monitoring and
reporting system made it difficult to discern early on that the expected pilots and policy reforms were
seriously lagging the individual resource transfers. The project design also assumed naively that enhanced
provider skills and quality assurance capacity would automatically translate into better-quality services for
all.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision was generally effective and timely throughout the Project. However, the Bank's
performance was less effective (particularly during the first three years) in getting the GOI to address
various performance issues. Overall, the Bank's supervision is rated marginally satisfactory. Performance



                                                       - 16 -

ratings were consistently realistic. Supervision reports consistently identified problems at an early stage of
project implementation. For example, as early as February 2000, a PSR warned that "slow disbursements
and other failures in implementation are threatening the satisfactory achievement of DOs." In fact, clear
warnings about the consequences of delays in contracting needed technical assistance appear in PSRs and
Aide Memoires following project review missions as early as April 1999, while warnings about the need to
strengthen the project management structure in SS and about limited procurement knowledge at the
province level appear as early as January 1999 (only a couple of months after the Project became
effective). However, the borrower was not always responsive in implementing the actions recommended in
the Aide Memoires, and the Bank must share some of the blame for this.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated marginally unsatisfactory. This rating reflects marginally
unsatisfactory ratings in lending and only a marginally satisfactory rating for supervision. The Bank's main
failures were a project design that did not adequately ensure that project-provided inputs were transformed
into the desired DOs and failure (particularly during the Project's first three years) to ensure that the GOI
implemented the actions recommended by supervisory missions.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government played a major
role in the Project's preparation. According to the PAD, GOI inputs to project preparation included
preparation of a matrix by the MOH planning unit linking major issues affecting health professionals to
Project objectives, strategy and content that played a central role in the Project's design. Province level
teams were highly involved in all stages of project preparation, and Kanwils (provincial offices of MOH)
devoted substantial staff resources to the development of the Project. Central and project management units
were formed and staffed during the Project's preparation. Central agencies involved in human resource
training, deployment and policy prepared a functional analysis and identified the functions to be devolved to
the provinces and obtained agreement from the provincial authorities on this decentralization plan.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory. The late availability of Government
counterpart funds reportedly delayed some Project activities and therefore contributed to the overall delays
in project implementation that played an important role in the Project's unsatisfactory performance at
mid-term. GOI failure to implement civil service reform in pace with decentralization created an
environment in which the role and responsibilities of districts in managing human resources was unclear.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance is rated unsatisfactory overall, although it was satisfactory during
the last year of the Project. Project management at both the central and province levels was unsatisfactory
during the Project's first three years (although it was better in CK). During this period, the CPS was not
adequately staffed, and coordination with the provinces was ineffective. The Project's Technical Team did
not function, and central activities were focused on the preparation of guidelines and modules for which
there was no clear demand at the district level. The central and provincial levels failed to provide the kind
of leadership needed in a decentralized setting to advance the Project's policy reform agenda. Instead, the
central and provincial levels tried unproductively to assert powers that had been effectively transferred to
the district level in the Government-wide decentralization.

There were substantial delays in the preparation of terms of reference and in the procurement of needed



                                                     - 17 -

technical assistance as well as in the uptake of overseas fellowships. As a result, disbursement of loan
funds was considerably lower than planned throughout the Project (Table 1). Even during the Project's
final two years less than 50% of planned activities were implemented, and disbursement was only about
40% of budgeted levels. There was no reporting on the Project's progress during the first three years, as
required in the Loan Agreement. Even during the Project's last two years there were difficulties in
interpreting the information reported on the Project's progress due to ambiguity in the definitions of several
indicators and due to the absence of independent assessments of the achievement of several important
Project outputs that might have been used to validate their indicators (for example, training provided in
human resources planning and quality assurance). Province-level procurement staff were not adequately
trained, and several issues identified during Project audits were not resolved in a timely manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Although implementation performance is rated
satisfactory during the Project's last year, the time lost during the first three years of project
implementation effectively prevented the achievement of the Project's DOs at project completion. Borrower
performance was particularly poor in PM and in the lack of leadership provided to the province and district
levels in implementing the Project's policy reform agenda.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lesson to be learned from this Project is that future health projects should be more carefully
designed to reflect the actual incentives and/or lack of incentives that exist in the public health system
(including those at the leadership level) so that project resources are not wasted in efforts to improve the
quantity and quality of inputs without making the necessary system changes to ensure that the enhanced
inputs are used effectively. Whereas training is a necessary investment to improve provider and system
performance, it is not a sufficient measure in itself to improve performance. Improved performance also
requires an effective system of performance monitoring and incentives to motivate personnel to use their
increased capacity effectively (as well as an incentive structure that motivates staff to take training
seriously). Improved system performance also requires effective leadership to ensure that needed policy
reforms are implemented in a timely and sustainable manner.

Another important lesson learned from this Project is that the absence of a carefully developed monitoring
and evaluation framework and plan can seriously compromise project implementation. GOI failure to
develop a reporting system was cited as one of the main reasons that the Project's implementation progress
was rated unsatisfactory at mid term. The absence of a reporting system during the Project's first three
years undoubtedly contributed to delays in implementing crucial pilots and policy reforms. Failure to
conduct independent evaluations of Project outputs has meant that the achievement of several important
outputs is still in doubt (for example, the creation of quality assurance capacity).

Another important lesson is the value of building some flexibility into project designs, particularly when
countries are going through a process of decentralization. In the case of HPV, the possibility of using block
grants to support innovative initiatives by LGs became a valuable feature of the Project following a major
decentralization of healthcare delivery functions to the district level. However, the experience with the
Project's block grant program also points to several other lessons:

·        That local governments may need strong technical support and considerable time to develop
acceptable proposals for block grants
·        That it is much easier to implement externally financed pilots at the local level than to convince
local governments that they should continue supporting these initiatives after project completion



                                                      - 18 -

·       That effective advocacy and good communication skills are required to work effectively with local
governments
·       That a streamlined review process may be needed for proposals from local governments
·       That government may not be the most effective implementer of pilots that involve new and
innovative approaches and that in some cases require substantial technical assistance to implement

Another possible lesson of this project is that it may not be feasible to make substantial progress in the HR
area in some settings unless preceded (or at least accompanied by) needed civil service reform. In
Indonesia, for example, the fact that district-level health workers remained part of the national civil service
unquestionably hindered Project efforts to develop HR capacity and policy at the district level. Finally,
leadership and political support are key for implementing important reforms in the sector and for sustaining
such reforms.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
      A. OVERVIEW

      The project was progressing very slowly in the beginning. Until the end of 1999, there was
      almost no substantial development. Adaptation of project design into implementation has
      taken so much effort, marked by confusion on how to approach the development objectives
      and to move forward. The description of activities although clearly described, was difficult
      to fit in with the condition and environment of existing health human resource development.

      The dynamics on the application of the decentralization policy in 1999 to certain extent has
      put the project in a `wait and see' situation. While the mission of decentralization is clear
      and enthusiastically supported, the operation arrangement in every governmental level was
      not well defined. The local adaptation to the new health service administration, human
      resource management, resource and budgeting system, and other aspects, has called for
      adjustment of project approach, strategy and content of activity. In this regard, the project
      has failed to function as a vehicle for the decentralization process. Some influencing factors
      among others were the lack of capacity within the project, the uneasiness in adjusting
      already defined project (compared to beginning a new set of activities), and temporary
      negligence to the project as people were getting ready for decentralization.

      After careful review in early 2000 (second year), the project made some progress in its
      Development Objective aspect with some adjustment of activities to the decentralization
      context, and in project management aspect with recognizing some weaknesses followed by
      improvement plan.

      The year 2001 was marked by significant progress in project implementation with more
      emphasis on district level while strengthening coordination among district, province and
      central levels. Project Midterm Review (MTR), a very significant milestone in project
      implementation, was also conducted successfully in this year. The agreement developed
      during the review has largely contributed to the `new life' of the project. Despite the late
      timing of the new arrangements, the MTR has produced an appropriate mechanism for
      monitoring project performance, clearly stated the priority and focus of the project


                                                      - 19 -

activities, as well as simplifying project components.

Project activities after `project re-focusing' at the MTR has supported various initiatives at
local (province and district) level, and the strategy has been to provide wide opportunity for
districts and provinces to share local experience among each other. This approach has
resulted in some promising development and establishment of local level health workforce
innovations (see section: Achievement). The effort to strengthen the role of central level has
been less productive. Most central activities were still focusing on central needs although
some efforts were also made to define and fulfill the role of the center in the decentralized
setting.

Year 2004, the final project year, was designed for completing fellowship program,
transferring some activities to other mechanisms and resources, and conducting project final
evaluation. Eventually, a number of good initiatives developed during the project were not
fully completed due to the late start.

B. ACHIEVEMENTS


Objective 1: To achieve greater efficiency of utilization and equity of distribution of
health personnel by strengthening the decentralization of planning, deployment and
management of personnel, and the role of the private sector

Planning and Management of the Work Force           The project made considerable efforts to
improve the management of the health workforce by providing trainings and through the
development and implementation of management tools such as DSP (a formula for working
out the number of staff required to meet a certain workload) and SIMKA (a human
resources information system) developed by Personnel Bureau. South Sulawesi showed
much concern on tranings related to human resources management and planning. The
number of trainings conducted extremely increased in the last semester of 2003 parallel with
the addition of 3 new pilot districts. Follow up action has been taken by some districts,
including Bulukumba through establishment of Health Committee by Bupati involving
various agencies such as NGO, Professional Association, Legislative and Executive as well
as Educational Institutions as members. Most districts claim to use SIMKA and DSP as
tools in planning and management of human resources, with human resources plannning
document as output. Pusgunakes issued Guidelines for developing Human Resources Plan
for Province, Districts and Hospitals. By May 2004, the number of districts having this
document rose ranging between 70% to 80%. All districts in Central Java have produced
health personnel profile documents. Purworejo is most advanced in implementing personnel
database system. The system has been integrated with the task analysis, performance
appraisal and incentive scheme involving all public and private health services. Linking to
SIMPEG (a personnel system developed in BKD) has been planned and will be exercised in
the coming future. Other districts also claim to use the system for personnel administration
process, despite operational of the system was often affected by staff transfer and frequent
changes of the organization structure during the last three years. However, implementation
of the human resources plan in most districts is still weak. With exception on the increased
availability of midwives in remote and very remote areas, most increases of other health


                                            - 20 -

personnel categories occurred in ordinary areas. Relocation staffs is considered a difficult
option. More Puskesmas experience shortages than excesses. The local government also
have funding problems for transfer compensation. Most staffs oppose the transfer option
due to social insecurity reason.

Deployment Initiatives and Incentive Schemes The development of deployment innovations
and incentive schemes was a little bit late in year 2002 following the policy changes on pilot
district focus. Most districts were inexperience in developing proposals resulted in longer
approval process. From 30 proposals, only 18 (60%) from 14 pilot districts received Bank's
approval. Mostly the DI proposal developed by district were set to improve their
incentive-scheme to maintain midwives, nurses and doctors in remote areas. Some of them
introduced activities to involve community on controlling health provider performance. Due
to the time limit, most districts only have one year for piloting the scheme. In Central Java,
incentive system was developed by Puskesmas and District Health Office based on work
performance. Other models implemented in Central Java were Puskesmas Mandiri in
Karanganyar and Restructuring Puskesmas in Rembang. Puskesmas Mandiri in Karanganyar
have been successfully piloted in 5 Puskesmas through provision of new service unit
resulting in the increased number of visits. Restructuring Puskesmas splitted up public
goods and private goods. Puskesmas function only as currative and rehabilitative units,
while preventive and promotif are conducted by P4K. As a result, the visit rates increased
as 80% of Puskesmas patients examined by doctors. In South Sulawesi, the deployment
initiatives were implemented in Bulukumba and Mamuju using voucher scheme for maternal
services for poor families in remote areas. The voucher was used as an incentive for health
personnel who conducted outreach service. In Mamuju, 75 pregnant mothers were covered
by this scheme. During 2004, Pemda Mamuju have expanded the coverage by supporting
other 200 pregnant mothers from poor families. In Bulukumba, the Bupati and District
Health Committee have also supported this scheme and issuing an executive decree on
provision of health services for poor families. Selayar, although constrained by Bank's
refusal, claimed having benefited the project as the Pemda committed to recruit health
professionals for remote areas on contract basis. All districts in Central Kalimantan
implemented various models of DI with praticular attention to improve access to health
service in remote and very remote areas. Kotawaringin Barat had Management of Maternal
Child Health for Puskesmas Midwives. Kotawaringin Timur recruited Pustu nurses on
contract basis. Kapuas provided life Insurance as incentive for health personnel in remote
areas. The others were voucher scheme in Barito Utara, Barito Selatan and Palangkaraya,
and contract post PTT midwives in Barito Utara and Barito Selatan. Overall, achievement
varied in those districts. The project performance indicator on average visits in health
facilities and number of deliveries suggested fluctuation of the trends. As the scheme was
piloted only one year, it is too early to say whether the program successful or not.

Objective 2 : To increase the skills of health professionals by improving the quality of
pre-service and in-service training

Training method HP-V supported the development and implementation of Competency
Based Approach and Problem Based Learning for various trainings and accreditation for
education adn training institutions. Various moduls have been produced by Pusdiklat and



                                            - 21 -

Bapelkes and have been applied in clinical and non clinical trainings. The moduls were also
provided in CD Roms for Distance Learning or self learning purpose. Consequently, the
number of training using CBT method has been increasing up to 100% in the three
provinces during the last semester of 2003. Bapelkes Salaman, Central Java has also
adopted PBL for development of Primary Health Care Model. Implementation of CBT will
be continued, as CBT has become one of policy within health training, and will be supported
by training accreditation. All Poltekes and Bapelkes in the three Provinces have been
accredited.

Learning Resource Centre In Central Java, LRC has been functioning as a learning centre
using on line and offline model. On line model has been piloted in cooperation with
Bapelkes Gombong for distance learning for midwives and nurses. Although still hampered
by unavailability of legal status of the LRC organization, MoU on structure and nodus have
been signed since April 2004 between Poltekkes, RS Kariadi, RS Margono Sukardi, RS
Mawardi, RS Tugu, universities, dan professional organizations. LRC South Sulawesi has
developed bulletins and provided trainings on IT (multimedia). Mamuju has also established
LRC organization but not yet linked with the province LRC. In Central Kalimantan, LRC
physically has been established, and the internal networking has functioned but the
utilization is still challenged. The utilization in the three provinces is mostly limited to the
use of computers. However, dissemination of information of LRC concept has change
people's perpective about learning as a process that is not limited by class room and time,
and the need of information technology in learning.

Sister School Program        The objective of the SSP was to significantly improve the quality
of health personnel, by improving nursing and midwifery educational institutions through
forming partnership. The scope of works included Curriculum, Teaching learning
methodology, Practical field, Educational management, Human resource development,
Facilities, materials and infrastructure, Quality of learning, International qualification,
Program sustainability, and Academic business plan (strategic plan). The sister institutions
were University of Melbourne and Australian Catholic University for Poltekes Semarang
and Surakarta, University of Technology Sydney for Poltekes Makassar and Poltekes
Palangkaraya. The partnership was established in 2002. With assistances from the sister
institutions and under Pusdiknakes supervision, the four Poltekes have modified some
curriculums on nursing and midwifery programme, and piloted since early 2004. The
practical fields and competency standard have been improved using international standards.
MoUs between the academies and the practical fields have been agreed and implemented.
Parallel with the progress of SSP, Pusdiknakes developed management of Poltekes and
issued guidelines as well as technical guidance. Socialization of the guidelines have been
conducted involving all Poltekes together with the dissemination of SSP achievement.

Fellowships      The HP-V Fellowship program aimed to support the project objectives
through improvement of management skills to support decentralization and planning
capacity, as well as improvement of health professional practices and services, and the
quality of training. Particular attention was given to Puskesmas and hospital staffs on
upgrading their education level from SPK to D3 Nursing and Midwifery. Overall, HP-V has



                                             - 22 -

supported 3,649 fellows for D1­S3 degree program (in country: 3,534, overseas: 115). This
figure is 81% bigger than originally planned. Interestingly, in contrast to the increased
number of in country fellows (nearly 200%), the admission of overseas fellowship was
achieved under target (63%), mostly due to low level of English proficiency of candidates.
About 63% of the scholarship was given for D3, majority for nursing and midwifery
program. Special programs to overcome the shortage of health personnel in disadvanteged
areas have been conducted by Central Java and Central Kalimantan. Central Java recruited
54 midwifery students from poor families to serve their own village upon their return.
Central Kalimantan recruited 89 nurses and 10 midwives from Puskesmas and Pustu in
remote and very remote areas. By December 2004, 3,215 fellows (88%) has successfully
graduated, while 370 participants (10%) are expected to finish in March and August 2005.
Most of them were from 2002 admission. The number of failed students was very low,
about 0.6% of the total fellows, with higher percentage on overseas program. The
redeployment of alumni was also highly successful as 99.4% graduates having returned to
the previous province (according to the current fellowship study on 1,587 alumni).
Percentage of alumni received promotion varied from 4% (Central Java) to 24% (South
Sulawesi) without significant difference between overseas and in country program.
However, dismotion was also reported in South Sulawesi because of restructuring
organization following the decentralization policy.

Objective 3 : To improve the quality of health professional practices by strengthening
the licensing of health personnel, and supporting professional associations and quality
assurance

Licensing and Registration Although majority of districts claim to undertake licensing of
health professionals, the system actually still refers to Ministry Decrees released
simultaneously since 1997 to 2002 for medical, midwifery, nursing and pharmacist practice.
The license is issued by District Health Office and will be expired after five years, with
exception for pharmacist. Central Java has developed OSCA, an instrument to evaluate
health professional's competencies. A license will only be given for those who pass this
process. MTKP or Health Professional Council has been established by the Governor of
Central Java to conduct the evaluation. In Central level, Medical Act has been legalized on
October 2004. The medical council is now being processed in MOH, and expected to
function no later than one year after the Act issued. The number of health professional
registered tends to increase in five professional associations(IDI, IBI, PPNI, PDGI, ISFI).
The number of member paying dues also increase although still below 100%.

Strengthening Professional Associations      Five professional associations at central level
established a joint secretariat on 25th October 1999 with aims to enable sharing experience
in strengthening the organizations, and for more efficient use of funding. The associations
worked on four main fields, i.e. supporting the licensing and regulation system, management
information, continuing education including standard practice, and organization
development. Standard practice and continuing education have been developed, socialized
and implemented during the project period to support the professional certification. In 2003,
PPNI has become a full member of ICN (International Council of Nursing). A joint
secretariat, FK-OPAK (Communication Forum for health professional associations) was


                                          - 23 -

also established in South Sulawesi with similar structure as in the central level.

Quality Assurance Programs Coverage of quality assurance training is wide (83% of
puskesmas had at least one officer trained and half of puskesmas had at least one doctor,
nurse and midwife trained). The QA training even has been widespread to Puskesmas staffs
in other provinces, using the in house training method developed by Pusdiklat. About 77.3%
Puskesmas has reported having implemented QA. In HP-V province, District health office
and hospitals claim to have a QA team or a quality control circle. Implementation of QA
benefited Puskesmas in Palangkaraya in supporting the success of Puskemas swadana. QA
has motivated Puskesmas to be more creative in improving the quality of services
comprehensively, not only limited to develop SOP or conducting customer satisfaction
survey. Other implementation activities include problem solving of service quality, and peer
review on the staff obedience toward the standard operating procedure.

Project Management

Project organization and management; The key structure of the project management has
been mentioned in previous section. In addition, a project secretariat equipped with full time
staff has been established in the center and in 3 provinces to manage day-to-day project
management activities. Starting in 2002 a Project Coordinator was appointed for each of the
20 pilot districts. Project Guidelines, Manuals and Procedures were developed at the
beginning of project implementation, and have been through some improvements along
project life. After the year 2001, the Project eventually implemented a good system for
project planning, project financial and procurement management, and project performance
monitoring. This has contributed to the vast project progress during the second half of
project implementation. At the closing of the project, HP-V has successfully organized a
national workshop for disseminating project's lessons learnt and best practice involving
eleven MOH foreign assisted projects.

Finance; Until the Closing Date, the Project has disbursed an amount of USD32.71 M of
the loan. Compared to the revised total loan of USD35.5 M, this makes a disbursement of
92%, or 73% of the original loan of USD44.7 M. Counter-part funding from GOI central
budget has amounted at USD5.25 M, made a portion of 14% from the total project
spending (IBRD and GOI). The biggest spending of project fund (32%) was for fellowship
program. Spending for each location is as the following: Central Java USD12.14 M, South
Sulawesi $11.36 M, Central Kalimantan $7.96 M and Center $6.49 M. Part of spending in
the center was also cover activities for the provinces such as technical assistance and
fellowships.

Procurement; Around 38% of project expenditure has been implemented through
procurement mechanism or in other words contracted to other parties. There were a total of
376 contract packages made during the course of the project. Recruitment of consultants
absorbed biggest total contract value of USD6.47 M (45%), while procurement of goods
led the number of contract package with 222 packages (59%). Project plan for provision of
civil works and goods have been entirely fulfilled. Provision of consultants in most cases



                                           - 24 -

have been implemented behind schedule. DIP delays, insufficient knowledge and skill of
Procurement Committee on WB guidelines, struggle in developing TOR, and lengthy
process in obtaining NOL, have been the most common problem in procurement activities.

C. SUSTAINABILITY

 No            Activities                         Sustainability Arrangement


 1.   Health workforce Planning    Pusgunakes will
      and Management               o    introduce model and method to other provinces and
                                   districts through other projects.
                                   o    Monitor further implementation in HP-V provinces
 2. Health Workforce Information o      Personnel Bureau will continue disseminating
     System (SIMKA and DSP)       SIMKA and DSP to other provinces with other project.
                                  o     Possibility to link with Simpeg (by BKD) will be
                                  continued by Purworejo district. Other districts in Central
                                  Java will continue using Purworejo model to improve their
                                  personnel information system.
 3.   Deployment Innovation (DI)   o    Local government of some districts will continue
                                   supporting implementation of the scheme (incentive
                                   scheme in Central Java, voucher model in South
                                   Sulawesi and contract midwife in Barito Utara)
 4.   Self Reliant Health Center   o    Local government continue the support through
      (Puskesmas Swadana) in       PERDA.
      Palangkaraya
 5. Legislation for Health        o     Medical council has been discussed in MOH and will
     Professional Practice        be established in the near future.
                                  o     Draft Nursing and Midwifery Act will be continued
                                  to process
 6. Accreditation for Education ado     Continue the implementation of accreditation system
     Training Institution         for other training insitutions nationally.
 7. Strengthen Professional       o     Joint Professional Associations (Sekber OP) will
     Association                  continue to function
 8. Quality Assurance             o     Expand the implementation of in house training
                                  method to other provinces (West Java and Banten) funded
                                  by GOI.
 9. Sister School Program (SSP) o       Pusdiknakes continue working on improvement of pre
                                  service training in other provinces using the SSP results
                                  from the HP-V provinces. Funding is available from
                                  PHP-III and GOI (APBN).
 10. In-service Training
     -   Competency Based         o     Implementation of CBT will be continued and
     Training (CBT)               supported by training accreditation.
     -   Learning Resource        o     Organization of LRC in Central Java and South
     Centers (LRC)                Sulawesi will be legalized. The operational will be
                                  continued using APBD resources.



                                          - 25 -

D. STAKEHOLDER PERFORMANCE

Central Level
Project implementing units in the center have seriously put effort in the project preparation.
Coordination were made effectively during the preparation with assistance from a number of
consultants in various fields. Development of guidelines or models in many aspects of
human resource were made by the center. Nevertheless, this role to some extent has
neglected the new roles required under the decentralization era. Performance of central
project management continuously improved as the project progressing. The Technical
Working Team has formed a strong teamwork and contributed to learning experience in the
districts in particular.

Province and District
Central Java, considered as the most advanced province in the project, has excellent capacity
in project administration and management. Support and recognition from the local
government has been shown. The work of joint professional associations in Central Java was
very productive especially in developing instruments and system for OSCA. The districts in
Central Java started the project in later stage, compared to the other provinces, partly due to
provincial strong hold.

South Sulawesi experienced prominent problems in project management at the beginning.
Changing of some key staffs along the project has affected project performance. While
performance of each implementing units was excellent, the coordination and integration was
still lacking. Districts in South Sulawesi came later in the project with high enthusiasm. A lot
of works were done in the district level. Support from local government as well as local
parliament were excellent.

Central Kalimantan, with lack of experience in managing a foreign assisted project, has
demonstrated high level of commitment and learning effort. Compliance with project
guidelines and procedures was a special remark of this province. Both province and districts
have performed their best capacity, although not always resulted in substantial output as
there were many factors influencing.

World Bank
During project preparation, the Bank has been very supportive, helpful, and has created a
mutual teamwork with the GOI team. Nevertheless, special attention should be given to
project design which is considered high complexity but lack of detailed implementation
arrangement. Project milestones in the preparation stage have been achieved within
schedule. Capacity building at implementing unit level has not received sufficient attention
during project preparation

The six-monthly WB review to the project has always been a powerful tools to improve the
progress of the project. Workshops and discussion forum has served as a project policy
making opportunity as well as knowledge and experience sharing among all stakeholders. As



                                           - 26 -

more wide and practical issues occurred within decentralization setting, involvement of the
Bank in specific technical issues in the field would be more required. Changes in Bank's
staff generally did not affect the performance of the project as the Bank system and
procedure have been in place. The Bank's No Objection Letter mechanism, nevertheless,
was the highest matter receiving complaint from implementing units. Although the principle
of the NOL requirement was accepted, the procedures would really need to be reviewed by
the Bank and GOI, to facilitate timely execution of project activities, especially the
substantial ones.


E. LESSONS LEARNED

1.         Indonesia will still face problems related to the health personnel. Therefore it is
necessary to develop project in health personnel, or integrate the topic in new project, as a
continuation of the former health projects.
2.         Project design; Statement of project objectives was clear, but the design of
activities and the framework to reach the development objectives was complex and not clear
enough. Serious attention should have also been given to the application of project
performance indicators from the beginning of the project, so it would help the project
shaping up earlier. In addition, introducing new initiatives to existing system, like HP-V
aims, is quite a difficult job. In the context of project approach, a heavy burden on system
development was not so favorable to the performance of the project itself. Health Personnel
Project in the future shall be more simple, focused, closely related to decentralization issues,
and work within system already in place.
3.         Problems in equity of health personnel (particularly doctors) in remote areas are
still not solved comprehensively. It is very necessary to develop a more interesting incentive
system, such as proper remuneration or level of career; which is related to the performance
of the health personnel.
4.         To some extent, decentralization has caused lack of communication between
central and provincial/district level. It is necessary to continuously enhance dialog between
central and district level, especially in health personnel development, particularly related to
the job distribution, function and authority in each level.
5.         Ministry of Health and Health Office needs to facilitate capacity building on the
professional organization. It is expected that the organization could develop information
system among the members and participate in developing policy of health personnel.
6.         It is necessary to continue the activities of the HP­V which had been implemented
successfully and to integrate them in the viable system, such as SIMKA, Human Resource
Planning, Incentive System, Practice Regulation, Quality Assurance, and other new
policies. The development of a good project but complex one should be regularly reviewed
to get same understanding among the officials and management such as SSP and LRC.
7.         Project progress has been very slow during the first half of project life. This has
caused anxiety and unfinished development of some initiatives during the second half. Rapid
progress after MTR showed that project problem was something that can be resolved; only
that it should be resolved at earlier stage. To prevent similar problem in the future, it is
recommended that project preparation conducted more thorough to include development of



                                             - 27 -

      project detailed design and local capacity preparation, so the project could benefit from a
      full implementation time. Another effort is to put experience in similar project as an essential
      requirement for appointment of project key staffs, so the problem can be perceived and
      handled at first place. Recruitment of senior consultant on project management at project
      start should be made.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                               - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:*
Indicator                                           Jan-June 2002 July-Dec 2002  Jan-June 2003 July-Dec 2003
Increased efficiency of utilization and equity of
distribution of health personnel
   Districts with documents for HR planning (%)                70             80            80        80
   Number of human resource policies developed               N/A              15            18         24
   Availability of health professionals at
   puskesmas in pilot districts
       Puskesmas without doctors (%)                           11             11            12         11
       Puskesmas without dentists (%)                          49             51            51         54
       Puskesmas with shortage of nurses (%)                   23             23            23         17
       Puskesmas with shortage of midwives (%)                 54             50            47         49
   Specialists in pilot district hospitals as % of
   maximum required number
       Surgeons                                                78             93            89         70
       Internal medicine                                       93             96            93         89
       Pediatrics                                              93            100            89         96
       Ob/Gyn                                                  93            104            96         93
Increase the skills of health professionals
   Accredited training institutions (%)                      N/A            N/A           N/A        100
   Utilization of learning resource centers (all             N/A             154           147         34
   types of visits per month)
Improve the quality of health professionals'
practices
   Districts having a licensing system for health
   officers (%)
       Doctors                                                 95             95            95         95
       Dentists                                                90             90            90         90
       Nurses                                                  95             95           100        100
       Midwives                                               100            100           100        100
   Districts with professional associations (%)
       Nurses                                                N/A            N/A           N/A          95
       Midwives                                              N/A            N/A           N/A         100
       Doctors                                               N/A            N/A           N/A          90
       Dentists                                              N/A            N/A           N/A          65
       Pharmacists                                           N/A            N/A           N/A          60
   Health professionals registered with their
   respective professional organizations
       Number of doctors registered**                        N/A            N/A           N/A         889
       Number of nurses registered**                         N/A            N/A           N/A       5,257
       Number of midwives**                                  N/A            N/A           N/A       2,905
       Doctors registered as % of recorded                   N/A            N/A           N/A         100
       workforce
       Nurses & midwives registered as % of                  N/A            N/A           N/A         118
       recorded workforce
   Health facilities implementing QA                           na             na            na         na
       Puskesmas implementing QA (%)                         N/A            N/A           N/A          80
       Hospitals implementing QA (%)                           55             50            50         40

                                                     - 29 -

       District health offices with QA teams (%)                 70                   88               83         95
   Primary health care utilization (monthly                      44                   55               52         50
   outpatient visit rate to puskesmas, %)
   Hospital utilization (Bed occupancy rate, %)                  52                   45               54         49
Source: Cibulskis (2004).
* Project performance indicators linked to DOs. Data refer to 20 pilot districts only.
**Number of professionals registered as of 04/22/04


Output Indicators:*

Indicator                                           Jan-June 2002 July-Dec 2002       Jan-June 2003 July-Dec 2003
Improve the efficiency of utilization and equity of
distribution of health professionals in project
provinces
   Number of leadership and management                        N/A              19                28           67
   training
   Deployment innovations (DIs)
       Cumulative number of approved                          N/A              N/A              N/A           18
       DI/incentive schemes
       Cumulative number of approved and                      N/A              N/A              N/A           30
       rejected DI proposals
       Number of puskesmas with DIs                            45                47              61           61
Improve the quality of health professional practice
   Health staff receiving QA training                          na                na              na            na
       Puskesmas doctors (%)                                   19                28              36           44
       Puskesmas nurses (%)                                      8               13              11           24
       Puskesmas midwives (%)                                    7               12              14           22
       Cumulative % of puskesmas with at least                 38                61              75           83
       one staff receiving QA training
       Cumulative % of puskesmas with at least                 13                27              36           49
       one doctor, nurse & midwife receiving QA
       training
   Cumulative number of Project fellowships                   N/A              N/A              N/A        3,640
   awarded
Improve the quality of health professional training
   Training using CBT method (%)                              N/A                53              86           99
Build central support for health professionals
   Technical assistance (TA) activities
       Number of planned TA activities                         12                 7
       Planned TA activities realized (%)                        8               86
Project management & support
   Annual budget utilization rate (%)                          54                56
   Planned activities completion rate (%)**                   N/A              N/A              N/A           36
   Project positions filled (%)                               N/A              N/A              N/A          100
Source: Cibulskis (2004).
* Project performance indicators linked to Project components. Data refer to 20 pilot districts only.
**Planned activities completion rate refers to 2002-2003.




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

            Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
            (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                                                 Procurement Method
                                                 ICB            NCB              Other      NBF     Total Cost

1. Works                                             -           3.9               0.6         -           4.5
                                                                (0.4)             (0.0)                  (0.4)
2. Goods
  Equipment/Furniture/Instructional Materials     3.5            2.2               1.0         -           6.7
                                                 (2.2)          (1.3)             (0.5)                  (4.0)
Vehicles                                             -              -                 -     0.6            0.6


3. Services
Overseas Fellowships                                 -              -             11.0         -          11.0
                                                                                 (11.0)                (11.0)
Training/Workshops/In-Country Fellowship             -              -             15.8         -          15.8
                                                                                 (15.8)                (15.8)
Studies and Research                                 -              -              2.8         -           2.8
                                                                                  (2.8)                  (2.8)
Consultant Services                                  -              -              6.6         -           6.6
                                                                                  (6.6)                  (6.6)
4. Miscellaneous
Deployment Innovations                               -              -              3.6         -           3.6
                                                                                  (2.2)                  (2.2)
Project Administration                               -              -              1.9         -           1.9
                                                                                  (1.9)                  (1.9)
Operational Support                                  -              -                 -     2.7            2.7


Total                                             3.5            6.1              43.3      3.2           56.2
                                                 (2.2)          (1.7)            (40.8)                (44.7)


            Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
         (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                                         Procurement Method
                                                   ICB           NCB              Other     NBF      Total Cost

1. Works                                              -           1.50             0.65         -          2.15
                                                      -           0.15             0.06         -          0.22
2. Goods
  Equipment/Furniture/Instructional Materials         -           3.24             1.65         -          4.89
                                                      -           1.93             1.01         -          2.94
Vehicles                                              -              -                 -     0.34          0.34
                                                      -              -                 -        -             -
3. Services
Overseas Fellowships                                  -              -             5.10         -          5.10
                                                      -              -             5.10         -          5.10
Training/Workshops/In-Country Fellowship              -              -            16.03         -         16.03
                                                      -              -            15.06         -         15.06
Studies and Research                                  -              -             2.83         -          2.83
                                                                                   2.83                    2.83
Consultant Services                                   -              -             3.41         -          3.41
                                                      -              -             3.41         -          3.41
4. Miscellaneous
Deployment Innovations                                -              -             0.45         -          0.45
                                                      -              -             0.45         -          0.45




                                                       - 31 -

Project Administration                         -           -     2.71       -     2.71
                                               -           -     2.71       -     2.71
Operational Support                            -           -        -       -        -
                                               -           -        -       -        -


Total                                          -        4.74    32.82    0.34    37.90
                                               -        2.08    30.63       -    32.71


                      Project Costs by Component
                       (US$ million equivalent)




                                                - 32 -

Component                              Appraisal Estimate***            Actual Estimate**             % of Appraisal
                                                          Total                          Total                      Total
I. Province Components                                    (Bank                         (Bank                       (Bank
                                     IBRD      GOI       +Gvt.)     IBRD      GOI       +Gvt.)   IBRD      GOI      +Gvt.)
A. Improve Efficiency of
Utilization & Equity of Distrib. of
Health Prof.

    1. Improve Personnel Planning
    & Management                       6.40       0.50        6.90     2.12       0.25      2.37    33%      49%       34%

   2. Innovations in Staff
   Deployment & Productivity           7.42       2.82    10.24        3.18       0.53      3.70    43%      19%       36%

   Subtotal Improve Effic. of Util.
   & Equity of Dist. of Health Prof.  13.82       3.33       17.15     5.30       0.77      6.07    38%      23%       35%

B. Improve Quality of Health
Professional Practices

    1. Strengthen Regulatory
    System for Health Professionals    1.47       0.18     1.65        0.49       0.00      0.49    33%       0%       30%

   2. Strengthen Professional
   Associations                        1.24       0.48     1.72        1.23       0.07      1.29    99%      14%       75%

   3. Promote Quality Assurance        1.86       0.27     2.12        1.85       0.04      1.89   100%      16%       89%

   Subtotal Improve Quality of
   Health Professional Practices       4.56       0.93        5.49     3.57       0.11      3.68    78%      12%       67%

C. Improve Quality of Health
Professional Training

    1. Improve Training Methods &
    Programs                           8.23       2.37    10.60        5.29       1.03      6.32    64%      43%       60%
   2. Strengthen Training
   Institutions                        8.83       3.23    12.06        2.51       1.72      4.23    28%      53%       35%

   Subtotal Improve Quality of
   Health Professional Training       17.05       5.60       22.66     7.80       2.75     10.55    46%      49%       47%

D. Project Management                  3.13       0.75        3.88     3.69       0.33      4.02   118%      44%      104%


    Subtotal Province Components      38.56      10.61    49.17       20.35       3.96    24.31     53%      37%       49%

II. Central Component

E1. Strengthening Planning
Capacity & Technical Support

    1. Planning Capacity                                               0.50       0.00      0.50

   2. Data Management & Analysis                                       0.00       0.00      0.00

   3. Technical Support                                                1.24       0.25      1.49


   Subtotal Strengthening Planning
   Capacity & Technical Support        2.78       0.45     3.23        1.74       0.25      1.99    63%      56%       62%

E2. Improve the Professional
Environment

    1. Develop Regulation,
    Licensing & Accreditation

   2. Strengthen Professional
   Associations

   Subtotal Professional
   Environment                         1.64       0.29     1.94        1.74       0.25      1.99   106%      86%      103%

F. Project Management                  1.74       0.12     1.86

    Subtotal Central Component         6.16       0.87     7.03

Fellowships                                                           10.62       0.96    11.59

Total BASELINE COSTS
                                                               - 33 -
   Physical Contingencies

   Price Contingencies

*Data obtained through the Completion of Appraisal Document dated Apr. 19 1998
**Data obtained through the Gvt of Indonesia (Hik Mandari) on Dec.7 2004
***Data obtained through the Gvt of Indonesia (Hik Mandari) on Final Appraisal Document on Dec.9 2004




                                                                    - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The PAD identifies the ultimate benefits of the Project as: 1) increased quality of care in a side range of
facilities, including health centers, public hospitals and private practices, as reflected in better diagnosis,
more appropriate treatment and more efficient use of referral, and 2) improved health status of rural and
poor populations through more efficient deployment and utilization of staff for delivering both curative and
preventive services. The economic analysis in the PAD included a cost-benefit analysis providing an
"illustrative rate of return from the project." The Project's costs were based on the expected project
disbursement profile and estimates of the recurrent costs needed to provide Project-supported services over
time. The Project's benefits were identified as: 1) increased proportion of the population using health
services, 2) improved quality (i.e., effectiveness) of specific services, and 3) improvement in the general
quality of services from the regulatory framework, strengthened professional associations and improved
capacity for quality training. In the absence of estimates of the impact of Project investments on health
status, the following assumptions were made:

·        There would be a 5% increase in the use of health services (as the result of Project-induced quality
         improvements), and this would increase the average number of healthy life years in the population
         of the Project area by 1% of the difference between the estimated number of healthy life years per
         1,000 population in the Project area and the estimated number of healthy life years per 1,000
         population in OECD countries (i.e., 117 years)
·        For those using the health system (and as the result of Project-induced quality improvements), the
         Project would increase their healthy life years by 5% of the Project area/OECD country difference
         for nine priority diseases groups that were assumed to be the focus of the Project's training and
         quality assurance activities and by 2.5% of the Project area/OECD country difference for other
         disease groups
·        Each additional healthy life year was valued at US$1,090 (i.e., GDP per capita in 1996)
·        There would be no benefits during the Project's first two years, 25%, 50%, 75% in the third, fourth
         and fifth years of the Project, and 100% thereafter through a 10-year period following project
         completion

Under these assumptions, the estimated benefits in one year from the completed Project are US$ 40 million.
The IRR for the overall Project was estimated to be 45% (99% in Central Java, 28% in South Sulawezi
and 4% in Central Kalimantan). The differences among provinces presumably reflect their different initial
rates of healthcare utilization.

Unfortunately, the absence of baseline and follow-up values of key indicators (for example, baseline and
follow-up measures of actual quality improvement and accurate data on facility utilization both inside and
outside the pilot districts) makes it impossible to re-estimate the Project's IRR or even to assess the
reasonableness of several of the key assumptions used in the original estimates. However, the substantial
delays experienced in project implementation together with the fact that the Project was actually
implemented in only 20 pilot districts (compared to about 70 total districts in the three Project provinces),
suggests that a revised estimate of the IRR would be substantially lower than that reported in the PAD.



                                                      - 35 -

- 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/22/1996                5    TASK TEAM LEADER(1);
                                             TRAINING (2, USAID (1);
                                             TRAINING CONSULTANT
                                             (1)); HEALTH FINANCING (1);
                                             PROJECT MANAGEMENT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/29/1997                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             HEALTH FINANCING
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             TRAINING CONSULTANT
                                             (1); PROJECT
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             PROJECT COSTING (1)

 Supervision
              12/15/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             MISSION LEADER (1);
                                             SECTOR COORDINATOR
                                             (1)
              04/05/1997                2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              03/10/1999                2    TTL, ECONOMIST (1),              S               S
                                             OPERATIONS (1)
              03/27/2000                4    TTL,PUBLIC HEALTH (1);           U               S
                                             OPERATIONS, PUBLIC H. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT,
                                             MANAGEMNT (1);
                                             ECONOMICS, MANAGEMENT
                                             (1)
              09/28/2000                3    TTL, PUBLIC HEALTH (1);          U               S
                                             OPERATIONS,PUBLIC HLTH
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT,
                                             MANAGEMNT (1)
              04/11/2001                2    TTL, PUBLIC HEALTH (1);          U               S
                                             PUBLIC H, OPERATIONS (1)
              10/13/2001                6    TTL, PUBLIC HEALTH (1);          U               S
                                             PUBLIC HLTH (1);HEALTH
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); POLICY
                                             AND PROJECT
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              04/19/2002                4    TASK TEAM LEADER,                S               S
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (1); DEP.
                                             TEAM LEADER PUBLIC



                                              - 37 -

                                              HEALTH HEALTH (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT (1); MIS AND
                                              MONITORING (1)
               11/15/2002                 4   TTL (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST          S    S
                                              (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS (1)
               05/28/2003                 4   TTL, PUBLIC HEALTH (1);             S    S
                                              HEALTH (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT (1)
                                              PROCUREMENT (1)
               10/10/2003                 5   TTL, PUBLIC HEALTH (1),             S    S
                                              HEALTH (1); PROCUREMENT
                                              (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT (1); HEALTH
                                              OPERATIONS (1)
               04/20/2004                 3   TTL, PUBLIC HEALTH (1);             S    U
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              (1); HEALTH OPERATIONS (1)

 ICR
               01/23/2005                1     ECONOMIST (1)                      U    U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation    N/A (LENDING)                             329.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation         N/A (LENDING)                   (above includes
                                                          appraisal/negotiation)
  Supervision                              N/A                            348.8
  ICR                                         1           (above includes ICR)
  Total                                    N/A                            678.7




                                               - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating
  Macro policies                          H      SU      M      N       NA
  Sector Policies                         H      SU      M      N       NA
  Physical                                H      SU      M      N       NA
  Financial                               H      SU      M      N       NA
  Institutional Development               H      SU      M      N       NA
  Environmental                           H      SU      M      N       NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction              H      SU      M      N       NA
           Gender                         H      SU      M      N       NA
           Other (Please specify)         H      SU      M      N       NA
  Private sector development              H      SU      M      N       NA
  Public sector management                H      SU      M      N       NA
  Other (Please specify)                  H      SU      M      N       NA
Project Components (original)

        · Improve Efficiency of Utilization and Equity of Distribution of Health Professionals

                                            · HS    ·S        ·U       ·HU

        · Improve Quality of Health Professionals' Practices

                                            · HS    ·S        ·U       ·HU

        · Improve Quality of Health Professional Training

                                            · HS    ·S        ·U       ·HU

        · Province Project Management

                                            · HS    ·S        ·U       ·HU

        · Build Central Support for Health Professionals

                                            · HS    ·S        ·U       ·HU

        · Central Project Management

                                            · HS    ·S        ·U       ·HU




                                                      - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Cibulskis, Richard (2004). "Report of a consultancy for the Final Evaluation of the HPV Project,"
      Departemen Kesehaten, Jakarta (July).
Dewi, Shita (2004). "Review on Performance Indicators of the Health Project V (1998-2003),"
      Report prepared for the World Bank, Jakarta.
Departemen Kesehaten (2001). "Fifth Health Project: Mid Term Review," Jakarta (September).
PT. Multi Area Conindo in association with PT. Bahana Mitra Buana (2004). "Final Evaluation of
      the Fifth Health Project (IBRD Loan Number 4374 IND): Executive Summary," Jakarta.
World Bank (1998a). "Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$
      44.7 Million to the Republic of Indonesia for a Fifth Health Project: Improving the
      Efficiency and Quality of Provincial Health Services," Report No. 17357 IND (June 16).
World Bank (1998b). "Loan Agreement (Fifth Health Project) between Republic of Indonesia and
      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development," Loan Number 4374 IND (July
      31).
World Bank (2001). "Mid Term Review Mission, September-October 2001," Jakarta.
World Bank (1998-2004). Complete Aide Memoires.
World Bank (1998-2004). Complete Project Status Reports.
World Bank (1999-2005). Amendments to the Loan Agreement.




                                              - 41 -

- 42 -

